

401 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: A Tenuous Legislative Consensus in Minnesota Has Collapsed Over Tax Increases

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; Dan Frosch contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, May 16 

 BODY:
John Berns and John Benson were swept into the Minnesota State Legislature last fall in a midterm election that promised an end to the state's polarized partisan politics. 
 Their adjoining State House districts west of Minneapolis are much alike -- fiscally conservative, socially moderate-to-liberal -- and the two men tended to vote alike too, each crossing party lines to support moderate positions on bread-and-butter issues like education and the environment.
But with the legislative session now in its final days, Mr. Berns, a Republican, and Mr. Benson, a Democrat, say the vaunted rise of the political middle has taken it on the kisser. The legislative consensus, a tenuous bridge of middle-ground Democrats and Republicans, has collapsed over tax increases on the wealthy, college tuition incentives for illegal immigrants and raising the state's gasoline tax.
 ''This whole session is about who can hold onto that pivot vote in the middle, and now no one has it,'' said Lawrence R. Jacobs, the director of the Center for the Study of Politics and Governance at the University of Minnesota. 
 Moderates like Mr. Berns and Mr. Benson have been the losers.
 Mr. Berns frets that by voting with the Republican minority he will be accused in the next election of doing nothing but blocking the way by saying no. Mr. Benson worries that Democratic moderates will be vulnerable to accusations that they were ineffectual bystanders who could not make their voices heard. 
 ''I'm an idealist, like a lot of these liberals,'' said Mr. Benson, a bookish 63-year-old retired social studies teacher who sprinkles his conversation with quotes from Teddy Roosevelt and Will Rogers. ''But I'm also a pragmatist, and I'm interested in actually getting something done, and I don't see the logic, other than political value I suppose, of shoving things under the governor's nose one after another, all of which are going to be vetoed and we can't override.''
 Mr. Berns, a boyish and exuberant 35-year-old lawyer with three children at home under the age of 7, struck an equally wistful note in an interview at his office at the Capitol. ''Why can't we just pare down a little bit and make incremental progress?'' he said. ''I think that taxpayers would accept that.''
 Professor Jacobs said the liberal wing of the Democratic Party, frustrated by years of cuts to social programs that have long defined Minnesota's progressive reputation, went too far too fast after taking control of the House of Representatives last fall, scaring moderate Republicans back into party unity, and bruising moderate Democrats crucial to the majority's success.
 ''The Democrats won a majority but they didn't win a liberal Democratic majority,'' he said. ''They misread the election.''
 And the Democrats' legislative plans for more taxes and spending in turn appear to have bolstered the fortunes of Gov. Tim Pawlenty, a Republican who has brought his party charging back to the political right -- perhaps to fuel ambitions for national office, many people at the Capitol say -- with sweeping vetoes that have dismissed much of the Legislature's work as liberal over-reaching. 
 Mr. Pawlenty, who won a second term in November by only 21,000 votes out of 2.2 million cast, has seen his popularity soar recently, with a 55 percent approval rating earlier this month as he stood up to the Legislature, according to a poll by Minnesota Public Radio.
 The question of who stole Minnesota's political middle deepened this week with a proposal to raise the tax on gasoline. 
 Raising the gas tax, which has been frozen at 20 cents a gallon since 1988, was not a liberal vanguard position, but in fact a centerpiece campaign by many moderates, including Mr. Benson, who promised voters that he would work to improve a long-neglected transportation and transit system that is making commutes into the Twin Cities nightmarish from suburbs like his. And he warned voters that improvement would mean raising gasoline taxes.
 Mr. Berns also promised to work on transportation, which he said ranked among the top issues for his constituents, along with education, health care and property taxes.
 But by the time the votes in the House and Senate were held, many people in the Legislature say the party lines had so hardened that the moderates could end up losing even this fight. The proposal, which passed in both chambers last Monday, would raise the tax by 5 cents a gallon, with as much as 2.5 cents more added on temporarily to pay interest on borrowing for transportation bonds, and would also allow counties to raise sales taxes to pay for transportation improvements.
 Mr. Benson voted yes, Mr. Berns voted no, and Mr. Pawlenty immediately vetoed the whole plan, calling it irresponsible at a time when gas prices are at an all-time high. On Wednesday, he declared at a news conference that his veto would hold. 
 The Democrats are five votes short of a two-thirds majority necessary for an override in the House, and one vote short in the Senate. The Republican moderates who might consider voting for a gas tax increase will stay firmly in camp when the override votes are counted, the governor said.
 Democratic leaders concede that the timing of some of their ideas -- including a plan, also vetoed by Mr. Pawlenty and opposed by Mr. Berns and Mr. Benson, to raise income taxes on families making over $400,000 to pay for property tax relief -- might have struck some people as ill-timed at a moment when the economy is sluggish and the state has surplus money to spend.
 The majority's plan to allow illegal immigrants to pay the same tuition rates as state residents, called the Minnesota Dream Act, similarly foundered when people like Mr. Berns and Mr. Benson opposed it, and the governor threatened a veto.
 But they say that after years of spending cuts by Republicans, Minnesotans voted for change, and a restoration of the things that create the state's reputation for a high quality of life. That means more spending for education, transportation and health care, the party leaders said.
 ''I think what's happened here, at least from my estimation, is that people are sick of word games about how we're going to fund things,'' said the speaker of the House of Representatives, Margaret Anderson Kelliher, Democrat of Minneapolis. ''They know that at the end of the day you need to put real dollars into things that are falling apart.''
 But when gasoline prices are pushing $3.25 a gallon, Ms. Kelliher said, adding another pinch to the pain is a tough sell. Lawmakers in Connecticut and Texas, by contrast, are considering actually suspending their state gas tax for this summer's summer driving season, according to the Tax Foundation, a nonpartisan, nonprofit research group in Washington.
 Meanwhile, in the western suburbs that Mr. Berns and Mr. Benson represent, some residents have been left a bit conflicted too.
 ''I understand the need for the tax, and I agree, but it's frustrating when you're budgeting a certain amount,'' said Abby Forrette, a stay-at-home mother of four who lives in Plymouth, in Mr. Benson's district. Ms. Forrette, who had one child on her hip and another by the hand as she stopped to buy a loaf of bread at a specialty shop in Minnetonka, said, ''It's just too bad the price and the tax are going up at the same time.''
 Many moderates in the Legislature say the defeat of the gas tax bill, if Mr. Pawlenty's veto cannot be overcome by the end of the Legislature's session on Monday, could have profound consequences for Minnesota's economic life, as traffic problems worsen and other cities develop ambitions transportation plans, and on its political life, as hope fades for a broad middle that can support ambitious civic projects.
 ''The governor has set this bar, and that's where he's at, so do you try to find votes to override him? That's really hard to do, frankly,'' said Mr. Berns, the Republican. But not getting the two-thirds over the override also means failure of another sort, he added. ''I think everybody wants to get something done.'' This is the third in a series of articles that are examining state government in Minnesota, one of several states in which Democrats made gains in the November elections.The others are online: 

GRAPHIC: Photos: State Representative John Benson, a Democrat, left, voted for a nickel-a-gallon increase in Minnesota's gasoline tax, and State Representative John Berns, a Republican, voted against it. The governor vetoed the bill. (Photographs by Janet Hostetter for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); VETO (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); TUITION FEES (76%); CHILDREN (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); FUEL TAX (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (53%); LAWYERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (73%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



402 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Cathy Chavkin, Daniel Schmerin

 BODY:
Cathy Anne Chavkin, the daughter of Nancy Chavkin and Peter Chavkin of Pound Ridge, N.Y., is to be married today to Daniel Erlich Schmerin, a son of Dafna Schmerin and Dr. Michael Schmerin of New York. Rabbi Robert Levine is to perform the ceremony at Congregation Rodeph Sholom in New York, with Cantor Ephraim Biran participating. 
 The couple met in their freshman year at the University of Pennsylvania, from which they graduated, she cum laude and he magna cum laude.
The bride, 26, is a corporate relations associate at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, where she works as a liaison between corporations and the museum. She received a master's in contemporary art from Sotheby's Institute of Art in London. 
 Her father is a partner in the law firm of Mintz Levin Cohn Ferris Glovsky and Popeo, and works in the New York office, where he is in charge of the white-collar criminal and corporate investigative practice. Her mother is a teacher at the Bet Torah Nursery School in Mount Kisco, N.Y. 
 The bridegroom, also 26, is a presidential management fellow in Washington in a program designed to attract outstanding graduate students to federal service. He works at the State Department in the Office of Terrorism Finance and Economic Sanctions Policy. He received a master's in European politics and governance with distinction from the London School of Economics and a Master of Science in national security studies with honors from Georgetown. 
 His mother is a history teacher at De La Salle Academy, a middle school in New York for academically gifted students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds. She is also a vice chairwoman of the board of trustees of the American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art. His father is a gastroenterologist in private practice in New York and a clinical assistant professor of medicine at Weill Medical College of Cornell University. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); PAINTING (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); RELIGION (72%); LAWYERS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); HISTORY (69%); GIFTED EDUCATION (67%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); GASTROENTEROLOGY (64%); TERRORISM (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MINTZ LEVIN COHN FERRIS GLOVSKY & POPEO PC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (75%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



403 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Living Larger, and Drawing Fire

BYLINE: By DAN ZEGART

 BODY:
LIKE the many Eskimo words for snow, a multitude of nicknames exist for the oversize houses commonly referred to as McMansions, and they mirror the uneasiness over the spread of the homes.
 ''You hear them called starter castles, beltway baronials, mini Taj Mahals, but my favorite is parachute homes, because of the disregard for local styles -- like they were dropped from the sky,'' said Edward J. Trawinski, a lawyer and land-use expert from Morristown, N.J.
 Although the names may be amusing, many owners of smaller homes, especially in older communities dominated by more traditional architecture, find it anything but funny when one goes up in their neighborhood. With the proliferation of mammoth residences throughout the suburbs of New York City and beyond, some towns are trying to restrict the size and, sometimes, the look of new homes. 
 Mr. Trawinski has helped municipalities in northern New Jersey, including Wayne, Montclair and Bergenfield, write such laws, which commonly set maximums for height and square footage on a sliding scale that varies with the lot size. The laws may also dictate the slope of roofs and require side yards to be large enough so the new home does not loom over its neighbors.
 Such laws draw sharp dividing lines between some residents and builders. The debate is particularly fierce in towns like Westport, Conn., where builders say smallish lots and high land values make tearing down existing homes and replacing them, often with much larger houses, necessary to provide a reasonable profit. 
 ''I live with these regulations all the time, and they're so complicated and so hard to understand,'' said Rick Benson, a Westport resident and builder. ''And now they're not only getting more complicated, they're actually regulating taste.'' He estimated that he had six houses in various stages of completion; two of them were teardowns. All will be much bigger than those they replaced. 
 Mr. Benson said builders respond to market demands and contended that Westport's standards for size were arbitrary. ''I just did a 13,000-square-foot house on six to nine acres smack in the middle of town,'' he said. ''It's massive. It looks like a hotel in the Adirondacks. Not a peep about that one.''
 But the issue of large new houses is so contentious, said Gordon Joseloff, Westport's first selectman, that two previous efforts to pass a home-size ordinance in Westport were voted down. ''The attitude of a lot of people here is, 'You're messing with my nest egg,' '' he said.
 The Town of New Castle, N.Y., is grappling with a similar problem as it pushes ahead with a new law based on floor-area ratio that adjusts the allowable size of a house depending on the lot size. It is an approach sanctioned by courts in several states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, and is based on what Mr. Trawinski called a recognition ''that it's not size per se but the perception of size.''
 ''A big house on a little postage stamp of land just looks terrible,'' he said.
 But the main goal of such ordinances is not to mandate smaller homes, but to preserve a community's ''streetscape'' by preventing houses that are so much larger than the prevailing architecture as to be jarring, said Virginia Kurshan, chairwoman of the Maplewood, N.J., Historic Preservation Commission. 
 At one extreme, she said, nearby Glen Ridge declared the entire borough a historic district, putting tight restrictions on any building allowed. Maplewood, she said, is considering a less drastic law that might apply to new construction and additions.
 Like Maplewood, New Castle has little undeveloped land left, said Frank Annunziata, the town engineer. ''Like a lot of towns that are almost completely built out, we're worried about older, maybe historic houses being knocked down and replaced with something that's inappropriate and much bigger,'' he said. Proposed zoning changes would permit a house of up to 10,391 square feet on four acres; quarter-acre lots would be capped at 4,100 square feet.
 Aesthetics are less of a factor in Sagaponack, near East Hampton, on Long Island, with its expanses of open acreage. Nevertheless, critics have little trouble finding examples for their cause in this newly created village, which is writing its first zoning ordinance. 
 There is the 66,000-square-foot mansion on 63 beachfront acres, for example, or the structure called ''the Great Wall of Sagaponack,'' a sprawling residence protected by a wall more than 100 feet long and 20 feet high. 
 ''We have generally large lots, most at least three acres, but there's still concern over really large houses,'' Mayor Bill Tillotson of Sagaponack said. ''They still stick out.'' 
 Builders argue that large-scale homes are an inevitable result of skyrocketing land values and changes in home-buying habits.
 ''You never used to have 9-, 10-foot ceilings with cathedral space,'' said Stuart R. Koenig, a lawyer and land-use consultant to the New Jersey State League of Municipalities, who estimates that half of New Jersey's towns have tried to regulate housing size. ''And once you do that, if you want to still have living area, you need a bigger building.''
 Mr. Benson, the Westport builder, also said that modern tastes dictate larger houses. ''Older houses have low ceilings and out-of-date kitchens,'' he said. ''People don't want to live in houses built in the '40s, '50s and '60s. So they tear them down.''
 Mr. Benson said he finds ordinances restricting large houses infuriating because they take aim at a problem that is disappearing on its own. ''We've had three years of an economic slowdown, and market conditions and energy costs are causing builders to build smaller houses,'' he said.
 As an example, he cited two houses he built on adjoining lots in Westport: one a 6,500-square-foot home on one and a half acres, which was purchased well before completion, the second a 9,600-square-foot residence on two acres, which took two years to sell. 
 ''I had to keep dropping the price,'' he said. ''It was just too big.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: HOME RULE -- Edward J. Trawinski, above, has helped towns write laws limiting the size of homes. It took two years for Rick Benson, right, a Westport, Conn., builder, to find a buyer for a 9,600- square-foot home, bottom. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Sylwia Kapuscinski for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); ORDINANCES (75%); CITIES (74%); SUBURBS (69%); MOUNTAINS (66%) Housing; Law and Legislation

PERSON: Dan Zegart

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



404 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front ; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1948 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Tackles Big Projects, Including His Image

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 18 

 BODY:
The lunch in the Capitol was in Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo's honor, but that did not mean it was necessarily in friendly territory. 
 His audience, after all, was a roomful of Assembly Democrats, a group that helped unite the state party against him five years ago when he ran a bruising and ultimately unsuccessful race for governor. Some of the older lawmakers who were at the lunch nursed grudges dating to the days when Mr. Cuomo sometimes played the heavy as an aide to his father, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
To win over the crowd, Andrew Cuomo, 49, a longtime fixture on the state's political scene who has only now become an elected official, used a little self-deprecating humor. 
 ''He said to us, 'I've known some of you since I was a bratty, snot-nosed 23-year-old,' '' said Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright of Harlem. ''It went over well. It showed the metamorphosis: He's gone from Andy to Andrew.'' 
 The revival of Mr. Cuomo's political career has been one of the more dramatic changes in state government during a year that has been full of them. After his political obituaries were written, following the doomed campaign for governor in 2002 that alienated much of the state's political class, Mr. Cuomo trained his sights on a lower target and ran for attorney general. 
 With hard work, some fence-mending and a concerted effort to smooth his rough edges, he won. Now, four and a half months into the job, Mr. Cuomo is winning national accolades for exposing what he calls kickbacks in the student loan industry.
 Even political opponents are giving Mr. Cuomo credit for making such a turnaround. ''There's no question that he's off to a very strong start,'' said Michael McKeon, a Republican consultant who worked for Gov. George E. Pataki and, later, for Mr. Cuomo's 2006 opponent, Jeanine F. Pirro, the former Westchester County district attorney. 
 ''One of the key points of our campaign against him was trying to get Andrew to beat Andrew,'' Mr. McKeon said, ''to get under his skin, to egg him on, to try to get him to pop off. And he didn't do it.''
 That discipline and caution remains on display. Mr. Cuomo has for years paid attention to the shaping of his public image, and he still gets on the phone with reporters to give background briefings for even minor news articles. But these days, he is declining to give interviews for this and other profiles. 
 His aides said their strategy was to let the work of the attorney general's office speak for itself. And given Mr. Cuomo's history of off-the-cuff statements -- his observation that Governor Pataki only held the coat of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani after the Sept. 11 attacks overshadowed everything else he said in the 2002 campaign -- outside political consultants said it might be wise for Mr. Cuomo to keep himself buttoned up while he continued to re-establish himself. 
 And he has been doing so at breakneck speed. The inquiry into the $85 billion student loan industry began as a preliminary investigation near the end of Gov. Eliot Spitzer's tenure as attorney general. But Mr. Cuomo expanded it significantly, touching a nerve across the nation. He discovered, among other things, that colleges had been receiving payments from lenders that were seeking business from students, and that financial aid administrators had accepted trips from the lenders.
 Privately, some state officials grumble that Mr. Cuomo can be heavy-handed in pursuing investigations, although his admirers describe him as aggressive. 
 In taking on colleges and loan companies, Mr. Cuomo has found himself in charge of the kind of industrywide investigation that Mr. Spitzer was famous for pursuing. 
 Results have come quickly. Mr. Cuomo negotiated settlements from big lenders and persuaded many of them to agree to a new code of conduct. He won passage of a state law restricting the relationships between lenders and colleges. He testified before Congress about the problem, and the House of Representatives then passed a federal law banning gifts and payments from loan companies to universities. His investigation is continuing.
 Mr. Cuomo's office has moved quickly on a number of other fronts, too. Soon after taking office in January, he forced greater openness in the often secretive world of pork-barrel spending practices in the Legislature. 
 His office won the guilty plea of a state auditor who bilked the state out of funds that were supposed to help mentally ill people and who used the money to buy vintage Corvettes. Mr. Cuomo's staff also set in motion a lawsuit against Exxon Mobil and four other oil companies to force them to clean up a half-century-old oil spill in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.
 The attorney general also is looking into whether Manhattan real estate brokers have pressured appraisers to inflate property values, Bloomberg News reported Friday.
 Mr. Cuomo had insisted that he would not seek to inherit Mr. Spitzer's role as the ''sheriff of Wall Street.'' But a couple of cases this month showed how indelibly his predecessor had made that role part of the attorney general's job. 
 First, Mr. Cuomo and the Securities and Exchange Commission subpoenaed information from Dow Jones regarding a surge in trading in the company's stock and options just before it announced that Rupert Murdoch had made a takeover bid.
 A few days later, an appeals court dismissed some of the claims that Mr. Spitzer had brought against Richard A. Grasso to try to get him to return much of the $190 million he earned as chairman of the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Cuomo has vowed to appeal the ruling, but if it stands, it could increase pressure on him to reach a settlement. That might not sit well with Mr. Spitzer, who took a personal interest in the case.
 But for now, Mr. Cuomo is receiving mostly praise, not only for his results, but also for the staff he has assembled. Michele Hirshman, who was first deputy attorney general under Mr. Spitzer and who stayed on for the first few months of Mr. Cuomo's tenure, said Mr. Cuomo had managed to attract a number of well-respected senior attorneys with a variety of backgrounds. Those who work with Mr. Cuomo say he puts in long hours, accepts advice from his staff and praises them when they get things done.
 Along the way, Mr. Cuomo has grown more popular with the public. A statewide poll last month by Quinnipiac University showed that his job approval ratings had passed those of Mr. Spitzer, whom he had vowed to emulate. 
 One of Mr. Cuomo's campaign themes last year was that Mr. Spitzer was leaving ''big shoes to fill,'' and he hammered it home with ads showing people holding up the metal foot-measuring scales, officially called Brannock Devices, that are used in shoe stores. 
 It has been quite a reversal of fortune for someone who seemed to bottom out a few years ago. In 2002, running behind the eventual nominee, H. Carl McCall, he dropped out of the Democratic race for governor before the primary. 
 Then Mr. Cuomo's marriage to Robert F. Kennedy's daughter Kerry Kennedy Cuomo -- a union of two powerful Democratic families that was sometimes celebrated as Cuomolot -- ended in an ugly, public divorce. Friends say Mr. Cuomo, a father of three girls, was devastated. 
 Years of resentment of Mr. Cuomo -- from those who felt slighted when he worked for his father to the enemies he made when he was the secretary of Housing and Urban Development in the Clinton administration -- seemed to come home to roost.
 Friends and associates say that what followed was a time of introspection for Mr. Cuomo, who was spurred by his personal and professional losses to reassess his priorities. ''Whenyou get knocked to the ground, you've got to be like the Greek god and get up stronger,'' said John Marino, a longtime Cuomo family friend and adviser who led the state Democratic Party when Mario Cuomo was governor. 
 Sheldon Silver, the powerful speaker of the State Assembly, recalled a conversation he had with Andrew Cuomo a couple of years ago, when Mr. Cuomo suggested that he might be interested in running for governor again. 
 ''I indicated to him that he had to change the arrogant ways,'' Mr. Silver said, ''and I indicated to him that he should be setting his sights a little lower.''
 Mr. Cuomo did just that. He reached out to party officials across the state. After dedicating his early life to his father's political career, he suddenly found his and his father's roles reversed: The father, using his charm and contacts, helping his son win election as attorney general. 
 The question some political consultants have is how long Andrew Cuomo's new reputation will last. 
 Many New York Democrats believe that Mr. Cuomo wants to be governor. He has taken pains, however, to show that he is invested in his work as attorney general, and aides and associates say he is fully focused on running his office. But many expect him to run for governor after Mr. Spitzer moves on.
 ''Andrew Cuomo is older, and presumably wiser, than he was when he gained some of his fierce reputation,'' said Norman Adler, a political consultant who has known Mr. Cuomo for decades. ''So, yes, the maturation process is working.'' CUOMO'S INNER CIRCLE Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo has been praised for attracting experienced lawyers and prosecutors to his staff. They include: Barbara D. Underwood Solicitor general Formerly: Counsel to the United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York, based in Brooklyn. Also has been a chief assistant United States attorney and acting solicitor general and principal deputy solicitor general of the United States. Steven M. Cohen Counselor and chief of staff Formerly: Partner at the law firm Cooley Godward Kronish, where he specialized in defending white-collar criminal suspects. Also has worked as a federal prosecutor for the Southern District of New York, based in Manhattan, where he served as chief of the violent gangs unit. Benjamin M. Lawsky Deputy counselor and special assistant Formerly: Federal prosecutor for the Southern District of New York. Also served as chief counsel to Senator Charles E. Schumer and as staff director of the Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts. Leslie G. Leach Deputy attorney general of state counsel Formerly: Administrative judge of the State Supreme Court in Queens. Presided over the Queens Treatment Court, which sentences drug offenders to treatment programs. Eric O. Corngold Executive deputy attorney general for economic justice Formerly: Chief assistant United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York, where he also served as chief of the business and securities fraud and general crimes units. Mylan L. Denerstein Executive deputy attorney general for social justice Formerly: Deputy commissioner for legal affairs at the New York City Fire Department. Previously served in the United States attorney's office for the Southern District of New York, where she was deputy chief of the criminal division. Robin L. Baker Executive deputy attorney general for criminal justice Formerly: Deputy chief of appeals in the United States attorney's office for the Southern District of New York, prosecuting gang, terrorism, organized crime and narcotics cases. Henry M. Greenberg Counsel to the attorney general Formerly: General counsel to the State Health Department, federal prosecutor for the Northern District of New York and law clerk for Judge Judith S. Kaye on the New York Court of Appeals. Blair Horner Special adviser on policy and public integrity Formerly: Legislative director for the New York Public Interest Research Group, the advocacy group. (SOURCE by Attorney general's office) 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew M. Cuomo testifying before Congress last month. (Photo by Andrew Councill for The New York Times)(pg. 26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HISTORY (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%) Attorneys General; Biographical Information

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (94%) Michael Cooper; Andrew M (Atty Gen) Cuomo

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



405 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Housing Plan Turns Disney Grumpy

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: Anaheim, Calif. 

 BODY:
FOR 52 years, the Walt Disney Company has called Disneyland, its Southern California theme park, ''the happiest place on earth.'' 
 But now Disney is angry that the city of Anaheim, where the park is based, has approved plans for 1,500 apartments on a site zoned for tourist facilities.
In February, Disney sued the city, hoping to force it to abandon the decision permitting the project. The development would have 225 subsidized units, and advocates of affordable housing are accusing Disney of turning its back on low-income residents, including many of its own employees. 
 Disney argues that it is simply trying to make Anaheim an attractive place for tourists. In the 1950s, Walt Disney, the company's founder, bought 244 acres in Anaheim, for which he paid about $4,500 an acre. By the time the park opened, in 1955, Disney wished it had bought more. 
 In fact, Disneyland's success spawned thousands of acres of development around the park including some that the company found tacky. The disputes that arose have forced Anaheim to take sides, and it has almost always taken Disney's. 
 But the relationship between Anaheim and its largest employer has become strained over the planned housing, on a 26-acre site that now holds a trailer park. 
 Theresa Medina, an Anaheim resident, was visiting relatives at the trailer park this month. She said that one-bedroom apartments in Anaheim can cost $1,400 a month, and that many landlords won't rent to large families. The prices and the occupancy restrictions cause many workers to commute long distances to Anaheim, she said.
 Lorri Galloway, one of three on the five-member Anaheim City Council who voted in favor of the housing project, said, ''Research shows that we have a need in and around the resort area for 27,000 units of affordable housing.'' By trying to block some of that housing, she said, Disney is showing ''complete disregard for the workers who make the resorts so successful.'' 
 But Rob Doughty, a spokesman for the Disneyland Resort, said the goal was simply to keep housing out of an area zoned for resort development in 1994. 
 Once the special zoning district was created, ''the state and federal governments invested billions of dollars to clean it up,'' Mr. Doughty said. Disney and other companies then began building lavish facilities, including Disney's 745-room Grand Californian Hotel and Spa, which opened in 2001. ''And now they want to throw all that away,'' he said, referring to the City Council. 
 Mr. Doughty added that ''companies like Marriott and Disney and Hilton make their investment decisions on what they assume the zoning is going to be.'' 
 Anaheim's mayor, Curt Pringle, who voted against the housing plan, said he understood the frustration that led Disney to file a lawsuit.
 ''I certainly think they have a legal right to protect their interests,'' Mayor Pringle said, adding that ''no one contemplated that three members of the City Council would turn their back on that engine of economic development within the city.'' 
 The controversy began when the SunCal Companies, a developer based in nearby Irvine, signed a contract to buy 26 acres and announced plans to build 1,300 condominiums and 225 rental units on the site.
 Frank Elfend, a project manager for SunCal, said the idea for affordable housing came about in consultation with the city. ''Whenever you do a big project, you talk to the community about what their needs are,'' he said. ''In Anaheim, the priority was affordable housing.'' 
 SunCal's approach won the support of several members of the City Council. In February, the Council approved the project, leading Disney to file its first lawsuit ever against the city. 
 In late April, at the end of a contentious six-hour public hearing, the City Council voted to reaffirm its support for the housing project, ensuring that the litigation would continue. The vote was 3 to 2. 
 Mayor Pringle, who opposed the new housing, said that Anaheim was building at least as much affordable housing as any other city in Orange County, and that it would build more when it found appropriate sites. The city has recently completed 663 affordable rental units and has another 1,243 under way, according to statistics provided by the mayor.
 Mr. Doughty of Disneyland said that hotels and restaurants, which operate around the clock, are incompatible with permanent housing. ''It doesn't matter that it's low-income housing,'' he said, explaining that Disney objects to any new housing in the resort area. 
 Indeed, the company has recently voiced its objection to another proposed project, called Parc Anaheim, at the edge of the resort area.
 The SunCal site is about a mile from the Magic Kingdom and half a mile from the company's second Anaheim theme park, Disney's California Adventure, which opened in 2001. 
 But it is directly opposite an 88-acre plot on which Disney is considering building a third Anaheim theme park, which is likely to include boutique attractions. (In Orlando, one such attraction, Disney's Discovery Cove, costs $249 a day to enter -- a price that includes a chance to swim with dolphins.) Mr. Doughty confirmed that the third park was a possibility, but said it would probably not be announced this year. 
 Cynthia Ward, an architectural historian who lives in Anaheim, said that ''there is essentially no place left to live in Orange County for people with extremely low-income jobs,'' but that, even so, the resort area should be protected. ''Yes, we need affordable housing,'' she said, ''but it doesn't have to be on that site.'' The median home price in the county last year was more than $600,000. 
 From the 1960s until the 1980s, the area outside Disneyland ''really deteriorated,'' Ms. Ward said. Its rows of cheap hotels and restaurants, she said, ''were tacky and disjointed.'' 
 In the 1990s, Disney actually considered expanding its Southern California theme park operations outside Anaheim. (After learning its lesson in Anaheim, where it failed to buy enough land for its future growth, the company bought more than 25,000 acres in Florida before opening Walt Disney World in 1971.) 
 Instead of building elsewhere, Disney persuaded Anaheim to create the resort area, whose main streets were then turned into idyllic palm-tree-lined corridors leading to the theme parks. ''Sometimes, people who live in Anaheim complain that they're not getting the same street improvements,'' Ms. Ward said. ''But we understand how much money tourism brings.'' 
 To pay for the improvements, the city levied a ''bed tax'' on hotels in the resort area. That tax now brings Anaheim some $80 million a year -- which, when combined with sales and property taxes from the resort, represent more than a third of the city's general fund. The bed tax revenue is expected to increase as more hotels are built, and Mayor Pringle said the city had already borrowed against that anticipated revenue. That, he said, means that a failure to build more hotels in the resort district could cloud the city's economic future.
 Disney's plan to protect its interests has gone beyond suing the city. It has called for a referendum that would allow voters to overturn the City Council's decision. That could come to a vote next February, Mr. Pringle said. 
 And the company is behind a separate voter initiative that would make the resort zoning part of Anaheim's city charter. ''It would lock in permanently the boundaries of the resort area,'' Mr. Doughty said. 
 The voter initiative is being pushed by an organizationcalled SOAR, for Save Our Anaheim Resort. Opponents of the initiative who favor the low-income housing have their own acronym: Yimby, for ''Yes in Mickey's Backyard.'' 
 Mr. Elfend of SunCal called Disney's tactics ''very heavy-handed.''
 ''Historically,'' he said, ''they've had so much power in Anaheim that they think they can control the development of land they don't even own'' 
 But Mr. Doughty said, ''It's not just about this one development -- if one developer is allowed to build residential in the resort area, others will follow.'' 
 Mr. Doughty said that Disney supported the building of affordable housing in other locations. ''Anaheim and Orange County have to address the affordable housing issue, but Anaheim also has to protect the resort area,'' he said. ''It's not an either/or.'' 
 Mayor Pringle believes that someday, the two sides will reconcile. ''We got along well before this, we will get along after this,'' he said of the company and the city. ''This is a disappointing blip, but it's not one that will destroy the relationship forever.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 27, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The National Perspectives article last Sunday, about a plan to build 1,500 apartments on a site in Anaheim, Calif., zoned for tourist facilities, misstated the corporate affiliation of Discovery Cove in Orlando, Fla., which was cited as a boutique attraction of the sort that the Walt Disney Company might decide to add in Anaheim. It is owned by the Anheuser-Busch Companies, not Disney.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DISNEY DILEMMA -- Plans for 1,500 apartments on a 26-acre site that now holds a trailer park were approved by Anaheim. Lorri Galloway, a member of the City Council, below, favors the project. (Photographs by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); ZONING (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); RESORTS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TRAILER PARKS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); MAYORS (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); LITIGATION (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); REFERENDUMS (63%) Housing; Amusement and Theme Parks; Disneyland (Anaheim, Calif); Zoning; Suits and Litigation; Referendums; Housing

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (94%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (94%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (92%)

PERSON: Fred A Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Anaheim (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



406 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 4; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Fifty, Finned and Fabulous

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
Each age is a dream that is dying, or one that is coming to birth,'' the poet Arthur O'Shaughnessy wrote. The year 1957 was just such a time.
 Humphrey Bogart, Laura Ingalls Wilder, Joseph P. McCarthy, Eliot Ness and Louis B. Mayer died that year. Significant 1957 births included Donny Osmond, Katie Couric, Scott Adams, Bill Ford and Osama bin Laden. The future seemed limitless for the United States. Postwar prosperity seemed as though it could go on forever, and Detroit automakers introduced a lineup of new models that seemed as invincible as America.
''I think 1957 was a high-water mark for Ford design; Chrysler as well,'' said Greg Wallace, manager of General Motors' Heritage Center in Sterling Heights, Mich. 
 The enduring popularity, not to mention collectibility, of Chevrolet's 1957 cars ''speaks for itself,'' he said, adding, ''The '57 Chevy was quite simply the best-looking car of the entire postwar era.'' 
 It was a Golden Era, but a fleeting one. It would end before the year was out.
 Fifty years ago, things were very different for the now-beleaguered Ford Motor Company. Ford's 1957 lineup was all new for the first time in five years. The 21 models included a restyled Thunderbird sports car, a new generation of F-100 pickups, the car-based Ranchero pickup and the Fairlane 500 Skyliner -- the first American convertible with a retractable hardtop. Sales were way up -- so much that Ford outsold Chevrolet for the first time since 1935. 
 Together, Ford and Chevrolet accounted for fully half of American car production. 
 The public viewed the Chevys and their General Motors siblings as somewhat dowdy compared with competing 1957 cars. Critics derided the G.M. designs as passe because they were essentially makeovers of the 1955-56 models, with high rooflines, voluptuous fenders, short wheelbases and stubby overall lengths -- the shoebox look favored by G.M.'s styling czar, Harley J. Earl. 
 The future had already arrived at Chrysler. ''Suddenly it's 1960!'' declared ads for Plymouth, which displaced Buick as America's third-best-selling line of cars. New models advertised in Chrysler's Forward Look campaign that were designed by Virgil Exner, the automaker's chief designer, were trumpeted as ''three years ahead of their time.'' They essentially were.
 Chrysler's president, Tex Colbert, was smarting from poor sales of the company's 1956 lineup when he came across the futuristic advance designs for 1959 and '60 models that Exner was working on. Eager for a fresh start, Colbert reportedly told Exner, ''Let's build those'' for 1957. The '57 models that had been in the works were scrapped.
 The 1957 Plymouth, Dodge, De Soto and Chrysler models trumped everything else on the market. For starters, they were five inches lower than the previous year's models. They were also wider. Advertising claims (''longer, lower, wider'') notwithstanding, they weren't really longer than the '56s, but the sleek models looked as if they were. Credit the fins. Exner's '57 designs featured massive steel wings that seemed ready to propel these two-ton creations into the stratosphere. But of greater importance were landmark mechanical innovations like torsion-bar front suspensions, highly reliable three-speed Torqueflite automatic transmissions and Hemi V-8 engines that were power-rich yet fairly economical.
 ''But the real feature of Chrysler's '57 cars was that these cars embodied the future, an optimistic, Eisenhower-prosperity future where people wanted to go, and go quickly,'' Jeffrey I. Godshall, a Chrysler designer, author and automotive historian, wrote in an e-mail message. ''The Forward Look cars indeed looked forward to a futuristic Jetsons' world of high technology and increased leisure time. The perfect world Americans felt entitled to.'' 
 And what was speeding them to that idyllic Tomorrowland? Vehicles like the Chrysler 300C, with its 375-horsepower, 392-cubic-inch Hemi, the industry's most powerful engine at the time. (Horsepower was calculated more liberally back then.)
 By comparison, Ford's 312-cubic-inch V-8 made only 245 horsepower, although an optional supercharged version produced 300. The small-block Chevrolet V-8 had its displacement increased to 283 cubic inches, but base horsepower was just 185. However, for the first time on an American production car, fuel injection was offered. That helped to raise horsepower to 283 -- the first time an American manufacturer had been able to achieve one horsepower for each cubic inch of displacement, the company said. 
 But the fuel injection system was touchy, and dealers didn't know how to work on it. Many dealers replaced the system with a carburetor. The supercharged Ford 312 was gone after just one year.
 The Forward Look cars were also unreliable. They tended to rust quickly and completely. Tire wear could be extreme. The most desirable models were also relatively expensive. The 300C's price was $4,929 ($5,359 for the convertible) -- about $2,000 more than Ford's top-line Skyliner.
 Even the Skyliner would prove too expensive. In its debut year it was not a huge seller; it would struggle through two more years of ever-declining sales before being discontinued. The '57 Ranchero (I have one in my garage) would prove far more enduring, helped by its $1,920 price tag. In excellent condition, a '57 Ranchero today is worth 10 times its original price. 
 Though the 1957 Chevrolets lost the sales battle, they would win the war.
 ''Chevys were so well built they literally outlasted the '57 Fords and Plymouths,'' Mr. Godshall wrote. The longevity of the Chevrolets means that more of them have survived -- by some estimates, up to 10 percent of the 1.5 million sold -- but their values continue to rise despite their numbers. Kelley Blue Book reports that a pristine Bel Air convertible valued at $82,600 is still going up nearly 30 percent a year. 
 But the scarcity of Chryslers, of which possibly less than 1 percent of the 122,273 sold survive, has helped increase values: a 300C convertible jumped from $92,400 in 2006 to $154,580 this year. 
 Ford values, with a few exceptions, have remained flat. A '57 Skyliner is worth about $53,700, close to its value a year ago.
 Given the longer perspective of history, the designs of 1957 seem to have never gone out of style. Never before had form so completely triumphed over function. Still, by the end of the '57 model year, their novelty had worn off, and a deep recession depressed sales of 1958 models.
 ''Indeed, part of the reason 1957 looks so good to us now, is because 1958 was so bad'' Dan Lyons wrote in his book ''Cars of 1957'' (Publications International, 1997). Not insignificantly, in the final weeks of 1957 at least three major world events would shake American confidence: The Russians successfully launched Sputnik; an American effort to put a satellite in orbit blew up on national television as it left the launch pad; and President Eisenhower had a mild stroke.
 ''Suddenly the future wasn't what it used to be,'' Mr. Godshall wrote. ''Fins became first passe, then an embarrassment.''
 Small, economical cars were making a statement; the Volkswagen Beetle and Renault Dauphine were selling well. In 1957, sales of foreign makes in the United States topped one million for the first time. Within three years Detroit would counter with small cars of its own: the Chevrolet Corvair, Plymouth Valiant and Ford Falcon. Function began to throttle form.
 Also that year, a little-noticed Japanese automaker struggled to survive its inauspicious debut in the United States. The company's premier model was an unreliable little sedancalled the Toyopet. Just 288 were sold. The company's name: Toyota. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: FUTURISTIC -- A 1957 Plymouth Fury, hastily redesigned to leap ahead of its rivals.
ICON -- '57 Chevy Bel Air (Photographs from the brochure collection of Steve Hayes)(pg. 1)
BACK TO THE FUTURE -- Clockwise from above, sales brochure for the 1957 Plymouth, Chevrolet Bel Air and Ford Fairlane 500.
 'LET'S BUILD THOSE' -- Chrysler's president pushed 1959 and '60 designs ahead to '57. Clockwise from upper left: Chrysler, Imperial, De Soto, Dodge and Plymouth. (Photographs from the brochure collection of Steve Hayes)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); WRITERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); HISTORY (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%) Automobiles; Sales

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; General Motors Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (56%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%) Jerry Garrett

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



407 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: The Road Best Not Taken

BYLINE: By Gabriel Roth. 
Gabriel Roth, a former transportation economist at the World Bank, is a fellow at the Independent Institute and the editor of ''Street Smart: Competition, Entrepreneurship and the Future of Roads.''

DATELINE: Oakland, Calif. 

 BODY:
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG deserves some credit for proposing that New York follow the example of London and other cities and apply congestion pricing to vehicles entering Manhattan below 86th Street weekdays from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.
 After all, congestion pricing -- a road-use charge levied on certain roads at specific times of the day, presumably those with the most serious congestion when traffic is heaviest -- makes sense. Indeed, it's similar to the peak-period charges paid for electricity and telephone services or the increased charges levied by hotels in high season.
From experience in other cities, we know that congestion pricing can speed traffic, discourage nonessential trips in peak periods, encourage car-pooling, speed up buses and taxis, and attract to the city's roads busy people prepared to spend money to save time. 
 If the fee for entering the congestion pricing zone is what economists describe as ''efficient,'' drivers coming into the city from Long Island, Westchester County and the Connecticut and New Jersey suburbs could reasonably expect reductions in travel times of up to 25 percent. This is because an efficient charge, while attractive to those who consider the time saved worth the money, would be a disincentive to others: enough to reduce overall traffic by 15 percent to 20 percent during peak times. This was London's and Stockholm's experience. 
 But the mayor's proposed $8 charge for cars ($21 for commercial trucks) is too low to make a serious dent in New York traffic. According to the mayor's own transportation report, the proposed charges would reduce traffic volumes in the charged zone by 6.3 percent, and increase traffic speeds by 7.2 percent. Such changes would hardly be noticeable, especially to commuters from outside the zone. 
 In fact, the mayor's plan to cordon off a large swath of Manhattan and charge everyone entering that area the same fee looks more like a commuter tax than congestion pricing. This impression is strengthened by the fact that those who travel only within the zone -- presumably those living in Midtown and Lower Manhattan -- would be charged half the price. 
 It is true that London's charge of about $16 is applied across the board for all vehicles; those driving into the priced zone for 10 minutes pay as much as those, like delivery vehicles, that may be in the zone for 10 hours. But this defect was accepted because London's congestion charge had to be hurriedly introduced to meet a political timetable. New York is under no such pressure and can do better, perhaps emulating Stockholm, where different prices are charged at different times of the day. 
 Mayor Bloomberg promises that all revenue will be dedicated to environmental and mass transportation investments. Since road users would be paying the charges, it is fair to ask why net revenue will not be dedicated to highway improvements, as in Stockholm. For example, couldn't lanes be added to the Long Island Expressway in Queens or a new tunnel opened under Manhattan to connect the expressway to the New Jersey Turnpike?
 The theory that you cannot build your way out of congestion is valid only when road space is provided without the imposition of charges to limit traffic. Once efficient charges are introduced, and surplus revenue earned, it does not seem right to deny road users the better roads they are prepared to pay for.
 While the mayor's courage in even discussing congestion pricing is admirable, it is not clear whether the proposal is about allowing the price mechanism and consumer choice to reduce congestion and expand the road system, or whether it is about taxing road users, including commuters who are not residents (or taxpayers) of New York City, for the benefit of those who use or provide the city's mass transit system. 
 If Mayor Bloomberg is really serious about his proposal, he needs to explain where road pricing will help reduce the amount of time commuters waste each day in traffic; assure those for whom the proposed charges would create hardship that alternatives will exist; develop a more sophisticated pricing system that recognizes that traffic patterns vary by place and time, and identify highway facilities that could be improved when payments by users exceed costs. 
 Above all, he needs to assure those who work in Manhattan but live elsewhere that the payments they make under the plan, which will do little to speed their commutes, will be used to improve New York City streets, intersections, bridges, tunnels, facilities for commercial vehicles and traffic control, not to support other projects that provide them little benefit, however worthy those projects may be to others.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); MAYORS (69%) Roads and Traffic; Tolls; Commuting; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Gabriel Roth

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



408 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PROTOTYPE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Why Work Is Looking More Like a Video Game

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FITZGERALD. 
Michael Fitzgerald is a Boston-area writer on business, technology and culture. E-mail: mfitz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WORK is not play. But maybe it should be.
 In fact, Paul Johnston has remade his company on the idea that business software will work better if it feels like a game. Mr. Johnston is not some awkward adolescent, but the polished president and chief executive of Entellium, which makes software for customer relationship management. Businesses spend billions of dollars on such software to try to track their sales staff, their marketers, their customer service -- anything that connects them with customers. Unfortunately, most of the software is the business equivalent of calorie counting. No one does it gladly. Worse, the software has a Big Brother aspect to it.
''C.R.M. software is designed to let your manager peek at you,'' Mr. Johnston says. He notes that even at Entellium, based in Seattle, he has had trouble getting his sales staff to update their data consistently. Reasoning that sales people are wildly competitive, he thought that they would respond to a program that showed where they stood against their goals -- or their peers'. Hence, Rave, which Entellium introduced in April. 
 Rave adapts a variety of gaming techniques. For instance, you can build a dossier of your clients and sales prospects that includes photographs and lists of their likes, dislikes and buying interests, much like the character descriptions in many video games. Prospects are given ratings, not by how new they are -- common in C.R.M. programs -- but by how likely they are to buy something. All prospects are also tracked on a timeline, another gamelike feature. 
 Rave isn't exactly the business version of Madden N.F.L., at least not yet. But Craig K. Hall, president of Logos Marketing Inc., a graphics company in Albany, said it reminded him of video games he has played, like the Legend of Zelda. Mr. Hall, 31, says he likes the way Rave pops up information, including news that will matter to clients. He also said its use of sales stages and checklists, also borrowed from the way games progress through levels, had helped him rethink the way his company operates. ''They've done a good job of it,'' he said.
 Most people under 35 grew up playing video games. Many still do -- the average age of gamers is over 30 -- and video games have become a mainstream form of entertainment. While ''twitch'' games like Doom or Quake, in which a player has to react quickly, remain popular, there are now huge games run in online virtual worlds. World of Warcraft, for instance, has millions of players around the world who must organize themselves into teams to accomplish complex tasks. In some online games like EVE, these teams are actually called companies, and the politics involved would impress the most cutthroat executive.
 The emergence of these complex role-playing games inspired the formation of Seriosity, which sells e-mail software. A Stanford communications professor, Byron Reeves, was a co-founder of the company in 2004, and, two years later, received $6 million from Alloy Ventures. Mr. Reeves and an Alloy partner, J. Leighton Read, met poolside, and while their daughters practiced their swimming, they discussed whether work would not be better if it were more like a video game.
 Early this year, Seriosity released a beta version of an e-mail add-on called Attent, which is being tested by about a dozen companies, some in the Fortune 500. Attent takes the idea of a virtual currency, common in online games as well as online worlds like Second Life, and applies it to corporate e-mail. Employees assign one another ''Serios,'' the currency in Attent, for ideas, completing tasks and so on, and use them to help distinguish their e-mail from normal corporate spam. Over time, Attent users can gain not only Serios but also badges of excellence for, say, linking engineering and marketing, much as public skills rankings are widely used in online multiplayer games. Others in the company can see the badges, and presumably tap those people for help when they need it. 
 Right now, Attent doesn't look much like a video game, and it will probably never have a dramatic, colorful three-dimensional appearance. But Mr. Reeves noted that virtual economies were key to most online games, and that Attent would help companies assign value to the collaborative aspects of work. ''Right now, we barter our attention and our willingness to attend a meeting, and we barter feedback and credit in collaborative groups, and it's just not very efficient,'' he said.
 Executives may find that software is not the most valuable thing they can get from video gaming. Jane McGonigal, an affiliate researcher and resident game designer at the Institute for the Future, said she had done research that showed the qualitative advantages companies gain when they hire gamers, including an enhanced ability to innovate rapidly and collaborate effectively, even across far-flung regions.
 ''Skills you develop in game worlds solve real-world problems,'' Ms. McGonigal said, adding that 70 corporate executives came to a recent institute gaming event.
 Gamers also tend to be more loyal to their companies and more likely to want to work with others than nongamers, according to research by John C. Beck, a management consultant who runs the North Star Leadership Group, and Mitchell Wade, chief executive of Choice Humanitarian, a nonprofit group that seeks to end poverty in the developing world. Mr. Beck and Mr. Wade were co-authors of the book ''Got Game.'' (The book is out in paperback under the title ''The Kids Are Alright.'') Mr. Beck says children who grow up playing video games typically have to figure the games out for themselves, because adults don't know how to play. 
 That's quite unlike, say, children who play baseball, where the adults tell them what to do. One downside to managing the gaming generation is that it associates ''bosses'' with level bosses, the obstacle in their way to the next level in a game. (Mr. Beck tells managers to avoid this by becoming a strategy guide to their charges, something any gamer can appreciate.) 
 Mr. Beck says he sees a gaming generation gap in companies, but that he expects it to disappear in 10 years or so, as the gamers move up in management. In fact, he says, in the last three years, his reception from chief executives has gone from ''Huh? That's crazy'' to ''Tell me more.''
 OF course, there's already plenty of gaming going on in business (and not just gaming the system). Companies use simulation tools for product development and build games for marketing products, as well as for corporate training or education. Cold Stone Creamery, for instance, has used video games built by Persuasive Games to train ice cream servers and Cisco Systems used Persuasive's games for its engineers. Corporate executives routinely develop skills through role-playing and other strategy games, said Ben Sawyer, co-director of the Serious Games Initiative and head of Digitalmill Inc., a consultant group based in Portland, Me., that works with businesses to carry out gaming strategies. 
 Mr. Sawyer said that companies were beginning to see that they could use video games to develop skills and spread corporate culture through their ranks, even to help individual employees understand how they could contribute to the overall success of the company. He said that companies struggle to manage tens of thousands of people, of varying experience and skill levels, who are often dispersed around the globe. But the developers of games like World of Warcraft have created exactly that kind of environment.
 Nobody knows just how much gaming will ultimately affect business. But it's clear that the game is changing. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Johnston, chief of Entellium, which makes business software based on video-game techniques. One user said Rave, a program Entellium introduced last month, reminded him of playing the Legend of Zelda. (Photo by Stuart Isett for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CUSTOMER SERVICE (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); SALES FORCE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SALES & SELLING (90%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (89%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (74%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (73%); RETAILERS (71%); VIRTUAL REALITY (66%) Retail Stores and Trade; Software; Customer Relations; Computers and the Internet; Sales

ORGANIZATION: Entellium (Co)

PERSON: MICHAEL F JOHNSTON (79%) Michael Fitzgerald

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (53%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



409 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Oil Price 'Gouging': A Phantom Menace?

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE average price of gasoline in the United States set a record last week -- $3.10 a gallon, according to the Energy Information Administration -- up a nickel from the week before and 15 cents from a year ago.
 Like night follows day, politicians in Washington immediately vented their outrage. Standing in front of the Capitol Hill Exxon station on May 9, Democratic lawmakers announced bills to punish ''price gouging'' and the record profits that oil companies earned this year. ''Gas prices and oil company profits are both at record levels, and consumers are left with no way of knowing whether they are being taken for a ride,'' said Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington. 
Ms. Cantwell and others planted themselves at the Capitol Hill Exxon just one year ago, for much the same purpose, and countless other lawmakers have staged similar events over the years whenever gasoline prices have climbed sharply. But if the oil industry is so powerful, why did it let gasoline prices fall through the floor throughout the 1980s and part of the 1990s? 
 For that matter, why did it let gasoline prices fall sharply after they spiked in 2005 and 2006? 
 Many Democrats, and a much smaller number of Republicans, remain convinced that there is a villain. 
 One freshman senator -- Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania -- has introduced bills to tax the ''excess profits'' of oil companies when oil sells for more than $50 a barrel.
 On Wednesday, the Joint Economic Committee will hold a hearing titled ''Breaking Up the Oil Companies'' and ask whether consumers have been harmed by industry megamergers like those of Exxon and Mobil, Chevron and Texaco, or Conoco and Phillips. ''It's just an instinct, but my instinct is that the lack of real competition in different phases of the oil business could be causing longer-term problems,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and chairman of the joint committee.
 On Tuesday, the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on investigations plans a hearing into evidence of possible price gouging and other market manipulation by oil companies. 
 The chairman of that hearing will be Representative Bart Stupak, Democrat of Michigan, who has introduced a bill that would define price gouging as a price that is ''unconscionably excessive'' or that ''indicates the seller is taking unfair advantage of unusual market conditions.''
 Ms. Cantwell, on the Senate side, has introduced a similar bill. But the two bills suffer from vague language that would probably prove agonizingly difficult to enforce. Both bills would instruct federal investigators to look for a ''gross disparity'' between prices before and after a supply emergency, without defining ''gross''; or prices that represent ''unfair leverage or unconscionable means'' by a fuel supplier during an emergency, without defining ''unfair'' or ''unconscionable.'' 
 It goes without saying that gasoline retailers and oil companies will seek to maximize their profit, which usually means charging the highest price markets can bear. 
 But is that price gouging? 
 Because the demand for gasoline is what economists call inelastic, which means that people cannot quickly reduce their consumption when prices rise sharply, abrupt supply shortages lead to steep price increases without any immediate decline in sales.
 The most common reason for such increases in gasoline prices is a steep increase in the price of crude oil. But crude oil prices are set in global markets, and even the biggest American or European oil companies are modest players compared with state-controlled oil companies in the Persian Gulf, Russia and Latin America. 
 Even the mighty Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which defines itself as a competition-limiting cartel, has only a limited grip on world oil prices. OPEC countries watched helplessly as oil prices plunged in the early 1980s and remained mired below $20 a barrel for most years (excluding the time of the Persian Gulf War in 1991) through the mid-1990s. 
 It seems hard to believe today, but world oil prices briefly drifted below $11 a barrel in 1998. Not surprisingly, few lawmakers in Congress took that opportunity to denounce ''unconscionably excessive'' price declines.
 The Federal Trade Commission has been skeptical about accusations of price-gouging on gasoline prices. In 2004, the agency studied price changes in gasoline from 1991 through late 2003. It concluded that about 85 percent of the price variability -- both up and down -- reflected changes in crude oil prices.
 To be sure, this year is different. Crude oil prices are actually a bit lower right now, at the onset of the summer driving season, than they were at this time last year. But gasoline prices are slightly higher than they were a year ago.
 The Energy Information Administration is predicting that crude oil prices will average about $66 a barrel this summer, versus $70 last summer. But it predicts that gasoline will average about $2.95 a gallon this summer, up from an average of $2.84 last summer.
 INDUSTRY executives say the anomaly reflects a temporary drop-off in refinery activity, partly because of scheduled maintenance and partly because of unscheduled interruptions. On top of that come ethanol prices, which have soared, because refiners now blend a small percentage of ethanol into standard gasoline.
 The broader issue is that refinery capacity has not kept up with American demand for gasoline. Oil companies, caught with vast amounts of excess refining capacity in the early 1980s, systematically reduced capacity during the long lean years when energy prices and profit margins were the pity of Wall Street.
 In theory, the allure of fat profits will attract heavy investment in more refinery capacity. And John Felmy, chief economist at the American Petroleum Institute, told reporters last week that oil companies have indeed been investing heavily in recent years.
 But Congress could face an entirely new quandary in its desire to expand the use of renewable fuels. President Bush has called for producing 35 billion gallons a year of alternative fuels -- from cellulosic ethanol to coal-based diesel -- by 2017. Congressional Democrats might be even more aggressive.
 If that's the plan, will oil companies want to invest in more refineries? ''You've got to ask whether the demand will be there,'' Mr. Felmy said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gasoline prices above $3 a gallon are common, but that has not stopped Americans from filling up. (Photo by Seth Perlman/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); ETHICS (74%); EVIDENCE (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Ethics; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (84%)

PERSON: MARIA CANTWELL (79%); BART STUPAK (76%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); BOB CASEY (57%) Edmund L Andrews; Bart (Rep) Stupak; Maria (Sen) Cantwell

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



410 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: The Online Broker, as Your Financial Supermarket

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
ONLINE brokerage firms want your money -- all of it.
 Most of the big online stockbrokers offer basic banking services like check-writing, automatic deposit, online bill payment and even A.T.M. cards.
Now some companies are pulling out all the stops to convince customers to combine all their financial accounts with them, instead of keeping money at an assortment of institutions. 
 First, Bank of America announced last fall that customers with at least $25,000 in traditional bank accounts -- like checking, savings, money markets and certificates of deposit -- could trade stocks free on the company's brokerage Web site. 
 Now some online brokers have sharply raised the interest rates they pay on checking accounts. In March, E*Trade Financial, based in New York, raised its top rate for checking to 3.25 percent from 0.8 percent. In late April, Charles Schwab bolstered its top checking rate to 4.25 percent, from 2.58 percent.
 Consumers have often preferred choosing their financial services a la carte -- picking an interest-bearing checking account here, and a stock-trading site there. But financial services companies clearly have something else in mind.
 Bill Doyle, an analyst at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., sees much similarity among all these incentives. He said the companies were using their lesser-known products and services essentially as loss leaders. 
 In Schwab's case, Mr. Doyle said, the recent move was also a sign that the company was ''back on track'' after losing its way earlier in the decade. ''Schwab's fees began to creep up,'' Mr. Doyle said. ''But now it is rediscovering its roots as a low-cost investing firm.''
 Indeed, Charles R. Schwab, the founder of the company, says he wants to focus on lower, more transparent fees in order to attract younger investors. Mr. Schwab, who will turn 70 this summer, defines younger investors as ranging in age up to their early 40s.
 ''I think we sinned during the explosion of the Internet in 2000 to 2003, by imposing all of these minimum fees on accounts,'' Mr. Schwab said. ''That sort of gave the message to the younger investor that they weren't desirable here.''
 For example, before Schwab raised the interest rate on its checking account last month, a customer needed to have at least $100,000 in the checking account to qualify for the 2.58 percent rate; a customer with less than $100,000 in checking earned 0.96 percent. Now all that customers need to do to qualify for the 4.25 percent rate is to link their checking accounts with their Schwab brokerage accounts. They don't need to keep a minimum balance in either.
 Schwab, based in San Francisco, is perhaps best known for its online brokerage accounts. But four years ago it created the Charles Schwab Bank, a subsidiary offering checking and deposit accounts, as well as common bank loans like mortgages and home equity lines.
 Fidelity Investments, based in Boston, does not own a bank, but it does allow its customers to write checks against their ''core'' accounts, where their money goes whenever they sell stocks or mutual funds, for example. 
 Fidelity customers have a few choices for their core accounts. They can select a municipal money market account, which has certain tax advantages and an interest rate of around 3.5 percent. Or they can select a cash account, with interest rates ranging from 3.2 percent for accounts with balances under $10,000 to 3.7 percent for balances of at least $100,000. In retirement accounts, cash may be swept into a cash account that is currently yielding 4.97 percent. 
 Investors at TD Ameritrade, a subsidiary of the Toronto-Dominion Bank, can write checks against their cash accounts, which have interest rates ranging from 0.1 percent for accounts with less than $5,000 to 2.9 percent for accounts with at least $200,000.
 All of these online brokers also provide customers with cards that provide access to automatic teller machines. Schwab and E*Trade go so far as to rebate fees that other companies charge their customers for using A.T.M.'s. Fidelity rebates such fees, too, but only for customers who either have over $500,000 in household assets at Fidelity or who trade more than 120 times a year.
 Mr. Doyle said now that both E*Trade and Schwab were offering much better interest rates on their checking accounts, he would not be surprised if some other big brokers moved to match some elements of their offers -- for example, by reimbursing more A.T.M. fees. But he doubted that many traditional banks would match Schwab's new 4.25 percent interest rate for checking with no minimum balance. ''They couldn't afford to bring their interest rates up to that level. It would kill them,'' he said.
 Consumers should think carefully before combining their financial accounts with one company, said Barbara Roper, the director of investor protection at the Consumer Federation of America, a consumer advocacy group based in Washington. She said the flip side to the convenience may be a decrease in investor privacy and data security.
 FIRST, she pointed out that if a hacker broke into a company's computers, ''then potentially they will know all of your sensitive information.'' She also said that people who combine their checking and brokerage accounts with one company should be prepared for ''cross-selling,'' the industry's term for marketing many different financial products and services to customers.
 She advised customers to shop around before buying additional financial products, like mortgages and certificates of deposit, and not just to accept the rate at a company where they already have an account. ''Mortgages are a great example,'' she said, ''because the difference in cost over the life of a mortgage can be truly astronomical.'' 
 Mr. Schwab said he hoped to sell more bank products to his brokerage customers. Rather than ''cross-selling,'' he said, ''I like to use the word 'cross-servicing.' If one of our customers needs a mortgage,'' he said, ''I want to give it to them.'' 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Phil Marden) Chart: ''One-Stop Banking'' In an effort to convince customers to link traditional banking accounts to their stock portfolios, financial companies are lowering stock trading costs, increasing interest rates on checking accounts and offerring rebates for charges by other companies for access to A.T.M.'s. FINANCIAL COMPANY: Charles Schwab CHECKING ACCOUNT INTEREST RATE*: 4.25% ONLINE STOCK TRADING COSTS: $9.95 to $12.95 REBATES FEES FOR OUT-OF-NETWORK A.T.M.'S: Yes FINANCIAL COMPANY: Fidelity CHECKING ACCOUNT INTEREST RATE*: up to 3.7% ONLINE STOCK TRADING COSTS: $8.00 to $19.95 REBATES FEES FOR OUT-OF-NETWORK A.T.M.'S: Yes FINANCIAL COMPANY: E*Trade CHECKING ACCOUNT INTEREST RATE*: up to 3.25% ONLINE STOCK TRADING COSTS: $6.99 to $12.99 REBATES FEES FOR OUT-OF-NETWORK A.T.M.'S: Yes FINANCIAL COMPANY: TD Ameritrade CHECKING ACCOUNT INTEREST RATE*: up to 2.9% ONLINE STOCK TRADING COSTS: $9.99 REBATES FEES FOR OUT-OF-NETWORK A.T.M.'S: No FINANCIAL COMPANY: Bank of America CHECKING ACCOUNT INTEREST RATE*: up to 3.0% ONLINE STOCK TRADING COSTS: Free to $14.00 REBATES FEES FOR OUT-OF-NETWORK A.T.M.'S: No *With a minimum balance or linked to brokerage account. Various conditions apply. Fidelity rebates these for customers with at least $500,000 in household assets
 Schwab and E*Trade have no minimum for rebates. (Source by the companies) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE TRADING (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (90%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SECURITIES BROKERS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (77%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BONDS (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (70%) Stocks and Bonds; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); E TRADE FINANCIAL CORP (56%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); SCHW (NYSE) (58%); ETFC (NASDAQ) (56%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: CHARLES R SCHWAB (79%) J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



411 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION: HARD KNOCKS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Down, but Maybe Not Out

BYLINE: By SAM TANENHAUS

 BODY:
WITH the death on Tuesday of the Rev. Jerry Falwell, the Baptist minister and founder of the Moral Majority, and the announcement on Thursday that Paul D. Wolfowitz would resign from the presidency of the World Bank, two major figures in the modern conservative movement exited the political stage. To many, this is the latest evidence that the conservative movement, which has dominated politics during the last quarter century, is finished.
 But conservatives have heard this before, and have yet to give in. Weeks after Barry Goldwater suffered a humiliating defeat in 1964 to Lyndon B. Johnson, his supporters organized the American Conservative Union to take on the Republican Party establishment. After failing to unseat Gerald Ford for the Republican nomination in 1976, Ronald Reagan positioned himself for the 1980 election. The conservatives dismayed by the election of Bill Clinton spent the next eight years attacking him at every opportunity. And after failing to impeach Mr. Clinton, House Republicans far from retreating into caution or self-doubt, kept up the pressure and turned the 2000 election into a referendum on Mr. Clinton's character. 
What accounts for this resilience -- or stubbornness? 
 For one thing, since its beginnings in the 1950s, conservatism has been an insurgent movement fought on many fronts -- cultural, moral and philosophical. Leaders on the right, as well as the rank and file, have always believed that defeats were inevitable and the odds often long. 
 Consider the careers, or cases, of Mr. Falwell and Mr. Wolfowitz . That the two were polar opposites in almost every way says a good deal about the movement they served -- for one thing about its ability in its formative years, the 1970s and 80s, to make room for a constellation of agendas. 
 Mr. Falwell, a bootlegger's son who disapproved of Martin Luther King Jr.'s civil rights activism because ''preachers are not called to be politicians, but soul-winners'' changed his mind amid the ''secular'' excesses of the 1960s and went on to found Moral Majority Inc. The organization mobilized the Christian right into a political force that eventually helped elect Ronald Reagan in 1980 and also established the Republican Party as the home of politically active Christian evangelicals.
 Mr. Wolfowitz was not a ''movement conservative.'' He did not inveigh against the sins of ''secular liberalism'' or homosexuals and the American Civil Liberties Union.
 But like Mr. Falwell, he came to politics in the 1970s, when the conservative insurgency was reaching its apex and new ideological lines were emerging. Mr. Wolfowitz, from a family of immigrant Jews from Poland, was a brilliant student whose teachers included three neoconservative giants -- Allan Bloom, Leo Strauss and Albert Wohlstetter. He felt out of place on the Yale faculty and discovered his metier as a military strategist in the Ford Administration. In his first major assignment he joined a team of analysts who drew up a dire, and some said, exaggerated analysis of Soviet military strength. 
 The report clashed with intelligence assessments, presaging Mr. Wolfowitz's clash with intelligence experts in the months leading up to the Iraq invasion. 
 During this period, the ideas espoused by Mr. Falwell and Mr. Wolfowitz, though both were valued on the right, did not mesh; they were unconnected, spokes in the large conservative wheel. And so they remained during the first months of George W. Bush's administration. 
 But after 9/11, neoconservatives and evangelicals found common cause in their shared belief in American exceptionalism and in the idea that the country's values could be exported abroad. Mr. Bush was receptive to the synthesis, and it became the ideological centerpiece of the war on terror, with its stated mission to combat the ''axis of evil'' in a global ''war on terror.'' 
 Today, of course, this vision, has been widely repudiated, if not altogether discredited. The public has grown skeptical, or maybe just tired, of the hard-edged and often polarizing politics. And this change coincides with broad-based skepticism of the Bush presidency itself -- as witnessed by Mr. Bush's and his party's perilously low approval ratings. The G.O.P.'s embrace of the conservative movement is beginning, some say, to resemble a death grip.
 But there have been no signs of atonement within the movement. Mr. Falwell, who notoriously suggested that the Sept. 11 attacks reflected God's judgment of ''the pagans, and the abortionists, and the feminists, and the gays and the lesbians,'' said last September that he hoped Hillary Clinton was running for president because she would outdo ''Lucifer'' in energizing his constituents. 
 Then there is Mr. Wolfowitz. The figure he is often compared to is, of course, Robert McNamara, the former defense secretary in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, who like him had been a brutal infighter at the Pentagon, as he helped engineer a disastrous war. When Mr. McNamara left to head the World Bank, he seemed stricken by his failure in Vietnam and approached his new position with ''a touch of penance,'' as David Halberstam wrote in ''The Best and the Brightest.'' 
 Not Mr. Wolfowitz. Apparently unchastened by the Iraq disaster -- though he was its intellectual architect -- he simply carried his mission to a new venue, ''adopting a single-minded position on certain matters, refusing to entertain alternative views, marginalizing dissenters,'' as Steven R. Weisman reported in The Times. 
 These differences aren't surprising. Mr. McNamara was a technician, an efficiency expert and systems manager unattached to any political ideology. He viewed Vietnam as a problem, not a cause. Whereas for Mr. Wolfowitz, Iraq was a fixation -- as indeed it has been, and remains, for the principal figures in the Bush administration, who are still deeply committed conservatives.
 George Bush himself is, after all, the first president who came of age while the conservative movement was in full force, and it continues to guide him, just as it continues to guide members of the Republican base who still back the administration and who are almost certain to choose the party's next nominee. 
 These views, of course, are sharply at odds with public opinion. The unpopularity of the Iraq war is nearing Vietnam proportions, and President Bush's plummeting poll numbers resemble those of Mr. McNamara's boss, Lyndon B. Johnson. 
 Meanwhile, the conservative movement finds itself in a new place. No longer insurgents, its leaders now form an entrenched establishment, just like the liberals and moderates they defeated a generation ago. But if Mr. Wolfowitz's brief tenure at the World Bank is any indication, they are a long way from feeling chastened. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 27, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in the Week in Review section on Sunday about the conservative movement misstated the outcome of impeachment proceedings in 1998 against President Clinton, whose character conservatives made the focus of the 2000 election. The House of Representatives did indeed impeach him. (The Senate did not convict him of the impeachment charges.)
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the conservative movement misstated the outcome of impeachment proceedings in 1998 against President Clinton, whose character conservatives made the focus of the 2000 election. The House of Representatives did indeed impeach him. (The Senate did not convict him of the impeachment charges.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Forward, March -- Paul Wolfowitz, a case study for conservatives. (Photo by Tim Sloan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. 14) Drawing (Drawing by Stephen Doyle)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); CONSERVATISM (92%); POLITICS (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); REFERENDUMS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); CHURCH & STATE (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%) United States Politics and Government; Christians and Christianity; Conservatism (US Politics); Evangelical Movement; Baptist Churches; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CONSERVATIVE UNION (57%) Moral Majority; World Bank

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (69%) Sam Tanenhaus; Jerry (Rev) Falwell; Paul D Wolfowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



412 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Paperback Row; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 804 words

BYLINE: By Ihsan Taylor

 BODY:
 GUESTS OF THE AYATOLLAH: The First Battle in America's War With Militant Islam, by Mark Bowden. (Grove, $15.) In ''Black Hawk Down,'' Bowden recounted the fiasco that led to the death of 18 Army Rangers in Somalia in 1993. Here he reconstructs in minute detail the seizure of the American Embassy in Tehran in 1979, and the 444-day ordeal that followed. Bowden includes thumbnail sketches of the participants -- from the hostages and their student captors to the aggressive new military unit called Delta Force -- and a heart-stopping account of Desert One, President Jimmy Carter's near-suicidal rescue operation. Our reviewer, James Traub, called ''Guests of the Ayatollah'' a story of ''mutual incomprehension'' and a ''case study in how ordinary men and women cope with the stupefying tedium, the rage and the gnawing despair, of long confinement.'' THE GOOD LIFE, by Jay McInerney. 
(Vintage Contemporaries, $14.95.) The bubble has burst for the trendy New York yuppies whose long coming-of-age he described in ''Bright Lights, Big City'' (1984), ''Brightness Falls'' (1992) and ''The Last of the Savages'' (1996). In McInerney's latest novel, the Sept. 11 attacks propel his two central characters, Corrine and Luke, into a re-examination of their marriages, their careers and their dreams. BEFORE THE DAWN: Recovering the Lost History of Our Ancestors, by Nicholas Wade. (Penguin, $15.) Charting the recently compiled genetic evidence for the evolution and history of our species, Wade, a science reporter for The New York Times, explains how historical milestones -- the origin of agriculture, the branching of languages -- are recorded in DNA. THE HARD WAY, by Lee Child. (Dell, $7.99.) In Child's 10th Jack Reacher thriller, his hero, an ex-Army cop who lives under the establishment's radar, is recruited to find the kidnapped wife and stepchild of a desperate man with a shady military history. THE MOST FAMOUS MAN IN AMERICA: The Biography of Henry Ward Beecher, by Debby Applegate. (Three Leaves/Doubleday, $16.95.) From the 1840s to the 1870s, Henry Ward Beecher (1813-87), the younger brother of Harriet Beecher Stowe, enthralled audiences with an emotional ''gospel of love'' that challenged the sober Calvinism on which most American Protestants had been raised. Applegate's Pulitzer Prize-winning biography examines Beecher's outsize image (he also lent his prestige to the causes of abolition and woman suffrage) and the accusations of adultery that branded him forever. In the Book Review, Michael Kazin said Applegate ''tells this grand story with aplomb, intelligence and a sure feel for historical context.'' THE GIRLS, by Lori Lansens. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $13.99.) Lansens's engagingly perverse second novel tells the story of Rose and Ruby Darlen, 29-year-old conjoined twins attached at the head. In alternating chapters the women recall their lives in a small Canadian town, where they both are and aren't a continual spectacle. '' 'The Girls' glides by like a watercolor dream, finding its poetry in dailiness and the universalities of human desire and connection,'' Stacey D'Erasmo wrote in the Book Review. RICHARD HOFSTADTER: An Intellectual Biography, by David S. Brown. (University of Chicago, $17.) Richard Hofstadter (1916-70), the author of such enduring works as ''The American Political Tradition'' and ''The Age of Reform,'' was one of the country's most renowned historians. This stimulating biography, which Brown describes as ''an extended conversation'' with Hofstadter's writings, situates the work in the context of Hofstadter's short life and also within the extensive tumult of his period. BRIEF ENCOUNTERS WITH CHE GUEVARA: Stories, by Ben Fountain. (Ecco/Harper Perennial, $13.95.) A fundamental dilemma -- the inability of well-meaning Americans to personally redress global wrongs -- lies at the heart of Fountain's exceptional story collection, set in Haiti, Myanmar and other far-flung places. In a typically ill-fated scheme, one of his characters, a demoralized aid worker in Sierra Leone, sets up a sewing co-op for women who have lost arms in the savage ''chopping'' campaigns of their country's civil war. As her funding dries up, she undertakes a diamond-smuggling run to save the project. ''Each of these eight stories is as rich as a novel,'' Liesl Schillinger wrote here; they are ''heartbreaking, absurd, deftly drawn.'' THE DISPOSABLE AMERICAN: Layoffs and Their Consequences, by Louis Uchitelle. (Vintage, $14.95.) Uchitelle, an economics reporter for The New York Times, looks at the numerous costs associated with large-scale layoffs that are not measured by their effects on a corporation's bottom line, and debunks the claim that downsizing is a necessary step to make companies more productive, more competitive, more flexible. Ihsan Taylor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ARMIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (87%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (85%); HISTORY (78%); TERRORISM (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (75%); CELEBRITIES (71%); CASE STUDIES (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); MARRIAGE (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%); DNA (68%); EVOLUTION THEORY (63%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS (58%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



413 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: The Road Best Not Taken

BYLINE: By Gabriel Roth. 
Gabriel Roth, a former transportation economist at the World Bank, is a fellow at the Independent Institute and the editor of ''Street Smart: Competition, Entrepreneurship and the Future of Roads.''

DATELINE: OAKLAND, CALIF. 

 BODY:
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG deserves some credit for proposing that New York follow the example of London and other cities and apply congestion pricing to vehicles entering Manhattan below 86th Street weekdays from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.
 After all, congestion pricing -- a road-use charge levied on certain roads at specific times of the day, presumably those with the most serious congestion when traffic is heaviest -- makes sense. Indeed, it's similar to the peak-period charges paid for electricity and telephone services or the increased charges levied by hotels in high season.
From experience in other cities, we know that congestion pricing can speed traffic, discourage nonessential trips in peak periods, encourage car-pooling, speed up buses and taxis, and attract to the city's roads busy people prepared to spend money to save time. 
 If the fee for entering the congestion pricing zone is what economists describe as ''efficient,'' drivers coming into the city from Long Island, Westchester County and the Connecticut and New Jersey suburbs could reasonably expect reductions in travel times of up to 25 percent. This is because an efficient charge, while attractive to those who consider the time saved worth the money, would be a disincentive to others: enough to reduce overall traffic by 15 percent to 20 percent during peak times. This was London's and Stockholm's experience. 
 But the mayor's proposed $8 charge for cars ($21 for commercial trucks) is too low to make a serious dent in New York traffic. According to the mayor's own transportation report, the proposed charges would reduce traffic volumes in the charged zone by 6.3 percent, and increase traffic speeds by 7.2 percent. Such changes would hardly be noticeable, especially to commuters from outside the zone. 
 In fact, the mayor's plan to cordon off a large swath of Manhattan and charge everyone entering that area the same fee looks more like a commuter tax than congestion pricing. This impression is strengthened by the fact that those who travel only within the zone -- presumably those living in Midtown and Lower Manhattan -- would be charged half the price. 
 It is true that London's charge of about $16 is applied across the board for all vehicles; those driving into the priced zone for 10 minutes pay as much as those, like delivery vehicles, that may be in the zone for 10 hours. But this defect was accepted because London's congestion charge had to be hurriedly introduced to meet a political timetable. New York is under no such pressure and can do better, perhaps emulating Stockholm, where different prices are charged at different times of the day. 
 Mayor Bloomberg promises that all revenue will be dedicated to environmental and mass transportation investments. Since road users would be paying the charges, it is fair to ask why net revenue will not be dedicated to highway improvements, as in Stockholm. For example, couldn't lanes be added to the Long Island Expressway in Queens or a new tunnel opened under Manhattan to connect the expressway to the New Jersey Turnpike?
 The theory that you cannot build your way out of congestion is valid only when road space is provided without the imposition of charges to limit traffic. Once efficient charges are introduced, and surplus revenue earned, it does not seem right to deny road users the better roads they are prepared to pay for.
 While the mayor's courage in even discussing congestion pricing is admirable, it is not clear whether the proposal is about allowing the price mechanism and consumer choice to reduce congestion and expand the road system, or whether it is about taxing road users, including commuters who are not residents (or taxpayers) of New York City, for the benefit of those who use or provide the city's mass transit system. 
 If Mayor Bloomberg is really serious about his proposal, he needs to explain where road pricing will help reduce the amount of time commuters waste each day in traffic; assure those for whom the proposed charges would create hardship that alternatives will exist; develop a more sophisticated pricing system that recognizes that traffic patterns vary by place and time, and identify highway facilities that could be improved when payments by users exceed costs. 
 Above all, he needs to assure those who work in Manhattan but live elsewhere that the payments they make under the plan, which will do little to speed their commutes, will be used to improve New York City streets, intersections, bridges, tunnels, facilities for commercial vehicles and traffic control, not to support other projects that provide them little benefit, however worthy those projects may be to others.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); MAYORS (69%) Roads and Traffic; Tolls; Commuting; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Gabriel Roth

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



414 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Don't Let a Good Program Die

 BODY:
The job of acquiring New Jersey's few remaining acres of undeveloped land cannot wait until Trenton straightens out the state's fiscal mess. That is why it is urgent that the Legislature authorize a voter referendum to continue a successful 10-year-old program begun in the Whitman administration to protect open land from development. 
 Anyone who has driven the state's back roads and seen the proliferation of new housing needs no reminding that there is little undeveloped land left. Recent studies indicate that at the present rate of development the state could run out of any land suitable for preservation in less than 40 years.
A measure before the Legislature would ask voters whether they wish to allocate $175 million a year for the next 10 years to continue a bonding program for financing the Garden State Preservation Trust. The money, which would also allow the state to buy homes in flood plains, would come from the state's growing sales tax revenues. 
 The measure must be approved by both the State Senate and the Assembly before they recess for the summer if it is to appear on the ballot this November. Left to their own devices, legislators would probably pass the measure overwhelmingly since the land purchase program has consistently won popular support from New Jersey voters. 
 But Gov. Jon Corzine has raised an objection, which on the surface seems persuasive. He wants to postpone action until his forthcoming plan is enacted to straighten out the state's finances, probably by leasing major assets like the turnpike. Mr.Corzine would use the popular land purchase funding as a sweetener to entice reluctant legislators to support the controversial leasing program. 
 The problem is that no one knows how long it will take Mr. Corzine to win approval of his leasing program, which has not even been officially proposed. Unless the open space funding goes to voters this fall, the program could be delayed for a year or two or more. Meanwhile, the program is running dry and, unless it is replenished, developers will continue gobbling up valuable land. The administration has offered stopgap funding but it isn't enough.
 Ironically, the prospect of an interruption in the land purchasing program comes at a particularly advantageous moment to buy open space. Because of the housing slump, conservationists say, developers are more amenable than before to accepting reasonable prices from public entities interested in buying land solely to preserve it. 
 When the housing slump ends, as all economists believe it will, the price of land will rise, and New Jersey once again will have lost an opportunity to preserve land at an affordable price. It should also be kept in mind that the $175 million a year price tag for the land acquisition proposal is a pittance in comparison to Mr. Corzine's proposed $33.3 billion state budget. 
 For all these reasons, the Legislature must approve this land acquisition measure before recessing for the summer. When it comes to preserving open land in this most developed state in the nation, there will be no tomorrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEASING INDUSTRY (88%); APPROVALS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SALES TAX (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Editorials; Law and Legislation; Referendums; Finances; Land Use Policies

ORGANIZATION: Garden State Preservation Trust

PERSON: JON CORZINE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



415 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: The Road Best Not Taken

BYLINE: By Gabriel Roth. 
Gabriel Roth, a former transportation economist at the World Bank, is a fellow at the Independent Institute and the editor of ''Street Smart: Competition, Entrepreneurship and the Future of Roads.''

DATELINE: OAKLAND, CALIF. 

 BODY:
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG deserves some credit for proposing that New York follow the example of London and other cities and apply congestion pricing to vehicles entering Manhattan below 86th Street weekdays from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.
 After all, congestion pricing -- a road-use charge levied on certain roads at specific times of the day, presumably those with the most serious congestion when traffic is heaviest -- makes sense. Indeed, it's similar to the peak-period charges paid for electricity and telephone services or the increased charges levied by hotels in high season.
From experience in other cities, we know that congestion pricing can speed traffic, discourage nonessential trips in peak periods, encourage car-pooling, speed up buses and taxis, and attract to the city's roads busy people prepared to spend money to save time. 
 If the fee for entering the congestion pricing zone is what economists describe as ''efficient,'' drivers coming into the city from Long Island, Westchester County and the Connecticut and New Jersey suburbs could reasonably expect reductions in travel times of up to 25 percent. This is because an efficient charge, while attractive to those who consider the time saved worth the money, would be a disincentive to others: enough to reduce overall traffic by 15 percent to 20 percent during peak times. This was London's and Stockholm's experience. 
 But the mayor's proposed $8 charge for cars ($21 for commercial trucks) is too low to make a serious dent in New York traffic. According to the mayor's own transportation report, the proposed charges would reduce traffic volumes in the charged zone by 6.3 percent, and increase traffic speeds by 7.2 percent. Such changes would hardly be noticeable, especially to commuters from outside the zone. 
 In fact, the mayor's plan to cordon off a large swath of Manhattan and charge everyone entering that area the same fee looks more like a commuter tax than congestion pricing. This impression is strengthened by the fact that those who travel only within the zone -- presumably those living in Midtown and Lower Manhattan -- would be charged half the price. 
 It is true that London's charge of about $16 is applied across the board for all vehicles; those driving into the priced zone for 10 minutes pay as much as those, like delivery vehicles, that may be in the zone for 10 hours. But this defect was accepted because London's congestion charge had to be hurriedly introduced to meet a political timetable. New York is under no such pressure and can do better, perhaps emulating Stockholm, where different prices are charged at different times of the day. 
 Mayor Bloomberg promises that all revenue will be dedicated to environmental and mass transportation investments. Since road users would be paying the charges, it is fair to ask why net revenue will not be dedicated to highway improvements, as in Stockholm. For example, couldn't lanes be added to the Long Island Expressway in Queens or a new tunnel opened under Manhattan to connect the expressway to the New Jersey Turnpike?
 The theory that you cannot build your way out of congestion is valid only when road space is provided without the imposition of charges to limit traffic. Once efficient charges are introduced, and surplus revenue earned, it does not seem right to deny road users the better roads they are prepared to pay for.
 While the mayor's courage in even discussing congestion pricing is admirable, it is not clear whether the proposal is about allowing the price mechanism and consumer choice to reduce congestion and expand the road system, or whether it is about taxing road users, including commuters who are not residents (or taxpayers) of New York City, for the benefit of those who use or provide the city's mass transit system. 
 If Mayor Bloomberg is really serious about his proposal, he needs to explain where road pricing will help reduce the amount of time commuters waste each day in traffic; assure those for whom the proposed charges would create hardship that alternatives will exist; develop a more sophisticated pricing system that recognizes that traffic patterns vary by place and time, and identify highway facilities that could be improved when payments by users exceed costs. 
 Above all, he needs to assure those who work in Manhattan but live elsewhere that the payments they make under the plan, which will do little to speed their commutes, will be used to improve New York City streets, intersections, bridges, tunnels, facilities for commercial vehicles and traffic control, not to support other projects that provide them little benefit, however worthy those projects may be to others.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); MAYORS (69%) Roads and Traffic; Tolls; Commuting; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Gabriel Roth

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



416 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: The Road Best Not Taken

BYLINE: By Gabriel Roth. 
Gabriel Roth, a former transportation economist at the World Bank, is a fellow at the Independent Institute and the editor of ''Street Smart: Competition, Entrepreneurship and the Future of Roads.''

DATELINE: OAKLAND, CALIF. 

 BODY:
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG deserves some credit for proposing that New York follow the example of London and other cities and apply congestion pricing to vehicles entering Manhattan below 86th Street weekdays from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.
 After all, congestion pricing -- a road-use charge levied on certain roads at specific times of the day, presumably those with the most serious congestion when traffic is heaviest -- makes sense. Indeed, it's similar to the peak-period charges paid for electricity and telephone services or the increased charges levied by hotels in high season.
From experience in other cities, we know that congestion pricing can speed traffic, discourage nonessential trips in peak periods, encourage car-pooling, speed up buses and taxis, and attract to the city's roads busy people prepared to spend money to save time. 
 If the fee for entering the congestion pricing zone is what economists describe as ''efficient,'' drivers coming into the city from Long Island, Westchester County and the Connecticut and New Jersey suburbs could reasonably expect reductions in travel times of up to 25 percent. This is because an efficient charge, while attractive to those who consider the time saved worth the money, would be a disincentive to others: enough to reduce overall traffic by 15 percent to 20 percent during peak times. This was London's and Stockholm's experience. 
 But the mayor's proposed $8 charge for cars ($21 for commercial trucks) is too low to make a serious dent in New York traffic. According to the mayor's own transportation report, the proposed charges would reduce traffic volumes in the charged zone by 6.3 percent, and increase traffic speeds by 7.2 percent. Such changes would hardly be noticeable, especially to commuters from outside the zone. 
 In fact, the mayor's plan to cordon off a large swath of Manhattan and charge everyone entering that area the same fee looks more like a commuter tax than congestion pricing. This impression is strengthened by the fact that those who travel only within the zone -- presumably those living in Midtown and Lower Manhattan -- would be charged half the price. 
 It is true that London's charge of about $16 is applied across the board for all vehicles; those driving into the priced zone for 10 minutes pay as much as those, like delivery vehicles, that may be in the zone for 10 hours. But this defect was accepted because London's congestion charge had to be hurriedly introduced to meet a political timetable. New York is under no such pressure and can do better, perhaps emulating Stockholm, where different prices are charged at different times of the day. 
 Mayor Bloomberg promises that all revenue will be dedicated to environmental and mass transportation investments. Since road users would be paying the charges, it is fair to ask why net revenue will not be dedicated to highway improvements, as in Stockholm. For example, couldn't lanes be added to the Long Island Expressway in Queens or a new tunnel opened under Manhattan to connect the expressway to the New Jersey Turnpike?
 The theory that you cannot build your way out of congestion is valid only when road space is provided without the imposition of charges to limit traffic. Once efficient charges are introduced, and surplus revenue earned, it does not seem right to deny road users the better roads they are prepared to pay for.
 While the mayor's courage in even discussing congestion pricing is admirable, it is not clear whether the proposal is about allowing the price mechanism and consumer choice to reduce congestion and expand the road system, or whether it is about taxing road users, including commuters who are not residents (or taxpayers) of New York City, for the benefit of those who use or provide the city's mass transit system. 
 If Mayor Bloomberg is really serious about his proposal, he needs to explain where road pricing will help reduce the amount of time commuters waste each day in traffic; assure those for whom the proposed charges would create hardship that alternatives will exist; develop a more sophisticated pricing system that recognizes that traffic patterns vary by place and time, and identify highway facilities that could be improved when payments by users exceed costs. 
 Above all, he needs to assure those who work in Manhattan but live elsewhere that the payments they make under the plan, which will do little to speed their commutes, will be used to improve New York City streets, intersections, bridges, tunnels, facilities for commercial vehicles and traffic control, not to support other projects that provide them little benefit, however worthy those projects may be to others.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); MAYORS (69%) Roads and Traffic; Tolls; Commuting; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Gabriel Roth

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



417 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Playing the Hand We've Dealt

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Last week, President Bush appointed a ''war czar,'' Lt. Gen. Douglas Lute, to oversee everything we're doing in Iraq and Afghanistan -- which raises the question: Who was doing this job up to now? The answer, amazingly, is no one. We're like a fine restaurant that has decided five years after it's opened -- and has lost most of its customers -- that it might be good to hire a head chef. Better late than never. General Lute comes advertised as smart and tough. Good. I hope his first memo to the president starts like this:
 Mr. President, if you look around the region, all those we've tried to isolate -- Iran, Hamas, Hezbollah, the Iraqi insurgents and the Taliban -- are stronger today than they were two years ago. We have to reassess our strategy, beginning by facing up to the fact that we've fundamentally altered the geopolitical landscape in the Middle East. 
We brought down the hard walls that surrounded Iran by destroying Iran's two archenemies -- the Taliban in Afghanistan and Saddam's regime in Iraq. As a result, we are dealing today with an emboldened, resurgent Iran, which has taken advantage of our good works to expand its economic, cultural, religious and geopolitical influence into Persian-speaking western Afghanistan and into Shiite Iraq. 
 With Saddam gone, none of the Arab states are strong enough to balance Iran. They are all either too weak or too dysfunctional. This means we have two choices. We can be the regional power balancing Iran, which will require keeping thousands of troops in the area indefinitely. Or we have to engage Tehran in a high-level dialogue, in which we focus on our mutual interests in stabilizing Afghanistan and Iraq. You have to choose, Mr. President: I can't do my job if you don't face the fact that our wars in Iraq and Afghanistan -- and our energy gluttony -- have empowered Iran. 
 War with Iran is not inevitable. Let me remind you how well we worked with the Iranians in Afghanistan, initially. As you recall, we had a regular cooperative dialogue between our ambassadors in Kabul. The Iranians helped to deliver us the Northern Alliance. Then they cut their financial support for their favorite warlord in Herat, Ismail Khan, so that the pro-American Afghan government could extend its authority there. When, in early 2002, we gave them the names of members of a Qaeda group operating in Meshad, Iran, they rolled them up and put them on a plane to Afghanistan. There was much more, until things went sour.
 I don't know who is responsible for the breakdown -- the Iranians point to your calling them part of the ''axis of evil,'' after they had helped us so much. We can point to their involvement in bombings in Saudi Arabia in 2003. But for the past few years we've been in cold war with them -- and today their proxies are beating our proxies in Lebanon, Gaza and Iraq. 
 As Vali Nasr, author of ''The Shia Revival,'' points out: ''Stability in the Middle East is now about U.S.-Iran relations, and it is fantasy to think that we can go back to the old days where the Cairo-Riyadh-Amman axis manages the region for us.'' Iran will not allow a stable Iraq to emerge if its interests are not protected, and if the new balance of power in Iraq -- one based on a Shiite-Kurdish majority -- is not recognized.
 Yes, the Saudis will go nuts, but look what they've been doing: in private the Saudis tell us we can't leave Iraq and in public their king denounces our occupation there as ''illegal.'' Of course, we must protect the Saudis. But they and their Sunni allies in Iraq have to accept the new reality there, and stop treating the Shiites as a lower form of life. Then we can cut them the best deal possible. If not, they're on their own. Our kids are not going to die to restore Sunni minority rule to Iraq. 
 At the same time, we have to open a dialogue with Hamas -- not to embrace it, but to lay out a gradual pathway that will bring it into relations with Israel. As Rashid Khalidi, Columbia University's Palestinian expert and author of ''The Iron Cage,'' points out: ''If we let the Palestinian Authority be destroyed, and then we keep Hamas isolated'' -- even though it won a democratic election that we sponsored -- ''we will end up with the hard boys, the gangs you see today on the streets of Gaza, who respond to no authority at all.'' 
 If I thought that isolating Iran and Hamas was working, I'd continue it. But it manifestly is not -- any more than isolating Castro has worked. So either we find a way to draw them in or we'll be fighting them -- and the hard boys -- in Iraq, Lebanon, Gaza and Afghanistan for a long, long time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); HAMAS (74%); HEZBOLLAH (74%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TERRORISM (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); RELIGION (65%) United States International Relations; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (56%); HAMAS (56%) Taliban

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (51%) Thomas L Friedman; Douglas E (Lt Gen) Lute; George W (Pres) Bush; Saddam (1937-2006) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); MASHHAD, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (76%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN (76%) Iran; Afghanistan; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007



418 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; CITYWIDE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Will Gentrification Spoil the Birthplace of Hip-Hop?

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Hip-hop was born in the west Bronx. Not the South Bronx, not Harlem and most definitely not Queens. Just ask anybody at 1520 Sedgwick Avenue -- an otherwise unremarkable high-rise just north of the Cross Bronx and hard along the Major Deegan.
 ''This is where it came from,'' said Clive Campbell, pointing to the building's first-floor community room. ''This is it. The culture started here and went around the world. But this is where it came from. Not anyplace else.''
O.K., Mr. Campbell is not just anybody -- he is the alpha D.J. of hip-hop. As D.J. Kool Herc, he presided over the turntables at parties in that community room in 1973 that spilled into nearby parks before turning into a global assault. Playing snippets of the choicest beats from James Brown, Jimmy Castor, Babe Ruth and anything else that piqued his considerable musical curiosity, he provided the soundtrack savored by loose-limbed b-boys (a term he takes credit for creating, too). 
 Mr. Campbell thinks the building should be declared a landmark in recognition of its role in American popular culture. Its residents agree, but for more practical reasons. They want to have the building placed on the National Register of Historic Places so that it might be protected from any change that would affect its character -- in this case, a building for poor and working-class families. 
 Throughout the city, housing advocates said, buildings like 1520 Sedgwick are becoming harder to find as owners opt out of subsidy programs so they can eventually charge higher rents on the open market. 
 The Sedgwick building is part of the state's Mitchell-Lama program, in which private landlords who receive tax breaks and subsidized mortgages agree to limit their return on equity and rent to people who meet modest income limits. The contracts allow owners to leave the program and prepay their mortgage loan after 20 years. Rent regulations can protect tenants from increases, but not always.
 While Mitchell-Lama buildings in parts of Manhattan, like the Lower East Side, were among the first to leave the program, housing experts say that the trend has spread far beyond, from the Rockaways to the west Bronx. 
 Tom Waters, a housing policy analyst at the Community Service Society of New York, said there are about 40,000 Mitchell-Lama units in the city, down from 66,000 in 1990. The rate of buildings leaving the program has accelerated since 2001, he said, as landlords find they can do better on the open market. 
 Labor groups and housing advocates have called for safeguards on moderate-income housing, which they said was essential for the city's economic health. While the groups have lauded Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg for his commitment to building such housing, they said the State Legislature should address policies that affect the city's housing market.
 ''There is no single solution,'' said Ed Ott, executive director of the New York City Central Labor Council. ''Preservation of currently affordable housing is something we need to look at. Working people are going to have no place to go.''
 In February, tenants of the Sedgwick Avenue building, which has 100 units, were told that the owners planned to leave the Mitchell-Lama program. The building's owners did not respond to several requests for comment for this article. 
 Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, said landlords were entitled by contract to opt out after a set period. He said that if there were concerns about keeping the buildings in the program, the government should consider better incentives.
 ''Contracts should still mean something,'' Mr. Spinola said. ''Affordable housing is clearly a problem in the city. I do not believe the social concerns for citizens of the city of New York should fall on the backs of one particular owner when it is a citywide problem.''
 The problem has been widespread enough to keep Dina Levy of the Urban Homesteading Assistance Board looking for new strategies to slow it down. The group, a nonprofit housing advocacy organization, is advising the Sedgwick tenants. 
 ''The market is so out of control in every corner of every borough,'' said Ms. Levy, director of organizing and policy for the group. ''We have run out of land, so anywhere in the boroughs can be the next hot real estate market. That's why we're scrambling to find preservation opportunities to keep them affordable.''
 That usually involves seeing if there are mortgage requirements or land covenants that mandate the property be used for moderate-income housing, she said. But when tenants of 1520 Sedgwick came to her group in February, organizers stumbled on an interesting fact when they searched for the address online. 
 ''The first hundred hits said 'birthplace of hip-hop,' '' said Dan DeSloover, an organizer for the group. ''Kool Herc had lived there. That was a great coincidence to have this building be part of that history.''
 The idea to have the building declared a landmark as a way of keeping it affordable for moderate-income families developed slowly, as organizers discussed it with tenants and elected officials' staff members. 
 Preservationists doubted it would stop the building's owners from leaving the subsidy program, since the landmark distinction would apply to the structure and not necessarily its use. And there is another obstacle: to be eligible for the National Register, a building normally has to be at least 50 years old. The Sedgwick building falls short of that by 12 years. Exceptions are made for extraordinary cultural significance. 
 ''It is complicated when you try to preserve some other feature of a building besides its architecture,'' said Lisa Kersavage, a preservationist at the Municipal Art Society of New York. ''But this is a very important cultural touchstone for New York, and awareness should be raised.''
 Cindy Campbell, who promoted the first party where her brother spun the tunes, is intent on doing at least that. She hopes that by highlighting the history of the building, where her family lived for nine years, she might be able to enlist big-name rappers to Mayor Bloomberg in her campaign to help the tenants. 
 She still recalls the first party -- on Aug. 11, 1973, she says -- which she dreamed up as a way for her to get some extra money for back-to-school clothes.
 ''I didn't want to go to Fordham Road to buy clothes because you'd go to school and see everybody with the same thing on,'' she said. ''I wanted to go to Delancey Street and get something unusual.''
 Her brother wound up giving the neighborhood something unusual, too, inside the packed and sweaty community room. Drawing on his wide-ranging musical tastes, he combined sounds and in time those sounds were combined in new ways as he extended the beats to the delight of the dancers.
 ''It wasn't a black thing, it was a we thing,'' said Mr. Campbell, now 52. ''We played everything. Gary Glitter? We rocked that. We schooled people about music.''
 Since leaving 1520 Sedgwick, Mr. Campbell has moved to Long Island and has continued spinning tunes. (On Sunday, he was the D.J. for the city's first Dance Parade, which traveled from Midtown to Lower Manhattan.) 
 Some old-timers rushed up to him last week when he and his sister visited the building. They told him -- to his dismay -- that the community room has been closed for renovations since last year. 
 ''All of it came from here,'' he said. ''From this building. It should be respected.''
 Curtis Brown, who was a teenager living a few blocks away during Kool Herc's heyday, agreed. Mr. Brown went from being a fan to becoming Grandmaster Caz of the Cold Crush Brothers, an early and influential rap group. 
 ''That place means everything,'' he said. ''You can look at it objectively and say it could have happened somewhere else. Maybe. But this is where it did happen.''
 To him it is already a landmark.
 ''As far as government and what they consider important, who knows?'' he said. ''But for something that saturated the world culture, that went from one building to the world, I would want to hold on to the historical significance of that building.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: By highlighting the history of the 100-unit building, housing advocates hope to enlist the help of big-name rappers and the mayor. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. B5)
The community room, where Kool Herc presided over turntables at parties in the 1970s, has been closed for renovations since last year. Across the city, owners of buildings like the one at 1520 Sedgwick are leaving subsidy programs.
 Clive Campbell, known as D.J. Kool Herc, at 1520 Sedgwick Avenue in the west Bronx. He wants the apartment building to be declared a landmark for its role in hip-hop culture. ''This is where it came from,'' he says. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); MUSIC (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (79%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); RENT CONTROL (76%); FAMILY (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (61%) Housing; Mitchell-Lama Projects; Renting and Leasing; National Register of Historic Places; Historic Buildings and Sites; Music; Rap Music

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) David Gonzalez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Bronx (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



419 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: In Strategy Shift, China to Buy a Stake in Blackstone

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
The Chinese government said yesterday that it would acquire a $3 billion stake in the Blackstone Group, the private equity firm, in the country's first effort to diversify its $1.2 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves beyond United States Treasury bills and into commercial enterprise.
 The deal, which is set to coincide with Blackstone's $4 billion initial public offering this year, will give China a roughly 8 percent stake in Blackstone, which owns companies that have 375,000 employees and $83 billion in annual sales. 
It would also represent a watershed for the booming private equity industry as it tries to gain a foothold in China.
 ''It's a historic change. It's a paradigm shift in global capital flows,'' Stephen A. Schwarzman, a co-founder of Blackstone, said in an interview. He called the Chinese government's decision ''huge'' and even ''surprising'' to him.
 China will invest in the Blackstone firm itself, not in its funds, which invests in companies. However, the relationship opens the door for China to invest in Blackstone's funds in the future.
 China has been grappling with how to invest its foreign reserves more aggressively. In March, China said that it would set up a special investment arm -- the State Foreign Exchange Investment Company -- to handle a portion of those reserves, which are now held by the central bank, in the hopes of earning a higher return.
 The agency is not yet operating, but the Blackstone deal suggests that the Chinese government is eager to put its vast reserves to work outside of China. Still, as Blackstone begins to invest in emerging markets like China, the deal offers the prospect that at least some of the money could find its way back to China. Indeed, Blackstone is planning to open offices in Hong Kong and Beijing this year.
 For years, China has invested in foreign currency, particularly United States Treasury bonds, which have earned a safe but modest return. But now, with the American dollar in decline and the Chinese government willing to take on more risk to earn higher returns, the new agency is being modeled, in part, on Temasek Holdings, Singapore's state-owned investment firm, which has invested billions of dollars around the world, particularly in China.
 A similar investment agency in China would effectively create the world's largest hedge fund. Some analysts say that the China fund's investment of billions of dollars in the global financial markets could push global asset prices higher, affecting American and European stocks, bonds and interest rates, as well as the value of energy and natural resources in Africa and the Middle East.
 The Blackstone Group, which is based in New York, has been moving aggressively in recent months to find investments in China. Blackstone is trying to catch up to the Carlyle Group, which has a large operation in China.
 In January, Blackstone hired Anthony Leung, the former Hong Kong financial secretary, to run the group's business in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. And last month, Reuters reported that Blackstone was seeking to acquire a stake in the Guofeng Group, one of China's largest makers of plastic products.
 Under the terms of the Chinese government's investment in Blackstone, it will buy nonvoting shares as part of the firm's initial public offering at 95.5 percent of the public-offering price. It has agreed to keep its stake for at least four years.
 China may reduce its ownership after the public offering so that it would hold less than 10 percent of Blackstone's shares. The public offering is expected to value Blackstone at as much as $40 billion.
 While the investment may presage further Chinese investment in private equity firms in the future, China has promised not to invest in a competing private equity firm for a year.
 Blackstone -- which has led multibillion-dollar buyouts of Equity Office Properties, Freescale Semiconductor and Michaels Stores -- manages a $15.6 billion buyout fund, the second-largest in the industry. In its prospectus, it reported $2.3 billion in profit in 2006. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen A. Schwarzman of Blackstone called China's $3 billion stake ''huge.'' (Photo by Mat Szwajkos/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); BONDS (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); CURRENCIES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Blackstone Group

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%); CG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: Andrew Ross Sorkin; David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



420 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Fear Of Eating

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Yesterday I did something risky: I ate a salad.
 These are anxious days at the lunch table. For all you know, there may be E. coli on your spinach, salmonella in your peanut butter and melamine in your pet's food and, because it was in the feed, in your chicken sandwich.
Who's responsible for the new fear of eating? Some blame globalization; some blame food-producing corporations; some blame the Bush administration. But I blame Milton Friedman. 
 Now, those who blame globalization do have a point. U.S. officials can't inspect overseas food-processing plants without the permission of foreign governments -- and since the Food and Drug Administration has limited funds and manpower, it can inspect only a small percentage of imports. This leaves American consumers effectively dependent on the quality of foreign food-safety enforcement. And that's not a healthy place to be, especially when it comes to imports from China, where the state of food safety is roughly what it was in this country before the Progressive movement. 
 The Washington Post, reviewing F.D.A. documents, found that last month the agency detained shipments from China that included dried apples treated with carcinogenic chemicals and seafood ''coated with putrefying bacteria.'' You can be sure that a lot of similarly unsafe and disgusting food ends up in American stomachs.
 Those who blame corporations also have a point. In 2005, the F.D.A. suspected that peanut butter produced by ConAgra, which sells the product under multiple brand names, might be contaminated with salmonella. According to The New York Times, ''when agency inspectors went to the plant that made the peanut butter, the company acknowledged it had destroyed some product but declined to say why,'' and refused to let the inspectors examine its records without a written authorization.
 According to the company, the agency never followed through. This brings us to our third villain, the Bush administration. 
 Without question, America's food safety system has degenerated over the past six years. We don't know how many times concerns raised by F.D.A. employees were ignored or soft-pedaled by their superiors. What we do know is that since 2001 the F.D.A. has introduced no significant new food safety regulations except those mandated by Congress. 
 This isn't simply a matter of caving in to industry pressure. The Bush administration won't issue food safety regulations even when the private sector wants them. The president of the United Fresh Produce Association says that the industry's problems ''can't be solved without strong mandatory federal regulations'': without such regulations, scrupulous growers and processors risk being undercut by competitors more willing to cut corners on food safety. Yet the administration refuses to do more than issue nonbinding guidelines.
 Why would the administration refuse to regulate an industry that actually wants to be regulated? Officials may fear that they would create a precedent for public-interest regulation of other industries. But they are also influenced by an ideology that says business should never be regulated, no matter what. 
 The economic case for having the government enforce rules on food safety seems overwhelming. Consumers have no way of knowing whether the food they eat is contaminated, and in this case what you don't know can hurt or even kill you. But there are some people who refuse to accept that case, because it's ideologically inconvenient. 
 That's why I blame the food safety crisis on Milton Friedman, who called for the abolition of both the food and the drug sides of the F.D.A. What would protect the public from dangerous or ineffective drugs? ''It's in the self-interest of pharmaceutical companies not to have these bad things,'' he insisted in a 1999 interview. He would presumably have applied the same logic to food safety (as he did to airline safety): regardless of circumstances, you can always trust the private sector to police itself.
 O.K., I'm not saying that Mr. Friedman directly caused tainted spinach and poisonous peanut butter. But he did help to make our food less safe, by legitimizing what the historian Rick Perlstein calls ''E. coli conservatives'': ideologues who won't accept even the most compelling case for government regulation.
 Earlier this month the administration named, you guessed it, a ''food safety czar.'' But the food safety crisis isn't caused by the arrangement of the boxes on the organization chart. It's caused by the dominance within our government of a literally sickening ideology.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BACTERIA (92%); PRODUCT SAFETY (90%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (90%); FOOD SAFETY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); FOOD ADDITIVES REGULATION (88%); DEREGULATION (88%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (87%); E COLI (78%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (78%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); FOOD INSPECTION (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); FOOD MFG (75%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); CARCINOGENS (66%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; Consumer Protection; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Bacteria

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%) Food and Drug Administration

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman; Milton (1912-2006) Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



421 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: In Stamford, a Plan to Rebuild An Area and Build an Advantage

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn. 

 BODY:
By Fairfield County standards, the South End here is about as run-down as it gets. Abandoned factories, reminders of an industrial past, abut rows of homes where some of the city's poorest residents live. The neighborhood represents a sharp contrast to the bank towers and condominium high-rises on the other side of Interstate 95. 
 Yet the developer, Joseph P. Beninati, sees promise there, amid the piles of brick and rubble. His company, Antares Investment Partners, based in nearby Greenwich, plans to pump $3.5 billion into a project on 80 acres it owns in the South End. The plan, which would combine new construction and the renovation of some of the historic factory buildings, calls for 4,000 apartments and condominium units, 20 restaurants, 2 hotels and scores of offices and shops, all a few minutes' walk from Long Island Sound.
''There are few places where you can start with a clean slate but be on the water and 29 minutes from the city by train,'' Mr. Beninati said, referring to Manhattan, as he drove his Land Rover past block after block of buildings that are scheduled to be or have been demolished. 
 ''This plan is a poster child for smart growth,'' he added, referring to developments in which homes, shops, schools and businesses are within walking distance of one another.
 The magnitude of the Antares project is audacious, even in a city as eager for new business as Stamford is. The development also would play a major role in Stamford's efforts to remain a financial center in a region where a number of cities are looking to lure business their way. 
 The bid to revive the South End could ratchet up the pressure on rivals like Jersey City, White Plains and other so-called satellite cities that are trying to attract jobs with office towers, condominiums and family-friendly parks of their own. 
 ''We believe this allows Stamford to continue to be competitive in a tough marketplace,'' the mayor, Dannel P. Malloy, said about Antares' plans. 
 That urban competition comes amid signs that the region's real estate boom -- and the expansion in the financial services industry that helped fuel it -- may be cresting. If the market slumps, developers could be saddled with losses if the millions of square feet of office space they are adding across the region are filled at lower prices, or not filled at all. And the cities that backed those projects could face financial headaches if anticipated tax revenues fell short.
 In Stamford, there are questions about whether the South End will steal retail dollars from other parts of the city, and whether the flood of new apartments will dampen property prices elsewhere. There are also questions about whether commercial and residential development is squeezing out middle-class families. Last year, according to Money magazine, the median home price in Stamford was $459,900, up 8.2 percent from the year before.
 ''They keep saying it's going to help us, but it's raised the price of homes, which makes it more difficult for people to afford to live here,'' said Joseph Tarzia, senior member of the Stamford Board of Finance. ''It begs the question whether all this development has done us good.'' 
 Mr. Beninati and his business partner, James P. Cabrera, said they are investing in Stamford because they believe banks and other companies will continue flocking here. With the roads clogged and trains packed into and out of Stamford, the developers predict that workers will want to live near their offices and still be a half-hour train ride from Manhattan. 
 During the past decade, the population of Stamford has grown to 122,000, up from 108,000, as it has attracted dozens of corporate offices that brought thousands of jobs with them. With the growth came additions like a Morton's Steakhouse and, on the horizon, a Ritz-Carlton hotel and Trump-branded condominiums.
 The Antares project is intended to preserve some of the South End's historic structures while turning the waterfront from a commercial district into a people-friendly destination with restaurants, a promenade, yacht slips and a hotel. 
 ''We always have a risk that there are market fluctuations,'' said Michael W. Freimuth, director of economic development for Stamford. ''But right now, the market says it wants more housing. We also know New Rochelle, White Plains, Yonkers are doing some things, and we're looking at West Hartford and the Bayonne peninsula.'' 
 Jersey City, with twice as many residents as Stamford, already has 17 million square feet of office space and another 6 million square feet under construction. Four thousand luxury apartments are also being built there, and its nexus of financial firms -- Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Merrill Lynch among them -- is a big reason that Jersey City is called ''Wall Street West'' or ''the Sixth Borough.'' 
 White Plains has added several thousand apartments downtown, many of them in the $320 million City Center project, which also has shops and theaters. Another White Plains shopping district includes Fortunoff's, Morton's Steakhouse and Whole Foods Market. 
 The regional battle to win business does not mean that one city's gain is another's loss, economists and urban planners said. New York City's economy is strong enough that as companies there grow, they begin looking for cheaper, more spacious locations outside the city. The satellite cities have responded, with some of them developing specialties: hedge funds in Stamford and Greenwich, for example.
 ''All of these places are doing well,'' said Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit group that has advised Stamford on planning issues. ''There are activities that don't have to be in Manhattan, so a very different set of jobs are going to Stamford and Jersey City.'' 
 UBS, a global financial firm, has three satellite offices that complement its Midtown Manhattan operations. In Stamford, the company has 1.4 million square feet of office space, including a football field-size trading floor, for 4,000 employees in the investment bank group. UBS has one million square feet in Jersey City for the logistics staff, and a similar amount in Weehawken, N.J., for the wealth management team. 
 ''It's not that people don't want to come into the city,'' said Charles Nobs, who manages the UBS real estate operations in North and Central America. ''But you get an entirely different demographic.'' 
 Because of the rise of Stamford, Greenwich and White Plains as corporate hubs, Grand Central Terminal is now the final destination of fewer than half the riders on the Metro-North Railroad each weekday morning.
 The number of people riding Metro-North to Stamford doubled to 4,226 a day last year from 2,155 in 1996. And 30 percent more Metro-North riders get off the morning trains in Stamford than get on. That gap may grow when Royal Bank of Scotland completes its $400 million office complex downtown, which will include a 95,000-square-foot trading floor and room for up to 1,400 traders. 
 Antares hopes to build homes for some of those workers. It plans to start building its South End project next year and complete the first phase -- which is expected to include a 100,000-square-foot office building, a 140-room hotel, space for 15 to 20 shops and about 1,000 apartments -- by the end of the decade. Stamford's Planning Board has signed off on the project, and the Zoning Board is looking at the plans, with an initial public hearing scheduled for today. 
 ''We're trying to attract trader types,'' Mr. Beninati said. ''The timing has been good because office space is at a premium.'' Antares and the city must still decide how to divide the costs for building sidewalks, sewers and other utilities, which may hit $200 million, Mr. Freimuth said. Lawmakers in Hartford are close to passing a bill that would let Stamford issue special risk-sharing bonds to pay for its share.
 Officials say the investment is worth making. They expect Stamford to collect an additional $20 million a year in property taxes when the Antares project is finished, 10 times more than it brings in now from the 80 acres. The additional tax revenue is about 5 percent of Stamford's current $401 million annual budget. Half of the extra tax money would probably be used to pay off the city's bonds and to cover additional demand for garbage collectors, police officers and firefighters, officials said.
 Moreover, the revenue estimates do not include other types of taxes that the new businesses and residents would pay. And Stamford expects to rake in another $35 million from building permits during the next few years, Mr. Freimuth said. 
 ''They can't spend $3.5 billion,'' Mayor Malloy said, ''and not enlarge our tax base.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 24, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about a $3.5 billion development planned for Stamford, Conn., that is part of the city's efforts to remain a financial center in the New York region misstated ridership statistics for the Metro-North Railroad. Because of the rise of Stamford and other suburban cities as corporate hubs, Grand Central Terminal is now the final destination of fewer than half the riders at all times -- not those on weekday mornings. (During the morning rush, the final destination of most riders is still Grand Central.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Antares Investment Partners intends to build restaurants, a hotel, yacht slips and a promenade along the waterfront in Stamford's South End. (Photo by Christopher Capozziello for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); RESTAURANTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Area Planning and Renewal; Finances

ORGANIZATION: Antares Investment Partners

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (50%) Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Stamford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



422 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; DETECTIVE TO THE STARS: The World of Anthony Pellicano; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2856 words

HEADLINE: In Court Files, Hollywood's Mr. Fix-It at Work

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and ALLISON HOPE WEINER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 20 

 BODY:
Just hours after a raft of articles suggesting the impending collapse of his business hit the papers on April 11, 2002, Michael S. Ovitz did what Hollywood moguls had done for a generation: He called Anthony Pellicano.
 ''I need to see you,'' Mr. Ovitz said, asking for a private meeting at an out-of-the-way spot. ''This is the single most complex situation imaginable.''
They all went to Mr. Pellicano when their situations seemed too complex, or the stakes too high, to leave anything to chance: executives and actors, studio bosses and their jilted spouses, the hottest and the has-been. In nearly 20 years in Los Angeles, he had made himself into the rightful owner of that breathless title, ''Detective to the Stars,'' the one man who would, and seemingly could, do anything to clean up any mess.
 So when federal agents raided Mr. Pellicano's office in November 2002, his case became a local obsession: who would be fingered next, people wondered anxiously, as investigators gathered evidence and listened to Mr. Pellicano's wiretap tapes. 
 Perhaps the case has not lived up to its advance billing as the biggest Hollywood scandal in decades. More than a dozen people have been arrested, including a movie director, the head of a Century City law firm and a cast of minor characters. 
 Mr. Pellicano himself sits in jail, awaiting trial on charges that his vaunted detective prowess actually boiled down to an almost addict-like reliance on illegal wiretaps. He has pleaded not guilty to charges of wiretapping and conspiracy. Only one actual wiretap has been produced by prosecutors, and defense lawyers dispute its authenticity. 
 Still, the evidence so far -- 150,000 pages of documents and hundreds of recordings Mr. Pellicano made of his own phone calls, many of which include discussions of wiretapping -- is a rich sourcebook of show-business manners, mores and argot, a vicarious tour through the dysfunctional heart of Hollywood. 
 The case file, much of which was obtained by The New York Times, illustrates the economics of information in the place that values it most -- a community devoted to the manufacture, control and perpetuation of image. And it explains why Mr. Pellicano, who trafficked in all manner of potentially damaging data, was so eagerly hired and his unmasking so direly feared. 
 The marketplace was filled with potential buyers, from the top of the town to the bottom of the D-list, in the movies, television, music, even the art and sports worlds. Stars might have had the most to lose if secrets were exposed. But entertainment executives -- for whom job security is notoriously fleeting, and reputations as evanescent as last weekend's box office -- had ample reason to think others were plotting against them, or at least rooting for them to fail.
 Back in the golden days of Hollywood, the studios had in-house detectives to erase the indiscretions of their bosses and stars. In the era of outsourcing, Mr. Pellicano set himself up as a fixer for hire, on a $25,000 nonrefundable retainer, creating a character to suit whatever his clients imagined him to be: old-time shamus or shady ex-spy, geeky technophile or mobbed-up muscle. His constant allusions to being ''connected,'' to his roots in Al Capone's old stomping ground of Cicero, Ill., nurtured what, for some customers, was a captivating aura of violence. 
 From his suite on Sunset Boulevard, he maneuvered his way into the confidences of the powerful and fabulous, peddling information as ammunition or as protection from the unintended consequences of their lives. A Penchant for Celebrities 
 He started out in Chicago in the 1960s tracking deadbeat customers for the Spiegel catalog, then hung out a shingle as a private investigator. From the beginning, he made celebrity clients his calling card. When the remains of Elizabeth Taylor's husband, the producer Mike Todd, disappeared from a Chicago cemetery in 1978, Mr. Pellicano led the police, and news cameras, right to them.
 He also acquired a mastery of audio technology, and was constantly quoted in Watergate-era articles about detecting wiretaps and electronic bugs. When a tape said to be of the exiled shah of Iran surfaced, The Times hired Mr. Pellicano, ''one of the country's top voice analysis'' experts, to authenticate it.
 For a private eye selling himself to celebrities, however, Chicago was not as target-rich as Los Angeles. Mr. Pellicano moved west to help John Z. DeLorean, the carmaker and playboy, fight cocaine charges, and the acquittal instantly established him in town.
 As his business exploded, so did the range of services he offered. It was an open secret that the menu included wiretapping. 
 Eavesdropping was nothing new in Hollywood. As early as the 1950s, a small industry of security companies was kept busy sweeping for bugs in the homes and offices of studio executives and cheating husbands. But by the mid-1990s, Mr. Pellicano had revolutionized the practice, inventing a virtually undetectable wiretapping technique. 
 His wiretaps were installed not inside a target location but outside, in phone company junction boxes, and connected over telephone lines either directly to his office or to a laptop in a nearby apartment that recorded every call. Eventually, he devised a way to operate many wiretaps at once. By the late 1990s, to hear him tell it in conversations with clients, he was tapping phones all over town. (His lawyers did not respond to messages requesting comment.)
 Mr. Pellicano's association with Bert Fields, a litigator known for his confrontational style, gave him entree to a client list studded with stars like Tom Cruise and executives like Mr. Ovitz and the talent manager Brad Grey. 
 ''I don't care how you get information,'' David Moriarty, a lawyer helping Mr. Fields defend Mr. Grey, told Mr. Pellicano in one recorded conversation.
 ''You're my kind of man,'' the private eye shot back. 
 (Asked for comment, Mr. Moriarty's lawyer said that the quotation had been taken out of context, and that prosecutors had cleared his client of any wrongdoing.)
 In fact, two cases involving Mr. Grey produced roughly three-quarters of the documents in the Pellicano file. 
 When the comedian Garry Shandling went up against Mr. Grey, his longtime manager, in 1998, Mr. Fields took Mr. Grey's case, and before long, the detective was running what prosecutors say were illegal checks on witnesses like Mr. Shandling's accountant, personal assistant and girlfriend.
 Two years later, Vincent Zenga, an upstart screenwriter-producer known as Bo, sued Mr. Grey over credit and profits from the hit horror spoof ''Scary Movie.'' During a deposition, Mr. Grey squirmed in the witness chair as Mr. Zenga's lawyer depicted him as an unethical exploiter of other people's work. 
 After two grueling days, one of Mr. Grey's lawyers e-mailed a colleague with a simple message: ''Brad wants to hire Anthony Pellicano to investigate Zenga.'' The lawyer added a request, to ''see if we asked Zenga for his cellphone no. during his depo.'' 
 Mr. Pellicano was quickly on the case, wiretapping Mr. Zenga. What Mr. Pellicano heard was helpful not only in defeating Mr. Zenga in court; it could also be used to stymie his career. When Mr. Pellicano mentioned that Mr. Zenga was doing deals with the Imagine and Miramax film companies, one of Mr. Grey's lawyers responded, ''We ought to be able to put a stop to that.''
 In a statement on Friday, Mr. Grey said he believed that everyone on the legal team at Mr. Fields's law firm, including Mr. Pellicano, ''was acting properly, and I knew nothing of the improper activities now alleged against him.'' Mr. Fields's lawyer did not respond to a request for comment.
 Michael S. Ovitz saw threats coming from every direction. 
 In his prime, as head of Creative Artists Agency, he had been considered ''the most powerful man in Hollywood.'' By April 2002, his new talent and production company was falling apart even as he tried to sell it; his old proteges at Creative Artists were picking off his clients one by one; and he believed that his enemies were using the news media to broadcast and speed his undoing.
 On the day he mysteriously asked Mr. Pellicano for a 30-minute meeting -- one mentioned nowhere in Mr. Ovitz's detailed appointment calendars for 2002 -- another round of articles had reported the defection of the comedian and actor Robin Williams back to Creative Artists.
 Mr. Ovitz later told the F.B.I. that he asked Mr. Pellicano to learn what would be printed about him in the coming months and to uncover embarrassing information about his enemies that he could use against them, documents show. Mr. Ovitz's lawyer declined to comment for this article.
 John McTiernan, the director of blockbusters like ''Die Hard'' and ''The Hunt for Red October,'' hired Mr. Pellicano to wiretap his producer. 
 In the summer of 2000, filming an ill-fated remake of the 1970s cult film ''Rollerball,'' Mr. McTiernan became convinced that the producer, Charles Roven, was undermining him with the movie's financiers and executives at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. 
 ''I sort of would like to know what he's saying to the studio, and if there is any place where he's clearly saying one thing to the studio and saying something else to others,'' Mr. McTiernan said in a conversation recorded by Mr. Pellicano.
 But the detective offered only generalities. ''Jesus Christ,'' he said, describing his first round of eavesdropping. ''I mean, scheming. Wriggling. Lying. Hypocrisy. Oh, my God. Oh, my God.''
 When Mr. Pellicano complained that the sheer volume of calls meant that finding the most valuable information would be like hunting for a needle in a haystack, Mr. McTiernan asked if his computer could listen for the juiciest stuff, specific words or names. 
 ''No, no, no, no, no. That's in the movies,'' Mr. Pellicano said.
 Balking at the expense, Mr. McTiernan told Mr. Pellicano to take down the wiretaps. But he asked Mr. Pellicano to save the tapes -- just in case.
 Mr. McTiernan, who declined to comment for this article, became the first movie-industry casualty of the federal investigation, when he pleaded guilty last year to falsely telling an F.B.I. agent that he had no knowledge of any wiretapping by Mr. Pellicano and had never discussed it with him. The Perfect Hollywood Persona 
 Hollywood is sustained by its own peculiar system of mutual advantage. There are the boldface names, their lives often complicated by overlapping personal and professional conflicts, who believe that one call to the right person (and a lot of money) can solve any problem. And then there are the service providers -- the agents, lawyers, publicists, assistants and countless others -- who stroke the egos of the people paying the bills and get to have their own egos stroked according to their proximity to celebrity. Mr. Pellicano's consigliere persona, reinforced by the Italian opera on his telephone system, was a perfect fit. 
 The singer and actress Courtney Love called in 2001. She was fighting to get out of her record contract, fighting the surviving Nirvana musicians over control of the estate of her late husband, Kurt Cobain, and supporting her producer and boyfriend, James Barber, in a child-custody fight. She also feared that a disgruntled former assistant who had hacked into her e-mail account might publish her correspondence with friends like Drew Barrymore, Russell Crowe and even her psychic.
 Ms. Love complained to Mr. Pellicano that previous private eyes had turned out to be overpriced frauds, wimps or geeks. She wanted someone who could do it all, she told him, who would use whatever tools it took to get results -- from refinement to ''baseball bats.'' ''And I need them all under one roof,'' she said. 
 ''Listen, Courtney, if you come to me, that's the end of that,'' Mr. Pellicano said. ''My clients are my family, and that's it.''
 Ms. Love indicated her approval.
 ''There is no other way around it,'' he said. ''I'm very heavy-handed, honey.''
 ''I need heavy-handed, baby,'' Ms. Love said. ''I like talking to an Italian.''
 ''Sicilian, honey,'' he corrected.
 ''Well, that's even better.'' 
 The tapes do not tell what Mr. Pellicano ultimately did for Ms. Love, who declined to comment for this article. But for stars who lived and died on image, perhaps his most valuable service was making sure a private problem did not metastasize into a public spectacle. In one conversation in 2001, the comedian and actor Chris Rock showed how attuned he was to the levels of outrage evoked by different types of scandal. A Stirring of Ambitions 
 Mr. Rock feared that his rising stardom was being threatened by an accusation that an adulterous one-night tryst two and a half years earlier had not been consensual. 
 ''I'm better off getting caught with needles in my arm, I really am,'' he fretted. ''Needles with pictures: 'Here's Chris Rock shooting heroin.' Much better blow to the career.''
 ''I'm not going to let it happen,'' Mr. Pellicano assured him. ''Just stick with me, baby. I'll take care of it.'' 
 Mr. Pellicano read from the woman's police report, saying he was not supposed to have gotten a copy, and then confided that the police were not taking her seriously. (No charges were brought. Mr. Rock declined to comment for this article.)
 He also offered some unsolicited career advice, asking about Mr. Rock's latest movie, a romantic comedy called ''Down to Earth,'' and cautioning him not to ''get too fluffy'' in choosing parts. ''Look what happened to Richard Pryor,'' he said.
 Inevitably, Mr. Pellicano's life stirred his own Hollywood ambitions. In 1993, he collaborated with the director Michael Mann and the writer Cynthia Cidre on a screenplay about a private eye who squashes tabloid stories, wiretaps his prey and charges a $25,000 nonrefundable retainer. (''We're living in a society where the rich and famous think they can pay for and get away with anything,'' one character observes.)
 That project stalled, but in early 2002, Mr. Pellicano put together a pitch for a TV series he described as a ''Sopranos'' for Los Angeles. He sold it to Brad Grey's company, producer of ''The Sopranos,'' which took it to HBO.
 Worried that the network would rob him of credit and money, Mr. Pellicano received a mollifying call from Mr. Grey.
 ''They said that they will not give me executive producer credit,'' Mr. Pellicano complained.
 ''Well, I will take care of that. What's the next thing?'' Mr. Grey asked.
 ''I have to have story credit,'' Mr. Pellicano said. After all, he said, he had written much of the pilot script. 
 When Mr. Grey promised to remedy the situation -- and assured him that a $15,000-per-episode fee was respectable in the TV market -- Mr. Pellicano regained his usual bravado.
 ''You're my friend,'' he told Mr. Grey. ''If you said, 'Anthony, I get $10 million, you get $10,000,' that's it.'' He added: ''You are my friend forever. And if you called me up and said, 'Anthony, we're passing,' I'd say, 'O.K., Brad, what else is going on?' ''
 Still, a moment later, Mr. Pellicano could not resist complaining again about his fee.
 ''When I did the consulting for the script for Fox with Michael Mann, I got $250,000,'' he said.
 But that was for a film, Mr. Grey said, adding, ''That's a better business.'' 
 Mr. Pellicano never got his series. It was rejected by HBO sometime in 2002. 
 Mr. Grey himself left TV for the movie business in February 2005, when he was named chairman of Paramount Pictures. Last week, in his statement, he said: ''When you talked with Anthony Pellicano, you immediately saw he was a colorful character, which made his HBO series a great idea then. Ironically, it may be an even better idea today.''
 Indeed, Mr. Mann never gave up on making a film about a Hollywood detective, and this month he announced a new script, set on the old MGM lot in the 1930s. Leonardo DiCaprio is set to star, Variety reported, as ''the kind of detective studios once relied on to clean up the scandals'' of their stars. 
 2002 film ''Rollerball.'' Donna Dubrow Producer who was involved in a divorce from Mr. McTiernan. Kirk Kerkorian Billionaire casino and hotel owner. Lisa Bonder Kerkorian In a paternity and child support battle with former husband, Mr. Kerkorian. Edward L. Masry Lawyer. Kissandra Cohen Sued Mr. Masry for sexual harassment. Ron Meyer Universal Studios president. Bilal Baroody Neighbor of Mr. Meyer, who wanted to collect a debt from him. Robert Pfeifer Former head of Hollywood Records. Erin Finn Former girlfriend of Mr. Pfeifer. Kenneth Starr Business manager (not related to the Whitewater prosecutor). Sylvester Stallone Sued Mr. Starr, his former business manager. Chris Rock Comedian and actor. Monika Zsibrita Model who had a liaison with Mr. Rock. Courtney Love Musician. Dana McCauley Ms. Love's personal assistant. Client of Martin D. Singer (David M. Halbfinger, Allison Hope Weiner and Archie Tse/The New York Times; Pellicano photograph by Brian Vander Brug/The Associated Press)(pg. A14) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The onetime superagent and Disney president Michael S. Ovitz, top left, the comedian and actor Chris Rock, middle, and the singer and actress Courtney Love all called Anthony Pellicano, above, when they needed someone to solve their problems. (Photo by George Wilhelm/Los Angeles Times) Chart/Photos: ''On Either Side of a Private Eye's Gaze'' Anthony Pellicano, left, cut a wide, but tangled, path through Hollywood. Sometimes he was hired by the lawyers for famous people. Other times he was hired by the famous people themselves. In some of these cases, investigators have charged that Mr. Pellicano used illegal methods to gather information on the targets. The chart details the major players in a sampling of his more noteworthy cases. The Players Michael S. Ovitz One-time Hollywood superagent. One of the founders of the Creative Artists Agency. President of the Walt Disney Company from 1995 to 1996. Founded the Artists Management Group in 1998. The Targets James Casey Agent who sued Artists Management and Mr. Ovitz over a finder's fee. Arthur Bernier Agent who sued after being fired from Artists Management Group. Kevin Huvane, Richard Lovett, Bryan Lourd Top agents at Creative Artists. Anita Busch, Bernard Weinraub Reporters who wrote articles for The New York Times about Mr. Ovitz's financial problems. Ron Meyer President and chief executive of Universal studios since 1995. Was Mr. Ovitz's partner at Creative Artists Agency. David Geffen One of the founders of Dreamworks. Mr. Ovitz believed Mr. Geffen was out to get him. Ron Burkle Supermarket mogul and former business partner of Mr. Ovitz. The Lawyers Clients of Robert J. Nachsin Client of Terry N. Christensen Mr. McTiernan and Mr. Kerkorian were also clients of Dennis Wasser Client of Martin D. Singer Brad Grey Head of Brillstein-Grey Entertainment and chairman of Paramount Pictures since 2005. Garry Shandling Accused Mr. Grey, his former manager, of stealing from him
 sued and later settled. Vincent Zenga, his lawyer, friends and relatives Unsuccessfully sued Mr. Grey over profits from ''Scary Movie.'' Andrew Stevens President of Franchise pictures. Stephen Brown Heads Intertainment USA which sued Franchise. John LaViolette (pictured) represents Intertainment. Taylor Thomson Canadian media heiress and aspiring actress. Pamela Miller (former nanny to Ms. Thomson's child), Michael Kolesa (the child's father). Adam Sender Hedge fund manager and art collector. Aaron Russo Was sued by Mr. Sender over an investment in a startup film company. Jacqueline A. Colburn Then wife of Mr. Colburn. Richard D. Colburn Wealthy arts benefactor who was involved in a divorce from Ms. Colburn. John McTiernan Movie director. Charles Roven Producer of Mr. McTiernan's

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WIRETAPPING (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ARRESTS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); CONSPIRACY (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); ETHICS (70%); SCANDALS (70%) Motion Pictures; Surveys and Series; Wiretapping and Other Eavesdropping Devices and Methods; Ethics; Detectives (Private); Motion Pictures

PERSON: RON MEYER (69%); DAVID GEFFEN (69%); RON BURKLE (64%); CHRIS ROCK (59%) David M Halbfinger; Allison Hope Weiner; Anthony Pellicano

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Hollywood (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



423 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10 40 Die in Lebanon as Army And Qaeda Militants Clash Fierce clashes erupted between Lebanese Army soldiers and Islamic militants tied to Al Qaeda in the northern Lebanese town of Tripoli, leaving 23 Lebanese soldiers and 17 militants dead and dozens injured. A car bomb exploded in a parking lot in a Christian section of eastern Beirut, killing one person and wounding 10 others. A1 India Faces Electricity Hurdle According to the Planning Commission of India, 600 million people -- roughly half the population -- are off the electric grid. The electricity crisis is becoming all the more acute because of the roaring pace of the country's economic growth and the new material aspirations it has generated. A1 6 U.S. Soldiers Killed in Iraq Six American soldiers and their interpreter were killed by a hidden roadside bomb in western Baghdad, the military said, in one of the deadliest attacks against American troops in the capital in recent months. 
A8 Israeli Airstrike Kills 8 in Gaza The Israeli Air Force struck the home of a Hamas Parliament member in Gaza, killing eight people, Palestinian hospital officials said. The Parliament member was not in the house at the time. A3 Afghan Bomber Strikes Market At least 10 people were killed and 32 were wounded when a suicide bomber struck at a crowded market in the southeastern Afghan province of Paktia, the provincial police chief said. News agencies said the death toll later rose to 14, quoting doctors at the local hospital. A8 Bush Meets with NATO Chief President Bush welcomed the NATO secretary general to his home in Crawford, Tex., for two days of a meetings focusing on holding together the fragile coalition fighting in Afghanistan and on dealing with new tensions with an assertive Russia. A8 Integrating Gay Soldiers Since the British military began allowing homosexuals to serve in the armed forces in 2000, none of its fears -- about harassment, discord, blackmail, bullying or an erosion of unit cohesion or military effectiveness -- have come to pass, according to the Ministry of Defense, current and former members of the services and academics specializing in the military. A8 NATIONAL A12-17 New Group of Leaders Widen Evangelical Agenda The death of the Rev. Jerry Falwell highlighted the fact that the evangelical Christian movement has shifted in potentially momentous ways, with members of a new generation of leaders who have mostly eschewed the partisan approach of their forebears and have broadened the movement's agenda. A1 Concern Over Immigration Bill The Senate is set to begin debating a major immigration bill, but leading members of Congress and employers, who helped shape the bill, expressed unhappiness, alarm and concerns that the bill would take more time and could face significant hurdles. A1 Detective to Hollywood's Stars The evidence uncovered in federal agents' raid of the office of Anthony Pellicano, the private detective known for his clientele of Hollywood moguls, has so far turned up documents and hundreds of recordings, that provide a vicarious tour through the dysfunctional heart of Hollywood. A1 Three Dead in Idaho Shooting An assault on a courthouse in Moscow, Idaho, by a gunman with an assault weapon left three people dead and two wounded. Police officials have not released the identity of the gunman or those injured and have said that they have no information on the gunman's motive. A12 Telecom Company to Be Sold Alltel, the wireless telephone company, agreed to be sold to a consortium of private equity firms for $27.5 billion, making it perhaps the largest buyout ever in the telecommunications industry. A15 Candidates to Unveil Proposals Two presidential candidates plan to unveil domestic policy proposals today, with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton calling for a $5 billion plan for universal pre-kindergarten classes and Senator John McCain urging more efficiency and ethics in government. A12 Whales Swim Down Coast Two injured Humpback whales, which were near West Sacramento and about 90 miles off course from their seasonal migration, appeared to be heading in the right direction, moving downriver toward the Pacific and were trailed by Coast Guard boats. A12 Response to Carter Criticism The White House responded to former President Jimmy Carter's blistering critique of President Bush in kind, calling his comments ''sad'' and Mr. Carter himself ''irrelevant.'' A17 NEW YORK/REGION B1-8 Study Puts Price Tag On Nature in New Jersey A report commissioned by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection has put a dollar value on the state's natural resources, like the Pine Barrens and the Jersey Shore, in a move that environmentalists and others hope will allow polluters to be fined more accurately for the damage they cause. B1 Saving Hip-Hop's Birthplace Clive Campbell, known as D.J. Kool Herc, believes the west Bronx building in which he invented hip-hop in 1973 should be declared a landmark. The building's residents agree, and there is a growing movement to place the building on the National Register of Historic Places. B1 BUSINESS DAY C1-7 China to Invest in Blackstone The Chinese government has announced that it will acquire a $3 billion stake in the Blackstone Group, the private equity firm, in the country's first effort to diversify its $1.2 trillion in foreign exchange reserves beyond United States Treasury bills and into commercial enterprise. C1 Murdoch Family Ties The relationship between Rupert Murdoch and his six children has come under new scrutiny in the three weeks since Mr. Murdoch offered $5 billion to buy Dow Jones, publisher of The Wall Street Journal. C1 Premiere Parties Downsized With demanding corporate parents, their Wall Street partners and restive shareholders all looking to cut down on extravagant spending, studio executives have been quietly trimming the premiere budgets for movies, sometimes giving filmmakers cash for a private dinner, or even forgoing the party altogether. C1 Diagnostics Firms Merge Hologic, the leader in breast cancer diagnostics, has announced a deal to acquire Cytyc, a leader in diagnostics for cervical cancer. The deal is valued at $6.2 billion. C1 Business Digest C2 OBITUARIES B6 Anthony M. Brooks A British undercover agent dispatched to France to lead a network of saboteurs who delayed German reinforcements for weeks after the Normandy invasion during World War II, he was 85. A19 ARTS E1-10 Musician on the Rise Things are coalescing creatively for Stew, a middle-aged musician with a devoted cult following whose new musical called ''Passing Strange,'' opened to enthusiastic reviews. He plans to start shooting a Sundance Institute-supported movie in the fall, and a documentary about him is slated for release later this year. E1 SPORTSMONDAY D1-10 U.S. Bid for America's Cup Ends The United States' quest for the America's Cup ended in a defeat for BMW Oracle Racing. It lost to Luna Rossa of Italy, which won the sixth race of the Louis Vuitton Cup semifinals to clinch the best-of-nine series, 5-1. D1 EDITORIAL A20-21 Editorials: Why this scandal matters; a lifeline for the parks; targeting human trafficking; final homecoming. Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof and Paul Krugman. Crossword E6 Crossword E6 Metro Diary B2 TV Listings E9 Weather A16

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); IMMIGRATION (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HAMAS (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); HOSPITALS (71%); BULLYING (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); POLICE FORCES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); HAMAS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) ISRAEL (94%); LEBANON (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



424 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: In a Time of High Anxiety, A Sedative of the Occult

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE coming television season looks as if executives at the big broadcast networks might have turned over the creation of their schedules to the Munsters, the Addams family and Rod Serling -- with an assist from Darrin, the adman on ''Bewitched.''
 Such speculation does not seem so far-fetched after last week, when the broadcasters offered Madison Avenue previews of their prime-time lineups for 2007-8. Almost a dozen of the new series that viewers are being asked to watch will conjure up elements of science fiction, fantasy or the supernatural.
 The casts of characters include vampires, clairvoyants and immortals, some of whom can revive the dead or travel through time. They will be featured on shows like ''Pushing Daisies'' and ''Eli Stone'' on ABC; ''Moonlight'' on CBS; ''Reaper'' on CW; ''The Sarah Connor Chronicles'' and ''New Amsterdam'' on Fox Broadcasting; and ''Bionic Woman,'' ''Chuck'' and ''Journeyman'' on NBC. 
 A Hispanic network, Telemundo, is joining the parade of ghoulies and ghosties with a telenovela, ''Las Brujas de South Beach,'' about three long-leggedy witches from the past who seek revenge in modern-day Florida. 
 Those newcomers join fanciful series being brought back from previous seasons, including ''Lost'' on ABC, ''Ghost Whisperer'' on CBS, ''Smallville'' and ''Supernatural'' on CW and ''Heroes'' and ''Medium'' on NBC.
 The networks run a risk in filling their schedules with so many series of the same kind. ''People are not looking for a genre, a program type,'' said Steve Sternberg, executive vice president for audience analysis at Magna Global in New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Rather, what viewers seek are shows ''that are like nothing else already on, and nothing like each other,'' Mr. Sternberg said, citing three hits from 2006-7: ''Ugly Betty'' on ABC, ''Shark'' on CBS and ''Heroes.''
 Yet the popularity of ''Heroes,'' which ends its first season tonight, is widely thought to be the inspiration for the escapist trend for next season. NBC is even hoping that lightning will strike twice; it is planning a six-episode spinoff, ''Heroes: Origins,'' expected in spring 2008.
 What makes ''Heroes'' so successful is that it is ''a pop culture parable of empowerment of the little guy,'' said John Rash, senior vice president and director of broadcast negotiations at Campbell Mithun in Minneapolis, also part of Interpublic.
 The prevalence of supernatural plots ''is reflective of increasing anxiety -- personal, economic and national'' that pervades the American mood, said Mr. Rash, who was in New York last week to attend the networks' presentations.
 The broadcasters also introduced spooky series for the 2006-7 season, Mr. Rash noted, but they made the mistake of offering plot lines ''that were too close to home,'' tackling subjects like domestic terrorism, kidnapping and hostage-taking.
 Tellingly, none of those shows -- which included ''The Nine'' on ABC, ''Vanished'' on Fox and ''Kidnapped'' on NBC -- are returning. 
 Most of the coming new shows ''are playing to viewers' desire to be in fantasyland,'' said Shari Anne Brill, senior vice president and director of programming at Carat USA in New York, part of the Carat division of the Aegis Group, adding, ''The real world has become such a horrendous place that people are looking for magic to avoid the tragic.''
 The series for 2007-8, Ms. Brill said, are ''either about the fantastic world of the spiritual and the supernatural, or the lifestyles of the rich and heinous.''
 She was referring to another type of escapist program that will populate the broadcast network lineups: dramas and comedy-dramas about glamorous, wealthy and gorgeous people living in big cities.
 Among the series fitting that description are ''Big Shots,'' ''Cashmere Mafia,'' ''Dirty Sexy Money'' and ''Private Practice,'' all on ABC; ''Cane,'' on CBS; ''Gossip Girl,'' on CW; and ''Lipstick Jungle,'' on NBC.
 Some of those shows are evocative of hits past and present, said Lyle Schwartz, a managing partner at GroupM in New York, part of the WPP Group, who oversees national broadcast research and marketplace analysis.
 Mr. Schwartz described ''Big Shots,'' featuring Dylan McDermott as one of four chief executives, as ''a male version of 'Desperate Housewives,' '' which will return in the fall for a fourth season on ABC.
 Two new series reminded Mr. Schwartz of ''Sex and the City.'' One, ''Cashmere Mafia,'' is about four female executives; the other, ''Lipstick Jungle,'' concerns three high-powered friends.
 The resemblance is no coincidence: ''Cashmere Mafia'' is from Darren Star, executive producer of ''Sex and the City,'' and ''Lipstick Jungle'' is based on a book by Candace Bushnell, whose writing inspired ''Sex and the City.''
 ''Gossip Girl,'' based on a series of books about teenagers on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, drew praise from Jason Kanefsky, senior vice president and group account director at MPG in New York, part of Havas.
 ''It could be a breakout hit,'' Mr. Kanefsky said, appealing to ''an upscale, female, A- and B-county audience,'' using the term for the largest TV markets.
 ''And it's also a good place for upscale product integration,'' he added, laughing, recalling a clip shown at the CW presentation featuring the T-Mobile Sidekick pocket messenger, which was called by its brand name.
 When asked to forecast which of the new series have the potential to become hits, Mr. Kanefsky listed several in addition to ''Gossip Girl.'' They included ''Big Shots''; ''Cane,'' about a Hispanic family in Miami that is played by a cast led by Jimmy Smits; and ''Journeyman,'' about a time traveler, which he likened to a previous NBC hit, ''Quantum Leap.''
 Among the newcomers with more doubtful prospects, Mr. Kanefsky cited ''Viva Laughlin'' on CBS, a comedy-drama about a Nevada casino owner and other characters who will break into song.
 ''Unless it's 'West Side Story,' '' Mr. Kanefsky said, ''it's 'Cop Rock.' '' That was a 1990 series on ABC with singing policemen, which has become shorthand for a notorious TV flop.
 Ms. Brill of Carat USA said that CBS ought to be ''given credit for trying a few different things,'' like ''Kid Nation,'' a reality series in which 40 children ages 8 to 15 spend 40 days on their own in a town in New Mexico.
 Even so, ''I would want to know a lot more about 'Kid Nation,' '' she said, before recommending that clients buy commercial time during the series. For instance, Ms. Brill asked, ''Where are the parents?''
 Mr. Schwartz of GroupM also reserved judgment about ''Kid Nation'' until he has seen more of it.
 ''I won't leave my kids alone with each other for an hour, let alone 40 days,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: An unsettling discovery in a scene from ''Reaper,'' coming to CW. (Photo by Michael Courtney/CW)
 In ''New Amsterdam'' on Fox, a police detective has been granted eternal life. (Photo by Jeff Neira/Fox) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (70%) Television

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (81%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (81%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (69%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); MINNESOTA, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



425 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: From Beaches to Pine Barrens, a Study Puts Values on New Jersey's Natural Assets

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

 BODY:
The New Jersey Pine Barrens are known for a lot of things: ghostly legends of a bat-winged Jersey Devil; weekend canoeing among mossy bogs; a place where Tony Soprano and company like to dump their dead. 
 The Pine Barrens, it turns out, also have an environmental value of about $1,476 an acre a year, based on their ability to provide the earth with water, animal habitat and pollination, according to a report being released today.
The report, by economists commissioned by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, tries to put a dollar value on the state's natural resources, from the Jersey Shore to the Kittatinny Mountains, to places like, well, Weehawken.
 Beaches like Sandy Hook and Sea Girt, with their environmentally essential sand dunes, had the highest value per acre per year, about $42,000. 
 New Jersey's cities, which occupy more acreage than almost any other topography in the state, had no environmental value, except for parks, playgrounds and other occasional green spaces. Neither did the rest stops on the New Jersey Turnpike.
 The report grew out of an environmental theory that is controversial in some quarters, but seems to be gaining some mainstream adherents. In recent years, number crunchers have been putting dollar values on peat bogs and coral reefs around the world. 
 Wetlands in Florida, another recent study reported, are worth $11.3 billion each year, or about $3,190 per acre, just for storm protection. In New York, where wetlands are much scarcer, the total is $271 million, or about $20,691 per acre per year. Advocates of the study of ''natural capital'' or ''ecosystem services'' -- imagine Adam Smith running the Sierra Club -- say it is a way to give greater legitimacy to environmental arguments, and make people realize more fully what they give up if they sacrifice nature. 
 ''It's kind of making it clear that these are valuable assets and need to be stewarded for the public good,'' said Robert Costanza, director of the Gund Institute for Ecological Economics at the University of Vermont and one of the foremost advocates of this approach. 
 The New Jersey study was done by Dr. Costanza and others at the Gund Institute, including Matthew Wilson and Austin Troy, as well as staff members at New Jersey's Department of Environmental Protection. To finance the study, the state received $200,000 in grants from two foundations. 
 The researchers analyzed studies of wetlands, forests and other aspects of the environment. They also assessed the cost of providing artificial equivalents of services the natural world provides, like flood protection. The study also considered the costs necessitated by damage to the environment and the price people would be willing to pay for outdoor recreation. 
 By putting price tags on features of the natural world, Dr. Costanza and others reason, polluters can be fined more accurately for the damage they cause. Should an oil spill ruin New Jersey's entire coastal shelf, for example, state officials might cite the report's estimate of an environmental value of $1,299 per acre per year as they tried to recoup damages from those responsible.
 New Jersey is the most densely populated state in the nation, filled with car-clogged shopping malls and cursed with the pungent perfume of oil refineries and chemical companies. 
 It is also, of course, graced with refuges like the Delaware River Valley and the Pine Barrens, which lost 14,000 to 17,000 acres of trees and brush last week in a fire started by a flare dropped at a military firing range.
 The researchers calculated values for each type of natural resource, like freshwater wetlands ($11,568 an acre a year), croplands ($866), grasslands ($77) and what the report called urban green spaces ($2,473). 
 In general, the coast and far southern reaches of the state tended to have the most environmental value, the report said, exceeding $8,000 an acre a year in some areas.
 Economists in this field calculate each value on a per-year basis, as opposed to its value right now, which Dr. Costanza likened to renting a property versus owning it. 
 The present value, Dr. Costanza said, can be calculated by dividing the annual value by 0.03. So beaches, at $42,147 per acre per year, would be worth $1.4 million per acre in today's dollars, and forests, at $1476 per acre per year, $49,200, he said.
 Environmentalists and regulators plan to use such figures as ammunition against developers aiming to build in forests, or to bolster arguments for environmental regulations or preservation money from state legislatures.
 ''One of the most significant challenges we constantly face here is the idea of sprawl,'' said Lisa P. Jackson, commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection. ''I think it is important when we deal with people on the economic growth side to be able to use the common language of dollars and cents when we talk about the land we're trying to save.''
 Dr. Costanza and the other researchers concluded that New Jersey's total natural capital is worth about $18 billion per year. Nature, he says, turns out to be about as economically valuable to New Jersey as the state's construction industry. 
 ''Developers on one side are doing studies showing that development brings jobs and economic growth, and municipal officials are eager for anything that could keep property taxes down,'' said William J. Mates, a project manager with the Department of Environmental Protection, who worked on the report. 
 He continued: ''What's been lacking on the other side is a quantified picture of natural resources. We can make the case qualitatively till the cows come home, but now we can say, 'Hey, there are economic losses if we convert farmland to housing.' ''
 Some economists feel that putting a price on the environment is meaningless. Some environmentalists shudder at expressing nature's worth in numbers.
 ''To approach the issue of biodiversity as if it were an exercise in global bean-counting is fundamentally wrongheaded,'' wrote Timothy C. Weiskel, an environmental ethicist, in an essay while he was director of Harvard's environmental ethics and public policy program. 
 Mark Sagoff, a philosopher specializing in environmental policy at the University of Maryland, said the approach was ''just a politically correct exercise.'' 
 The benefits that nature provides either ''can't be cut and divided,'' are ''already priced by the market, like timber and farmland,'' or ''are too cheap to measure, like wind,'' he said.
 Such an approach will backfire against environmentalists if they argue against development by saying a wetland or forest is economically valuable, Dr. Sagoff added. That will only cause a private landowner to demand more money for the land, money the government cannot afford to pay. 
 The state has a trust fund to buy land for preservation. But just last week, Gov. Jon S. Corzine worried some environmental advocates when he said he would not support a referendum on borrowing $1.75 billion over the next 30 years to replenish the fund. The governor said he preferred to add to the fund by selling off state assets like toll roads and the lottery, rather than borrowing.
 Patrick J. O'Keefe, chief executive of the New Jersey Builders Association, said attaching economic value to natural resources was ''valid'' and ''meritorious,'' but could increase the cost of available land and reduce the acreage that could be developed.
 ''If our policies to reduce flood hazards are accomplished in ways that increase the cost of housing,'' Mr. O'Keefe said, ''those who are priced out of the housing market therefore have to find shelter in circumstances that may be less healthful and less safe.''
 Dr. Costanza is comfortable pushing the envelope. In 1997, he and other researchers created a stir by estimating that the total value of the natural world averaged $33 trillion a year, nearly twice what was then the world's gross national product of $18 trillion.
 This year, he and others formed a corporation called Earth Inc., which will, among other things, produce ''earth shareholder reports'' that will put dollar values on everything from rain forests to snail darter habitats.
 Dr. Costanza also helped draft legislation in Vermont to establish a trust to collect fees from polluters. The money would be used, among other things, to pay the owners of private land to keep it forested. 
 A similar agency exists in Costa Rica. It collects money from urban water users and hydroelectric dams and uses those fees to pay landowners to grow trees instead of raising cows. 
 Still, even eco-friendly Vermont is not quite ready for such a proposal, said the bill's sponsor, State Senator Hinda Miller. 
 ''There were some people who said, 'I really like this idea,' '' Ms. Miller said. '' 'Not today, not this moment, not this session, but I really get it.' '' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Pine Barrens were said to be worth $1,476 per acre per year. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B4) Chart/Map: ''Giving Nature a Dollar Sign'' Economists have placed a dollar value on the services provided by the natural resources in each of New Jersey's watersheds - from the flood protection of coastal dunes to the carbon sequestered by forests. The coast and southern portion of the state are generally more valuable. Map of New Jersey shows Average annual ecosystem value, per acre, in 2004 dollars. Major cities have no calculated value. (Source by Robert Costanza, Matthew Wilson and Austin Troy of The New Jersey Ecosystem Service Valuation Project)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); BEACHES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); WETLANDS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (63%) Environment; Finances

PERSON: Pam Belluck

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



426 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; THE EMPIRE ZONE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg's Traffic Report

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was in Albany last week lobbying state lawmakers on his PlaNYC, a raft of measures -- many needing state aid and approval -- to ensure that New York City grows in an environmentally sustainable way. Legislators were treated to a PowerPoint presentation in which Mr. Bloomberg showed slides depicting a dire future of street traffic and overloaded subways, and he asked for new daytime fees for driving in much of Manhattan, new subway construction and other measures. 
 ''By 2030, every major road into Manhattan will be above capacity,'' blares the caption on one slide. A notation on it says that demand for vehicle crossings from New Jersey into Midtown -- the Lincoln Tunnel, in other words -- will increase by 38 percent by 2030, and demand for mass transit will rise by a whopping 56 percent.
That turned heads among some lawmakers, environmentalists and planning experts, including supporters of the mayor's effort. 
 After all, when Mr. Bloomberg wanted to build a stadium on the West Side of Manhattan, his aides energetically argued against fears that it would create a traffic glut. Moreover, an environmental impact statement prepared by the city in 2004 stated that background traffic near the proposed stadium would increase by only 11 percent by 2025, apart from any traffic created by the new development.
 ''Anyone who drives up and down the West Side knows the data they produced to support the stadium was absurd,'' said Eric T. Schneiderman, a Democratic state senator from Manhattan. ''I'm glad they've finally got the accurate data and are using it to try and reduce, rather than increase traffic.''
 But city officials said the two reports were consistent. The 38 percent figure represents demand for the tunnel, rather than capacity -- which the PlaNYC presentation notes will allow for only about 10 percent growth, roughly as much as the impact statement predicted for the broader neighborhood near the stadium site. The implication, they said, was exactly what the mayor has argued: The city needs more rail capacity, the daytime driving fees (known as congestion pricing) and other measures.
 ''The point we're making is, the traffic might go up 10 percent, but if we wind up with constrained access to the central business district, we're going to choke off access to the region's main economic driver,'' said Rohit T. Aggarwala, the city's director of long-term planning and sustainability. NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (76%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%) Roads and Traffic; Delays (Transportation); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Nicholas Confessore; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



427 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: Emphasis Shifts For New Breed Of Evangelicals

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO and LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
The evangelical Christian movement, which has been pivotal in reshaping the country's political landscape since the 1980s, has shifted in potentially momentous ways in recent years, broadening its agenda and exposing new fissures.
 The death of the Rev. Jerry Falwell last week highlighted the fact that many of the movement's fiery old guard who helped lead conservative Christians into the embrace of the Republican Party are aging and slowly receding from the scene. In their stead, a new generation of leaders who have mostly avoided the openly partisan and confrontational approach of their forebears have become increasingly influential.
Typified by megachurch pastors like the Rev. Rick Warren of Saddleback Church in Orange County, Calif., and the Rev. Bill Hybels of Willow Creek Community Church outside Chicago, the new breed of evangelical leaders -- often to the dismay of those who came before them -- are more likely to speak out about more liberal causes like AIDS, Darfur, poverty and global warming than controversial social issues like abortion and same-sex marriage. 
 But the conservative legacy of the religious right persists, and abortion continues to be a defining issue, even a litmus test, for most evangelicals, including younger ones, according to interviews and survey data. 
 ''The abortion issue is going to continue to be a unifying factor among evangelicals and Catholics,'' said the Rev. Leith Anderson, president of the National Association of Evangelicals, who is often held up as an example of the new model of conservative Christian leaders. ''That's not going to go away.''
 The persistence of abortion as a core concern for evangelical voters, who continue to represent a broad swath of the Republican base, could complicate efforts by Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has been leading the Republican presidential field in nationwide polls, to get primary voters to move past the issue and accept his support for abortion rights. The broader impact that the changing evangelical leadership may have on politics appears to be just beginning. Many evangelicals remain uneasy about the other leading Republican contenders, Mitt Romney, because of his Mormon faith and his past support for abortion rights, and Senator John McCain of Arizona, who has long had a tenuous relationship with conservative Christians. 
 The evangelical movement, however, is clearly evolving. Members of the baby boomer generation are taking over the reins, said D. G. Hart, a historian of religion. The boomers, he said, are markedly different in style and temperament from their predecessors and much more animated by social justice and humanitarianism. Most of them are pastors, as opposed to the heads of advocacy groups, making them more reluctant to plunge into politics to avoid alienating diverse congregations.
 ''I just don't see in the next generation of so-called evangelical leaders anyone as politically activist-minded'' as Mr. Falwell, the Rev. Pat Robertson or James C. Dobson, he said. 
 Mr. Warren, 53, who wrote the spiritual best seller ''The Purpose-Driven Life,'' has dedicated much of the past few years to mobilizing evangelicals to eradicate AIDS in Africa. Even so, he remains theologically and socially quite conservative. He tempers the sharper edges of his beliefs with a laid-back style (his usual Sunday best is a Hawaiian shirt). Although he does not speak from the pulpit about politics, he sent a letter before the 2004 presidential election to pastors in a vast network who draw advice from him, urging them to weigh heavily ''nonnegotiable'' issues like abortion, stem cell research and same-sex marriage from a biblical perspective.
 Mr. Warren, along with Mr. Hybels, 55, and several dozen other evangelical leaders, signed a call to action last year on climate change. The initiative brought together more mainstream conservative Christian leaders with prominent liberal evangelicals, such as the Rev. Jim Wallis of Sojourners and the Rev. Ronald J. Sider of Evangelicals for Social Action, who have long championed progressive causes. Notably absent from the list of signatories were several old lions of the Christian right, some of whom were openly critical of the effort: Mr. Falwell; Mr. Robertson, 77; and Mr. Dobson, 71, founder of Focus on the Family.
 Another evangelical standard-bearer who did not sign the statement was Charles W. Colson, 75, founder of Prison Fellowship Ministries, who said in an interview that there were many environmental groups behind the statement that were hostile to evangelical causes. Nevertheless, he said he appreciated the direction that younger evangelical leaders are taking the movement.
 ''What's happening today is the evangelical movement is growing up,'' he said. ''The evangelical political conscience today is much more sophisticated than it was in the early '80s.''
 The Rev. Joel C. Hunter, 59, a Florida megachurch pastor who signed the climate change statement, stepped down last year as the president-elect of the Christian Coalition over what he said was resistance among members of the organization's board to expanding its concerns beyond the usual social issues. He has been active in encouraging evangelicals to speak out on issues like global poverty, and signed on this month to an evangelical declaration on immigration reform that called for a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants. He is critical of the tactics and rhetoric employed by the old religious right.
 Despite the changes in the movement, Mr. Hunter predicted that Mr. Giuliani would not garner much of the evangelical vote because of his liberal views on social issues.
 ''There always will be in the evangelical movement a strong identification with what we call the traditional moral issues -- abortion, marriage between a man and a woman, addiction to pornography,'' he said.
 A poll conducted this year by the Pew Research Center showed that white evangelical Protestants have similar concerns to other Americans, including the war in Iraq, education and the economy, but a far greater percentage continue to cite tackling the ''moral breakdown'' in society as a key priority. They remain solidly Republican.
 ''While I think a lot of their leaders have begun to talk about other things, like Darfur and the environment, this remains a pretty social conservative group in some respects,'' said Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center. ''There doesn't seem to me to be any sign of a sea change.'' 
 Indeed, the survey showed that fewer evangelicals assigned top priority to protecting the environment than did the overall population, and that roughly the same number of evangelicals identified alleviating poverty as a top priority as did the general population. Meanwhile, evangelicals identified reducing illegal immigration as a priority at a much greater percentage than the population as a whole.
 In a separate survey in 2004, John C. Green, a senior fellow at the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life, however, placed evangelicals into three camps -- traditionalist, centrist and modernist -- based on the how rigidly they adhered to their beliefs and their willingness to adapt them to a changing world. The traditionalists are evangelicals who are usually labeled as the Christian right, while the centrists might be represented by the newer breed of evangelical leaders, who remain socially and theologically quite conservative but have mostly sought to avoid politics. The two camps are roughly the same size, each representing 40 to 50 percent of the total. 
 Experts agree, though, that the centrist camp is growing. Estimates of the number of evangelicals nationwide vary, depending on how they are counted and how the term is defined, but Mr. Green put it at 26.3 percent of Americans.
 The full electoral implications of the shift that is occurring in the movement will likely unfold over the next decade or more, several religious experts and activists said, as opposed to in this next presidential election cycle.
 ''I think we're talking about a 20-year effect,'' said Andy Crouch, an editor at Christianity Today.
 The tremors of change are, nevertheless, detectable, especially among younger evangelicals. Many are intrigued by Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, who has demonstrated the ability to speak convincingly about his faith on the campaign trail, as a presidential candidate.
 ''The person I just hear about all the time is Obama because he is seen as spiritually serious, even if people know he's really kind of a liberal Christian,'' Mr. Crouch said.
 Gabe Lyons, 32, is emblematic of the transformation among many younger evangelicals. He grew up in Lynchburg, Va., attending Mr. Falwell's church. But he has shied away from politics. Instead, he heads the Fermi Project, a loose ''collective'' dedicated to teaching evangelicals to shape culture through other means, including media and the arts. 
 ''I believe politics just isn't as important to younger evangelicals as it has been for the older generations because we recognize from experience that politics does not shape the morality of a culture,'' he said. ''It simply reflects what the larger culture wants.''
 There are other signs of attitude changes among younger evangelicals. Recent surveys conducted by the Barna Group show that younger ''born again'' Christians are more accepting of homosexuality than older ones and are less resistant to affording gays equal rights. But on abortion, they remain almost as conservative as their parents -- more fodder for both political parties to weigh as they consider the future. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Rick Warren has encouraged fellow evangelicals to work to eradicate AIDS in Africa. (Photo by Damian Dovarganes/Associated Press)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ABORTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); HISTORY (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (53%); MARRIAGE (52%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%) United States Politics and Government; Evangelical Movement; Election Issues; Public Opinion; Abortion; Presidential Election of 2008; United States Politics and Government; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF EVANGELICALS (54%) Pew Research Center

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) Michael Luo; Laurie Goodstein; Jerry (Rev) Falwell; Rudolph W Giuliani

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



428 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: AFTER AIDING BILL ON IMMIGRATION, EMPLOYERS BALK

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 20 

 BODY:
Employers, who helped shape a major immigration bill over the last three months, said on Sunday that they were unhappy with the result because it would not cure the severe labor shortages they foresee in the coming decade.
 In addition, employers expressed alarm as they learned that the Senate bill would require them to check a government database to verify that all current and former employees -- aliens and citizens alike -- were eligible to work in the United States.
 The Senate begins debating the bill on Monday. Supporters, including the White House, had hoped that senators would finish work on it this week, before the Memorial Day recess. But leading members of Congress said Sunday that the bill would take more time and could face significant hurdles.
 The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said that the immigration bill ''can't possibly be completed before Memorial Day.'' On the ABC News program ''This Week,'' Mr. McConnell said the Senate would need at least two weeks to digest and amend the bill, which he described as ''a big, complicated piece of legislation.'' 
 A delay over Memorial Day would give the public an opportunity to weigh the issue, while lawmakers are home, and would give critics more time to hone their arguments.
 The speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, expressed concern on Sunday about a central element of the bill, under which the government would establish a point system to evaluate would-be immigrants, giving more weight to job skills and education and less to family ties.
 ''I have serious objection to the point system that is in the bill now, but perhaps that can be improved,'' said Ms. Pelosi, a California Democrat. She asserted that this part of the bill, ardently sought by the White House and Republican senators, could undermine ''family unification principles which have been fundamental to American immigration.''
 Besides revamping visa preferences, the bill would also offer legal status to most of the nation's 12 million illegal immigrants and would increase the penalties for businesses that employ them.
 In the last few years, employers have become a potent force in the debate on immigration, pleading with Congress to authorize more visas for both high- and low-skill workers. 
 Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, a bill co-author, said the point system was devised so America ''can compete for the best minds that exist in the world.''
 Robert P. Hoffman, a vice president of Oracle, the business software company, endorsed that goal but said the bill would not achieve it.
 ''A merit-based system for allocating green cards may sound good for business,'' said Mr. Hoffman, who is co-chairman of Compete America, a coalition of high-tech companies. ''But after reviewing the proposal, we have concluded that it is the wrong approach and will not solve the talent crisis facing many U.S. businesses. In fact, in some ways, it could leave American employers in a worse position.
 ''Under the current system,'' Mr. Hoffman said, ''you need an employer to sponsor you for a green card. Under the point system, you would not need an employer as a sponsor. An individual would get points for special skills, but those skills may not match the demand. You can't hire a chemical engineer to do the work of a software engineer.''
 David Isaacs, director of federal affairs at the Hewlett-Packard Company, said in a letter to the Senate that ''a 'merit-based system' would take the hiring decision out of our hands and place it squarely in the hands of the federal government.'' 
 Employers of lower-skilled workers voiced another concern.
 ''The point system would be skewed in favor of more highly skilled and educated workers,'' said Laura Foote Reiff, co-chairwoman of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, whose members employ millions of workers in hotels, restaurants, nursing homes, hospitals and the construction industry.
 Denyse Sabagh, a former president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said, ''This bill does not give employers what they need, and some are pretty upset about it.''
 Under a 1986 law, employers are supposed to ask job applicants for verification that they are eligible to work in the United States. The Senate bill would require employers to check an electronic database established by the government.
 ''We cannot ask our employers to verify somebody here unless we help them,'' President Bush said last week.
 But Susan R. Meisinger, president of the Society for Human Resource Management, which represents 215,000 executives, said: ''The Senate proposal would require employers to reverify the identity and employment eligibility of 145 million Americans who are currently employed. That's unworkable. The burden on government and the private sector could cause the system to crash.''
 The government has been testing an employee verification system like the one envisioned in the Senate bill. Federal investigators have found a significant error rate because information in the database is sometimes inaccurate or outdated.
 Business executives have been working closely with Hispanic groups, like the National Council of La Raza, in seeking a comprehensive immigration bill. These alliances were on display last week at a dinner celebrating the 25th anniversary of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigrant advocacy group. 
 Sponsors of the dinner included Wal-Mart, the Service Employees International Union, the United States Chamber of Commerce, Marriott, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and the National Restaurant Association, which says that restaurants are the ''No. 1 employer of immigrants.''
 Randel K. Johnson, a vice president of the Chamber of Commerce, explained the reason for employers' keen interest in the issue: ''We do not have enough workers to support a growing economy. We have members who pay good wages but face worker shortages every day.''
 Carlos M. Gutierrez, the secretary of commerce, said that immigration was essential to economic growth because ''without it, we will have significant labor shortages in key occupations.''
 Mr. Hoffman, the Oracle software executive, said ''we have hundreds of unfilled jobs'' for which American citizens cannot be found. Mr. Hoffman said the company had identified people from India, China and other countries who were receiving advanced degrees from American universities and would make excellent software engineers, but Oracle could not arrange visas for them.
 Companies with lower-skilled workers have a similar problem. The Labor Department estimates that 37 percent of all new jobs in the next decade will be filled by people with a high school education or less. Of the 10 occupations expected to see the largest job growth, only two require a college degree. On-the-job training is usually enough for the other occupations, like retail sales clerks, home health aides and food service workers, the department said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Randel K. Johnson of the United States Chamber of Commerce. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); REFUGEES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LABOR SHORTAGES (79%); FOREIGN LABOR (79%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Foreign Labor; Law and Legislation; Immigration and Refugees; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL (71%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%) Robert Pear; Nancy (Speaker) Pelosi

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



429 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1814 words

HEADLINE: Meet the Murdochs

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS

 BODY:
Last August, a management conference for senior executives of the News Corporation in Pebble Beach, Calif., featured a range of attention-getting speakers, like Prime Minister Tony Blair, former President Bill Clinton and the rocker-humanitarian Bono. 
 Less noticed was the presence of all six children of Rupert Murdoch, the News Corporation's billionaire chairman and chief executive.
A year earlier, Lachlan Murdoch, the oldest son, left his executive role at his father's company and moved back to Australia. Around the same time, a dispute over its future control surfaced as Rupert Murdoch tried to have his two young children with his third wife, Wendi Deng, added as equal partners to the Harris Trust, the entity through which the family controls around 30 percent of the company's shares.
 The reunion of the far-flung Murdoch clan that weekend was an unspoken sign that a rift in the usually tight-knit family was on the mend. In addition to dining privately one night as a family, Mr. Murdoch's four grown children, all of whom have children of their own, mingled at a tea party for Grace, 5, and Chloe, 3. 
 ''We have come through some tough tests,'' Rupert's second daughter, Elisabeth Murdoch, said in an interview last week. ''Not only have we come through it intact, we have actually solidified our position as a family -- both on a professional level and a private level.'' 
 The family's cohesion has been under new scrutiny in the three weeks since the senior Mr. Murdoch, 76, offered $5 billion to buy Dow Jones & Company, publisher of The Wall Street Journal. Mr. Murdoch has long wanted to add the newspaper, America's second largest behind USA Today, to his global assemblage of publishing, film, television, satellite and Internet businesses. 
 He has been making his pitch in a series of letters to members of the Bancroft family, who control 64 percent of Dow Jones voting stock and who have been stewards of the paper for nearly a century. One of his arguments is purely economic -- a hard-to-beat 67 percent premium to where Dow Jones stock had traded. 
 But it may take more of Mr. Murdoch's considerable powers of persuasion to convince the Bancroft family that one of the most important institutions in journalism will be in the good hands of another media family for years to come. 
 ''We've got journalism in the blood,'' Mr. Murdoch said in a recent interview. ''I've tried very hard to imbue my own children with the same thing. It carries special responsibilities.''
 His hope is that the Bancrofts will at least agree to hear him out, and possibly meet him and his grown children. Mr. Murdoch is in frequent contact with his children -- just as he seems to be with each outpost of his business -- and has discussed his ambitions for Dow Jones with them. 
 Current and former company executives have speculated that if the News Corporation is successful in acquiring Dow Jones, it could set the stage for either Lachlan, 35, or his brother James, 34, (or both) to return to the company in senior roles -- a new wrinkle in the continuing parlor game. 
 After Lachlan left, Mr. Murdoch said he hoped he would return to the company one day. A person close to the News Corporation said Rupert mentioned the possibility of bringing James back to headquarters when laying the groundwork for a Dow Jones bid last year. Two people close to James, however, said he was committed to running the British pay-television service BSkyB and had no immediate plans to move to the United States.
 Neil Chenoweth, a journalist with The Australian Financial Review who wrote a biography of Mr. Murdoch in 2002, said, ''The children have always been very close to each other and to their father.'' 
 There's no question that for Mr. Murdoch's children, particularly the three from his second marriage -- Elisabeth, Lachlan and James -- media is all in the family. Elisabeth and Lachlan both worked for their father but left the company after clashing with other executives and yearning to strike out on their own. 
 Elisabeth, 38, who is known as Liz, owns a burgeoning television production business in London and is credited with urging her father to buy the United States rights to the show that became ''American Idol'' -- which is broadcast on the News Corporation's Fox network and is the most popular program on television. Lachlan, who grew up at the company's Australian newspaper arm, is on its board and has begun investing in his own media ventures. And James, chief executive of BSkyB, is considered by people in and outside the company as the most likely Murdoch to succeed their father atop News Corporation, a $26 billion conglomerate. 
 Others in the family also play roles. Prudence, 48, Mr. Murdoch's oldest daughter from his first marriage, is married to a senior executive in the company's Australian newspaper business. And Mr. Murdoch's wife, Wendi, who was born in China, has taken an interest in its ventures there and helped negotiate the introduction of the company's MySpace Web business with Chinese partners. 
 Elisabeth Murdoch seconded her father's characterization of how family members were brought up, saying that as children they would read the newspapers around the kitchen table and discuss issues and ideas with him. 
 ''It's about what media can do in terms of empowering individuals and being aspirational and democratizing -- that's what's always motivated my dad,'' she said, adding that criticism that he has taken serious papers like The Times of London down-market after buying them are untrue. 
 ''I think it's nonsense about this dumbing down. He has respected media assets across the board and imbued life into them.''
 So far, beyond an initial statement onMay 1 that family members controlling 52 percent of Dow Jones voting stock opposed Mr. Murdoch's offer, the Bancrofts have been quietly mulling their intentions. Mr. Murdoch made his offer in the belief that some of the three dozen family members who own a stake in the controlling block can be persuaded to come over to his side -- particularly since the family has not played a hands-on role in running the company for decades and professional managers have struggled to translate its world-class journalism into a world-class business. 
 What the News Corporation might look like once Mr. Murdoch is no longer at the helm is unknown, but Mr. Murdoch's four oldest children are bound by a trust to keep the company together for decades, according to people familiar with its terms. 
 ''It's easy for the kids to be united right now,'' Mr. Chenoweth said, ''but give it 10 to 20 years as their interests diverge and the reality of shared power becomes more restricting.'' 
 Mr. Murdoch has said he would eventually like one of his children to succeed him atop the company, though he has not designated a successor and says he will leave such a decision to the board. It is a subject Mr. Murdoch was reluctant to discuss for awhile -- after Lachlan resigned in July 2005. 
 Lachlan Murdoch said publicly that he wanted to return to Australia -- where he had run the company's original newspaper business a grandfather, Keith Murdoch, had first built -- to strike out on his own. 
 But with his departure, company officials also acknowledged that Lachlan had come to feel undermined by his father in making decisions. 
 His departure was not altogether different from Elisabeth's resignation from a role at overseeing BSkyB's programming in London in 2000. ''For Lachlan and I, we had to do our own things,'' she said.
 James, she noted, had already done things on his own before joining the company, including starting a music label after dropping out of Harvard. And James seemed determined to be as autonomous within the company as he could, first by running its Star television businesses in Asia while based in Hong Kong and, since 2003, taking the top post at BSkyB, in which the News Corporation holds a major stake. James Murdoch declined to comment for this article, and Lachlan did not respond to requests for an interview.
 When Lachlan left the company, word emerged that relations among all the grown children and their father had become strained by Mr. Murdoch's efforts to have Grace and Chloe added to the Harris Trust. (The family's 30 percent stake is expected to increase to 38 percent when the News Corporation soon completes a transaction to sell DirecTV to Liberty Media, giving Mr. Murdoch the most solid grip on the company's control in years.) 
 As a consequence of his divorce in 1999 from second wife, Anna Murdoch-Mann, Mr. Murdoch's four grown children were given clear and equal eventual control over the Harris Trust. While they were willing to grant their father's wish that their new half-sisters be equal financial partners in the trust, the children and Mrs. Mann did not want to concede any decision-making control -- or dilute their interests in the trust if Mr. Murdoch had any more children. 
 After several chilly months, the family quietly settled the dispute without lawyers or another intermediary. As part of the resolution, each of the Murdoch children were granted $100 million worth of News Corporation stock from the trust for their personal use -- a distribution that occurred earlier this year. 
 As billionaire dynasties go, the grown Murdoch children have never acted particularly entitled. Elisabeth has pursued acquisitions and the kinds of envelope-pushing moves her father is often associated with to build her television production company, Shine, into one of the largest independent producers in Britain with some $250 million in revenue. 
 James has proved something of a chip off the old block, amid skepticism about nepotism, to increase the price of BSkyB's stock by 24 percent since taking over in November 2004. He resigned from the News Corporation board over his father's objections to try to demonstrate that he would be his own man at BSkyB. 
 The most technologically oriented of the Murdochs, he diversified that company's video service into broadband and telephone, and has engaged in a corporate feud with Richard Branson of the Virgin Group. James also helped in getting his father to champion environmental issues and to announce that the News Corporation's global operations would become carbon-neutral.
 Lachlan has maintained low visibility since returning to Australia. He is said to be quite happy and to remain close to his father. A company he started, Illyria, is run from the head office of the News Corporation's newspaper subsidiary in Sydney, and he is frequently seen coming and going. He recently took a stake in an Indian company that manages actors and athletes there. 
 One place the family is planning to see one another all together is at 100th-birthday festivities in two years that are being planned for Rupert's mother, Dame Elisabeth Murdoch, who lives in Australia. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rupert Murdoch and his wife, Wendi Deng, left, with son Lachlan, right, and his wife, Sarah O'Hare. (Photo by Torsten Blackwood/Agence France-Presse)(pg. C1)
Rupert Murdoch, above, with his mother, Dame Elisabeth Murdoch, in November 2005. Below left, James Murdoch, chief executive of the television broadcaster BSkyB. Right, his younger sister, Elisabeth Murdoch, owner of a television production business. (Photo by Tony Lewis/Reuters)
(Photo by Dylan Martinez/Reuters)
 (Photo by Dave M. Benett/Getty Images)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PUBLISHING (77%); COMMON STOCK (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); DIVESTITURES (71%) Newspapers; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Biographical Information

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); DOW JONES & CO INC (82%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Dow Jones & Co; News Corp; Wall Street Journal

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (94%); TONY BLAIR (88%); JAMES MURDOCH (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BONO (57%) Rupert Murdoch; Bancroft Family; Richard Siklos

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



430 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 214 words

 BODY:
 CHINA TRADE TALKS -- A high-level delegation from China visits the United States this week for a second round of talks aimed at easing trade tensions. The meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday will be the second session of the Strategic Economic Dialogue, which the two countries began in December in Beijing. The Chinese delegation will be led by Vice Premier Wu Yi, right. EARNINGS REPORTS -- Retailers will report quarterly earnings, including Saks (Monday); American Eagle Outfitters (Tuesday); Target, Abercrombie & Fitch, Talbots and Wet Seal (Wednesday); and Ann Taylor and Gap (Thursday). 
Other earnings reports will come from Campbell Soup and Lowe's (Monday); Medtronic (Tuesday); Bank of Montreal (Wednesday); Barnes & Noble, Hormel, Toll Brothers and Toronto-Dominion (Thursday); and Royal Bank of Canada (Friday). ECONOMIC SIGNALS -- A fresh look at the housing industry will come from reports on new-home sales for April (Thursday) and existing home sales for March (Friday). The only other significant economic report will be the durable goods report for April (Thursday). ET CETERA -- The Standard & Poor's benchmark 500-stock index will be flirting with a record during the week, barring a slump. The bond market closes early on Friday ahead of the Memorial Day weekend. 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BONDS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); RETAILERS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); EXISTING HOME SALES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); DURABLE GOODS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (83%); BANK OF MONTREAL (70%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (69%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (57%); MEDTRONIC INC (56%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (83%); AFT (FRA) (83%); BMO (TSX) (70%); BMO (NYSE) (70%); RY (TSX) (69%); RY (SWX) (69%); RY (NYSE) (69%); AEO (NYSE) (57%); MDT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (70%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (56%)

PERSON: WU YI (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (53%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (76%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



431 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; ADDENDA; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 401 words

 BODY:
 Verizon Consolidates Agencies And Adds Wireless Assignments 
 In one of the largest recent account consolidations, Verizon Communications is combining duties for its consumer and business services with assignments for Verizon Wireless to increase effectiveness and efficiency. Verizon, which spends about $1.9 billion a year on advertising, will reduce its agency roster to 10 from more than 20. 
 Gaining the most in the consolidation is the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. For instance, McCann Erickson Worldwide, which creates ads for Verizon Wireless, gains the consumer assignment from McGarry Bowen in New York and the business assignment from Euro RSCG Worldwide in New York, part of Havas.
The MRM division of the McCann Worldgroup takes the assignment for direct marketing from another Interpublic agency, Draft FCB, and the Momentum division gains the duties for sponsorships and event marketing from IMG. Some assignments are unaffected; for example, the Zenith unit of ZenithOptimedia, part of the Publicis Groupe, continues to handle media buying. Accounts 
 Miller Brewing, Milwaukee, part of SABMiller, chose the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty to create campaigns for Miller Lite beer. The assignment, with spending estimated at $150 million, had been at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners, which resigned in March.
 Toys ''R'' Us, Wayne, N.J., selected Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos, Boston, a unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as its creative agency, replacing Y&R Advertising, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of the WPP Group. Spending was estimated at $90 million. Toys ''R'' Us is owned by private equity firms and a real estate developer. 
 Heineken USA, White Plains, N.Y., picked the Richards Group, Dallas, as the creative agency for Amstel Light beer, with spending estimated at $20 million. The assignment had most recently been handled by Publicis USA, New York, part of the Publicis Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe. Richards was a creative agency for two other beers, Corona Extra and Corona Light, from the early 1990s until October. Miscellany 
 Fox Broadcasting Company, Los Angeles, part of the News Corporation, reorganized its marketing department and formed an internal agency, Fox Infinity, to be led by Chris Carlisle, executive vice president for marketing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (79%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); EVENT MARKETING (73%); DIRECT MARKETING (72%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (72%); REAL ESTATE (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (58%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Advertising and Marketing; Account Changes; Cellular Telephones; Finances

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (95%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (94%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (91%); WPP PLC (90%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (86%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%); PUBLICIS USA (81%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (71%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (68%); NEWS CORP (63%); HAVAS SA (58%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (56%); SABMILLER PLC (56%); HEINEKEN USA INC (56%); MDC PARTNERS INC (55%); HILL HOLLIDAY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Verizon Communications; Verizon Wireless; Mccann Worldgroup; Interpublic Group of Cos

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (90%); WPP (LSE) (90%); PUB (PAR) (86%); NWS (NASDAQ) (63%); NWS (ASX) (63%); HAV (PAR) (58%); SOSAB (JSE) (56%); SAB (LSE) (56%); MDZ.A (TSX) (55%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (90%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007



432 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: Justices Rule in Favor of Telecoms

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS; AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court on Monday sided with the nation's largest local phone companies in a lawsuit by consumers alleging anticompetitive business practices.
 The court ruled 7-2 that the suit lacked any specifics in accusing the companies of secretly agreeing not to compete in each other's territories for local telephone and high-speed Internet service. 
It is not enough to make a bare assertion of conspiracy, Justice David Souter wrote in the majority opinion.
 Souter said the complaint alleging restraint of trade "comes up short." He said the consumers who filed the suit "have not nudged their claims across the line from conceivable to plausible."
 In dissent, Justice John Paul Stevens objected to the lower court's dismissal of the case without requiring a response from the phone companies. Federal rules, previous rulings and "sound practice mandate that the district court at least require some sort of response," Stevens wrote.
 The case stems from changes to the telecommunications law in 1996. The local phone companies were to open their monopoly markets to competition. In return, they were given the opportunity to enter long-distance business. At the time, the four companies controlled more than 90 percent of the market for local phone service.
 The defendants were Bell Atlantic Corp., BellSouth Corp., Qwest Communications International Inc. (NYSE:Q) , and SBC Communications Inc. (NYSE:SBT) Bell Atlantic is now Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZC) and SBC bought AT&T Inc. and the renamed company, AT&T, merged with BellSouth.
 The Supreme Court decision "embraces an important principle about protecting the freedom of firms to make unilateral decisions on what markets to enter or not enter," said John Thorne, senior vice president & deputy general counsel of Verizon Communications.
 Consumers represented by a prominent firm of plaintiffs' attorneys sued when the companies kept to their own territories rather than competing. The consumers also alleged the local phone companies conspired to keep smaller companies from competing successfully in the larger companies' markets.
 The companies said there are innocent explanations; that it is understandable each company would decide individually against devoting scarce resources to the risky enterprise of entering new markets.
 The Bush administration supported the phone companies, saying the lawsuit "fails to provide concrete notice of the alleged wrongdoing." Those filing such lawsuits, said the Justice Department's solicitor general, need to be able to point to allegations of particular jointly attended meetings or to involvement of alleged conspirators in joint activities.
 A federal judge dismissed the case, saying the lawsuit contained no direct factual allegations that the companies had conspired.
 Companies with "similar information and economic interests will often reach the same business decisions," the federal court said.
 The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals sided with the consumers, concluding those filing the lawsuit had stated "a plausible claim of conspiracy."
 The case is Bell Atlantic v. Twombly, 05-1126.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (76%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); JUDGES (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (94%); CENTURYLINK INC (84%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (82%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (94%); VZ (NYSE) (94%); CTL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (84%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (82%)

PERSON: JOHN PAUL STEVENS (73%); DAVID SOUTER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



433 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: American Cities and the Great Divide

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
A public high school teacher in Brooklyn told me recently about a student who didn't believe that a restaurant tab for four people could come to more than $500. The student shook his head, as if resisting the very idea. He just couldn't fathom it.
 ''How much can you eat?'' the student asked. 
When I asked a teacher in a second school to mention the same issue, one of the responses was, ''Is this a true story?''
 A lot of New Yorkers are doing awfully well. There are 8 million residents of New York City, and roughly 700,000 are worth a million dollars or more. The average price of a Manhattan apartment is $1.3 million. The annual earnings of the average hedge fund manager is $363 million.
 The estimated worth of the mayor, Michael Bloomberg, ranges from $5.5 billion to upwards of $20 billion.
 You want a gilded age? This is it. The elite of the Roaring Twenties would be stunned by the wealth of the current era. 
 Now the flip side, which is the side those public school students are on. One of the city's five counties, the Bronx, is the poorest urban county in the nation. The number of families in the city's homeless shelters is the highest it has been in a quarter of a century. Twenty-five percent of all families with children in New York City -- that's 1.5 million New Yorkers -- are trying to make it on incomes that are below the poverty threshold established by the federal government.
 The streets that are paved with gold for some are covered with ash for many others. There are few better illustrations of the increasingly disturbing divide between rich and poor than New York City.
 ''I get to walk in both worlds,'' said Larry Mandell, the president of the United Way of New York City. ''In a given day I might be in a soup kitchen and also in the halls of Fortune 500 companies dealing with the senior executives. I've become acutely aware that the lives of those who are well off are not touched at all by contact with the poor. It's not that people don't care or don't want to help. It's that they have very little awareness of poverty.''
 I'd always thought of the United Way as a charitable outfit. But Mr. Mandell has committed his organization to the important task of raising the awareness of Americans and their political leaders to the pressing needs of America's cities, and especially the long-neglected, poverty-stricken neighborhoods of the inner cities.
 It's a measure of how low the bar has been set for success in America's cities that New York is thought to be doing well, even though 185,000 of its children ages 5 or younger are poor, and 18,000 are consigned to homeless shelters each night. More than a million New Yorkers get food stamps, and another 700,000 are eligible but not receiving them. That's a long, long way from a $500 restaurant tab.
 Only 50 percent of the city's high school students graduate in four years. And if you talk to the kids in the poorer neighborhoods, they will tell you that they don't feel safe. They are worried about violence and gang activity, which in their view is getting worse, not better. 
 This is what's going on in the nation's most successful big city.
 Mr. Mandell is upset that urban issues, which in so many cases are related to poverty, have played such a minuscule role in the presidential campaign so far. ''People need to become more aware of the issue of poverty,'' he said. ''It's discouraging, frankly, to have it barely mentioned at all in the debates.
 ''It's true that John Edwards is the one candidate who seems concerned about it, but to actually have the issue come up just briefly in the debates, and not at all in the Republican debate -- well, my view is that we have to change that.''
 The United Way of New York has issued a white paper on ''America's Urban Agenda'' that says, ''The greatest single challenge most American cities face lies in the increasing divide between the haves and have-nots.''
 There was a time, some decades ago, when urban issues and poverty were important components of presidential campaigns. Now the poor are kept out of sight, which makes it easier to leave them farther and farther behind. We've apparently reached a point in our politics when they aren't even worth mentioning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POVERTY RATES (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (65%); HOMELESSNESS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (50%) Urban Areas; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008; United States Economy; Debating

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%) Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



434 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; FIGHTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: An Ultimate Warrior Is Used to Fighting for His Life

BYLINE: By CHRIS DIXON

 BODY:
When asked to assess his state of mind before stepping into a steel cage for a fight, Brian Stann provides a matter-of-fact reply that also stands as a stark warning. 
 ''For me, I think it's probably different from other mixed martial arts fighters,'' said Stann, a 26-year-old first lieutenant in the Marines. ''I'm used to a fight that's for my life.''
In May 2005, Stann and some fellow members of the Third Battalion, Second Marine Division, faced machine guns, suicide bombers, improvised explosive devices and rocket-propelled grenades in a fight to control the area around a bridge along the Euphrates River in Iraq. The battle earned Stann a Silver Star, the military's third-highest award for heroism. 
 After returning home in March from a second deployment, Stann is juggling the responsibilities of life as a husband, future father, Marine officer and having an undefeated record in World Extreme Cagefighting, known as W.E.C. A six-year-old offshoot of the Ultimate Fighting Championships, W.E.C. features a smaller, octagonal cage and a wider variety of weight classes. 
 With piercing blue eyes, and standing 6 feet 1 inch, Stann seems composed of 205 pounds of muscle. He is an imposing figure with a disarmingly friendly demeanor whose workouts twice a day would render an average athlete incoherent.
 From his desk at Camp Lejeune, N.C., Stann's duties might include weapons logistics, combat training or counseling a young corporal who may need some advice. 
 Stann was born on Yokota Air Force Base in Japan. When he was 2, his father abandoned his family, and his mother, Elizabeth Cieless, moved Brian and his sister back among their extended family in Scranton, Pa., he said in an interview at Camp Lejeune. From childhood, Cieless said in a telephone interview, her son's G.I. Joe collection and leadership skills were remarkable. 
 ''He was just a born leader,'' she said. ''When he was a little boy, he was always the one in charge; the kids would just trail after him.''
 Stann played quarterback from age 9 through high school. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy, where he majored in economics and played linebacker. 
 But leading troops was his ultimate aspiration.
 ''It was a calling to know that I could go to the Naval Academy, get a phenomenal education, play Division I football and then at the end of it, become a warrior,'' he said.
 Commissioned by the Marines in 2003, Stann trained to become an infantry officer at Quantico, Va., and immersed himself in martial arts.
 On May 8, 2005, Stann and some 40 fellow Marines advanced on the Iraqi town of Karabilah, near the Syrian border, in an effort to take a bridge that served as a key conduit for insurgents. 
 While the Marines rolled across an open swath of farmland, as Stann said, one of their tanks was destroyed by an improvised explosive device. With four wounded Marines inside the tank, enemy forces began to concentrate machine gun and rocket-propelled grenade fire on it.
 Stann and Sgt. Luke Miller climbed into the tank to extricate the four Marines while Cpl. Richard Mcelhinny took over the tank's machine gun and began firing. A helicopter soon evacuated the wounded Marines.
 Stann said that after seizing the land south of the bridge, he and his troops endured three more days of combat as they battled to keep supply lines open through Karabilah. He said that all of his men survived the nearly six days of combat.
 The details of these encounters could not be independently verified. 
 On New Year's Day 2006, when the Eagles played the Redskins in their regular-season finale, Stann was on the 50-yard-line of Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia asking his longtime girlfriend, Teressa Ruspi, an Eagles cheerleader, to marry him.
 A week later, in his off-duty time, Stann competed in his first professional mixed martial arts event, Sportfight 14, defeating a fighter named Aaron Stark by a technical knockout in the first round.
 Correspondence with Scott Adams, the president of W.E.C., led Stann into his first match. 
 On June 15, 2006, Stann won his first fight, defeating Miguel Cosio in 16 seconds. On March 24, Stann defeated Steve Cantwell, an unbeaten fighter, in 41 seconds after a flurry of punches, earning a purse of $6,000. On June 3, in a match to be televised by Versus, Stann will take on Craig Zellner, who has a 4-1 record and whose last victory took only 31 seconds. When asked how she felt about her husband's competition in W.E.C. events, Teressa Stann said it did not begin to compare with the anxiety of deployment. 
 ''I have no fear for him,'' she said. ''It's like, Babe, this is something you should be doing. There's not many things he talks about from Iraq or his past. He kind of keeps it inside. But when he's in the cage, he can let those emotions out.''
 Stann said he was fighting to honor four lance corporals who died while serving under his command. On April 29, First Lt. Travis Manion, one of his closest friends, died fighting in Anbar Province. Stann said that ''my next fight will also be in his honor.'' Stann called cage fighting among the best ways he can prepare himself to lead his troops. 
 ''No one's shooting at me when I'm in a cage,'' he said. ''But close the cage on me, and what's going through my mind is that I'm still fighting for my life. If they're going to beat me, they're going to have to go to the level I'm willing to go. I've been places they haven't. I've seen things they haven't. They're not just fighting me when I'm in there. They're fighting all that past experience as well.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brian Stann, above left and at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina, has an undefeated record in World Extreme Cagefighting. (Photo by Karen Tam for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARTIAL ARTS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); NAVIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); ATHLETES (87%); BOMBINGS (76%); MILITARY BASES (76%); MILITARY TRAINING (76%); FAMILY (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); AIR FORCES (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%) Mixed Martial Arts 

PERSON: Chris Dixon; Brian Stann

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (68%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



435 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: The Immigration Debate, in Full Cry

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Immigration Deal'' (editorial, May 20):
 Your arguments are sound and clear. The progressive bloc has yielded entirely too much to the anti-immigrant and produced an accord that is unjust and unworkable. I would add here, also, that comprehensive immigration reform must include discussion on issues of trade and serious economic assistance to poorer countries that will genuinely help them develop viable economies and other social structures.
Until that happens, nothing will change the flow of men and women into our country in their effort to maintain their human dignity and that of their families. Until that happens, we owe them whatever assistance we can offer. The legality of their presence is irrelevant to the more basic human and divine demand that we look after our brothers and sisters in need. (Rev.) Andrew P. Connolly Manorhaven, N.Y., May 20, 2007 To the Editor: 
 Most of the ''braying'' you accuse illegal immigration opponents of doing is present in this editorial. ''Brittle hard-liners,'' ''Know-Nothings'' and ''homegrown zealots'' demonizes anyone with legitimate concerns about illegal immigration, a process that has contributed to overcrowded schools, prisons, unreimbursed health and social services, and has increased our population of poor people. But it has provided a bonanza for slumlords and employers who want a constant stream of low-paid workers. 
 Those are not American traditions, and where is it written that it is the nation's ''duty'' to welcome people who do not respect our borders or immigration policy? Keith F. Kramer Green Bay, Wis., May 20, 2007 To the Editor:
 Family reunification is the single largest source of legal immigration to the United States and should be limited to spouses and minor children only for several reasons.
 First, many immigrants bring in aged parents, at first promising to support them, and then later renege on their promises and place their aged parents, who never worked a day in the United States, on Social Security disability and other social services.
 Second, by bringing in a sibling or an adult child, the sponsoring immigrant sets off chain migration, beginning with the sponsored immigrant's immediate family. His spouse can then eventually bring in her parents and siblings, thus lengthening the chain.
 Some of these siblings or children may have been brought in to work in small family businesses. Since these family members are dependent upon the good will of their sponsors, it is unlikely that they will complain about hours, wages and working conditions and may accept a room in the sponsor's house as part of pay, adding to overcrowded housing.
 Finally, by family reunification we are allowing people who have been in the United States for a relatively short amount of time and who may hold citizenship in their country of origin as well as the United States to have more say about whom we allow into this country than people whose ancestors fought and died in our wars, survived our tough economic times, built the United States into the world power that it is today, paid taxes for generations, and who owe allegiance to the United States alone. Is this wise? Deena Flinchum Blacksburg, Va., May 20, 2007 To the Editor: 
 Whatever immigration plan is adopted, it will be expensive, but the editorial does not address financing. A fair and realistic shot at the American Dream should be affordable and sustainable for a chance to hit the mark. 
 Employers who exploited cheap labor promoted illegal immigration. They should contribute to the financing of the plan. Olivier de Messieres Boyds, Md., May 20, 2007 To the Editor:
 Regarding ''the bad'' in the immigration deal, please explain how this country can afford to allow extended family members of currently illegal ''migrants'' to come here.
 Given that there are approximately 12 million illegals who could be granted legal status under the proposed legislation, there could be dozens of additional poor and unskilled relatives allowed to follow each illegal. The resulting millions of additional immigrants would put a burden on social services that would certainly be overwhelming. 
 As it is, just try going to a hospital emergency room in an area with many illegals. Just who is going to subsidize this burden and how? Why is it this country's ''obligation'' to accept all these immigrants? Michael Molesworth Tucson, May 20, 2007 To the Editor:
 A major tenet of the current immigration bill is based on a false premise that United States borders are out of control. The Mexican government has exported its unemployment problem for many years, and what is out of control is the Mexican border.
 With that shift in emphasis, the current immigration bill should not concern itself with an elaborate United States barrier or increased patrols; rather, the bill should demand of our Mexican neighbors that they secure their own border. 
 An effective inducement would modify Nafta agreements and put a stiff surcharge on Mexican imports for each illegal immigrant who crosses the Mexican border into the United States. It could be made even more effective by progressively doubling the surcharge for any recidivist illegal immigrants. Further incentive would be to rapidly reduce the surcharges as soon as Mexico has put its house in order. P. G. Kosky Cumming, Ga., May 20, 2007 To the Editor:
 Thank you for bringing to our attention the good, the bad and the awful of the deeply flawed compromise between the White House and the Senate. Touted as a ''grand compromise,'' it is neither ''grand'' nor much of a ''compromise.''
 We pride ourselves as a nation that upholds family values. Yet our laws keep the nuclear families of lawful permanent residents apart in excess of five years. The legislation does not address this glaring unfairness of our immigration system; it only worsens an already very bad law.
 Further, the legislation erodes family unity for United States citizens and their relatives. While we need to bring illegal residents into the mainstream, under no circumstance should we do it by denying speedy family unity to those who have obeyed the laws of the land. Parminder Chhabra Cambridge, Mass., May 20, 2007 The writer is a co-founder of UniteFamilies.org. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lewis Scott) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); POPULATION SIZE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); LEGISLATION (65%); SOCIAL SECURITY (64%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CITIZENSHIP (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Law and Legislation; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: UniteFamilies.org

PERSON: Andrew P (Rev) Connolly; Keith F Kramer; Deena Flinchum; Olivier De Messieres; Michael Molesworth; P G (Prof) Kosky; Parminder Chhabra

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (53%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%) United States; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



436 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: China Says Blackstone Deal Is Merely a Good Investment

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, May 21 

 BODY:
From the outside, the Chinese government's $3 billion purchase of a nonvoting stake in the Blackstone Group might look like a prelude to a broader campaign for control of foreign companies. 
 But a Chinese official ruled that out in an interview Monday, saying the purchase was simply a way to raise returns on overseas investments and did not signal any plan to take control of foreign companies.
In fact, the deal seems more to represent a move by China to pounce on a strategy many foreign banks have adopted in China: buy into a company just before it begins its initial public offering. That strategy has given many banks, like Bank of America and Goldman Sachs, significant initial gains, at least on paper, on their early investments. 
 The Chinese government moved quickly with Blackstone to make an investment before Blackstone holds its initial public offering, said Jesse Wang, chairman of the Chinese government agency that is managing the Blackstone deal on behalf of a new state investment company still being set up. 
 China said months ago that it was setting up the investment company to diversify the country's overseas investments beyond Treasury notes, bonds and other public securities.
 Mr. Wang added, however, that the new state investment company was not negotiating for more large stakes in overseas companies. The main goal of the company is to accumulate a broad portfolio of small stakes in many companies, he said. 
 The Blackstone transaction, ''is an individual case,'' Mr. Wang said in a telephone interview from Beijing. ''I assume the investment company will engage in portfolio investment rather than takeovers.'' 
 Sunday's transaction will transfer less than 10 percent of Blackstone's equity to the Chinese government, and is a nonvoting stake, Mr. Wang said. He said it was purely a financial investment in which the government did not expect to play a role in managing Blackstone, and he added that the Chinese government did not expect Blackstone to provide any advice in exchange for the investment.
 Nonetheless, the Blackstone investment stirred memories in the United States of the unsuccessful bid two years ago by Cnooc, a Chinese state-owned oil company, to acquire Unocal, an American oil company once known for the Union 76 brand of gasoline; Congressional opposition blocked that transaction. 
 Some in the United States have also been wary of any pattern of prominent Chinese acquisitions that might resemble acquisitions in the 1980s by Japanese investors of landmarks like Rockefeller Center and the Pebble Beach golf course.
 Mr. Wang went out of his way to try to allay those fears, saying that the new investment company would be more interested in investments like funds that buy shares in most or all of the stocks in broad indices that track stock markets.
 ''In the future, yes, we surely think we will invest in the index funds,'' he said.
 Mr. Wang is the chairman of China Jianyin, an operating unit of the Central Huijin Investment Company, a Chinese government agency that handles a broad array of transactions between Chinese state-owned companies and foreign investors. 
 Michael R. P. Smith, the chief executive of HSBC's Asian operations, said in an interview that few companies were likely to oppose the sale of minority stakes to the Chinese government.
 ''Too many shareholders just think for tomorrow, so in many ways they bring some stability,'' he said of the Chinese.
 In the Blackstone deal, the new state investment company will acquire a nonvoting stake at a 4.5 percent discount to the public offering price to be set in Blackstone's initial public offering later this year. 
 Blackstone filed an amended prospectus with regulators fleshing out the financial aspects of the offering. It plans to offer 133.3 million units at $29 to $31 each and is giving underwriters the option of selling 20 million more. At the maximum, the offering could raise $4.75 billion, an amount that does not include the $3 billion infusion from China. 
 The new filing also suggested that Blackstone will not quite reach the $40 billion valuation mark. Based on the firm's own estimate, the high end of the expected range would value the firm at about $33.6 billion, larger than Bear Stearns but smaller than Lehman Brothers.
 It is common in China for tycoons and large companies to take large stakes in a company before its initial public offering. Mr. Wang said that to some extent the state investment company would be following this general precedent. 
 The investment work of the agency is so fresh that it agreed to the Blackstone deal even before the Chinese government has decided on many details about how its investment agency will operate.
 The timing of the Blackstone deal two days before senior Chinese and American economic policy makers begin meeting in Washington was purely coincidental, Mr. Wang insisted. ''I don't think that I.P.O. schedule is coordinated'' with the Sino-American talks, he said.
 The new investment company is supposed to buy a broader array of assets than the central bank can purchase with its foreign exchange reserves. But the new investment company is still a long way from being established even as a separate legal entity. ''We hope it will be in operation before the end of this year, but I don't know,'' Mr. Wang said.
 China's State Council, the country's top government body, will inject capital into the company by putting in foreign exchange, but there has been no decision yet on how much money the company will have, Mr. Wang said. 
 ''When the new company is set up, it cannot possibly manage tens or even hundreds of billions of dollars'' unless it receives help from other government agencies, he added.
 Holding $1.2 trillion in foreign exchange reserves, as China does, can be a curse as well as a blessing, forcing tough decisions. Long before Sunday's investment, the managers of China's foreign exchange reserves had proved themselves unusually willing to venture beyond the Treasuries that make up the bulk of most countries' reserves. 
 Whereas countries like Japan have kept almost all of their reserves in Treasuries, the People's Bank of China has bought at least $100 billion of American mortgage-backed securities as well as large purchases of bonds denominated in euros and other currencies, people close to the purchases said.
 China's enormous role in financing the budget deficits of other countries is a somewhat delicate subject in China, with occasional postings on Chinese Web sites suggesting that the money could be better spent inside the country. The state-controlled media have largely ignored the issue and the postings have tended to disappear, a sign that the government is not allowing open discussion.
 The official Xinhua news agency waited more than 14 hours, until late Monday, to report the Blackstone announcement. 
 Part of the reason China has such large foreign exchange reserves is that it buys dollars on a vast scale to slow the rise of its currency, known as the yuan. If it were to invest the reserves domestically, the government would effectively have to sell dollars and buy yuan, which would drive up the value of the yuan and defeat the purpose of accumulating the reserves in the first place. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jesse Wang is chairman of the Chinese agency managing the Blackstone investment. (Photo by Nick Otto/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); DIVESTITURES (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); INDEX FUNDS (62%); GASOLINE (60%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Blackstone Group; Blackstone Group

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher; Jesse Wang

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



437 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: With an Immigration Compromise Committed to Paper, the Time for Scrutiny Begins

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
The debate over a sweeping bipartisan immigration bill got off to a fiery but confused start yesterday, since few lawmakers, and even fewer people around the country, had seen the full text of the proposal.
 The compromise bill that emerged last Thursday from weeks of closed-door discussions among Senate leaders and two cabinet secretaries -- Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez -- was more than 300 pages long.
 As late as the predawn hours Sunday, it was still being revised and tweaked by weary staff members for Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who is a chief author, and for other lead negotiators.
 It is an ambitious package made up of interlocking components intended to work together to create a new immigration system that will secure the nation's borders, provide a path to legal status for an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, halt illegal immigration in the future, reduce backlogs for immigrants who have waited to settle in the United States legally, and offer a temporary work force of skilled and unskilled workers for employers in the future. 
 Following is a breakdown of what the bill does, and where critics have said it falls short: BORDER SECURITY AND TRIGGERS -- The bill would greatly toughen border enforcement, eventually doubling the Border Patrol to 28,000 agents. Several border enforcement measures, known as triggers, must be in place before a temporary worker program can begin, and before illegal immigrants can gain their first legal visas. The triggers include installation of at least 370 miles of border fence and 200 miles of vehicle barriers.
 For another trigger, the Department of Homeland Security must create a new, fraudproof system to verify the legal status of all job applicants. Penalties for employers who hire illegal immigrants would be greatly increased, to $5,000 for a first offense and up to $75,000 and even jail for repeat offenses. Department officials estimated it would take 18 months to put the triggers in place. 
 The criticism: Border enforcement is not especially controversial. But employers say it is not realistic to expect that the new employee verification system will be ready in 18 months. LEGALIZING IMMIGRANTS -- The bill proposes a new kind of visa, a Z visa, for immigrants who were in the United States before Jan. 1, 2007, without legal papers.
 In a first stage, to begin six months after the bill became law, illegal immigrants would come forward to register with the Department of Homeland Security. Registration would be confidential, department officials said, and would be open for a one-year period. Once registered, immigrants would be on probation -- they could work legally but would not be able to travel freely outside the United States.
 In a second stage, after the triggers were in place, former illegal immigrants could complete their applications for Z visas, paying penalties. A family of four immigrants, for example, would have to pay fines and fees of at least $4,500. Administration officials said these could be paid in installments.
 Illegal immigrants' immediate family members who are already in the United States would qualify for Z visas, but they could not bring any family members from home. They can travel outside the United States and, after paying a $1,500 fee, renew the Z visa once every four years.
 After eight years, once the backlog of legal immigrant petitions is cleared, Z visa holders could apply to become legal permanent residents. They would have to show that they spoke English and pay an additional $4,000 fine. They would also have to return to their home countries to file the application for permanent status, but would not have to remain there while it was in process. It would take at least 13 years for a former illegal immigrant to become a United States citizen.
 The criticism: Many Republicans reject this program as an amnesty that rewards immigrants who broke the law. Grass-roots immigrant groups and lawyers who support granting legal status have assailed the fines as too high for working families. The bill's authors argue that the cost is less than what immigrants are now paying smugglers, or coyotes, to bring them across the border.
 ''I'm not sure that whether it is cheaper than a coyote is the economic standard we want to set,'' said Benjamin Johnson, director of the Immigration Policy Center in Washington, a nonpartisan research group.
 The requirement that applicants for permanent residence return home first is an unfair hardship for people from distant countries like China and the Philippines, said Marshall Fitz, director of advocacy at the American Immigration Lawyers Association. TEMPORARY WORKER PROGRAM -- After the triggers were in place, the bill proposes, there would be a vastly expanded program offering at least 400,000 visas a year for immigrants outside the country who want to come here temporarily to work. In a shift from recent decades, the program would include large numbers of nonagricultural workers, including meatpackers, landscapers and construction workers and those in other low-wage but high-demand occupations.
 Employers would have to show that they tried to recruit American workers before they could hire temporary immigrants, and they would have to pay the same wages they would pay Americans.
 Immigrants could change jobs, but only to another employer certified to participate in the program. They could come for three stints of two years each, but would have to leave the United States for a year between each stint. They would also have to pay for health insurance for any family members they brought.
 They would not be allowed to apply to become permanent residents through the program, but a good temporary employment record would help them if they wanted to apply through a separate merit program.
 The criticism: Employers say this plan fails to meet their needs for high-skilled workers, and places too much control in the hands of government bureaucrats. Democrats and union officials say it will create a vulnerable underclass of workers. FAMILY AND MERIT-BASED VISAS -- The bill designates as many as 440,000 visas a year to reduce the backlog of 4 million foreigners with family ties to the United States who have been waiting in the bureaucratic pipeline as long as 22 years, with the goal of eliminating the backlog in 8 years.
 It sets up a new point system that would be applied to a growing proportion of future immigrants. Points would be earned for job skills, education, English proficiency and employment history. In the first years, as much as 80 percent of immigration would still be based on family ties. After the backlog is cleared, merit-based immigration would gain importance.
 The criticism: Legal immigrants say the backlog reduction is too slow and discriminates against those who are trying to bring immediate family members from overseas. Immigration advocacy groups and the Roman Catholic Church say the merit system undermines the traditional family basis of the system in favor of high-skilled immigrants. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The immigration bill, finished Sunday, runs to more than 300 pages. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (92%); BORDER CONTROL (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation; Migrant and Foreign Workers; Citizenship; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (58%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%) Julia Preston

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



438 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court to Address State Tax Breaks for Bonds

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 21 

 BODY:
In a case with the potential to rattle, if not reshape, the market for state and municipal bonds, the Supreme Court agreed on Monday to decide whether states can continue to exempt interest on their own bonds from their residents' taxable income, while taxing the interest on bonds issued by other states.
 The preferential tax treatment for in-state bonds is longstanding and very common, offered by nearly all the states that have an income tax. State and local governments issued more than $350 billion worth of bonds a year from 2002 to 2006. 
The practice was, in fact, largely taken for granted until it was declared ''facially unconstitutional'' in January 2006 by the Kentucky Court of Appeals. That state court, ruling in a case brought by a Kentucky couple, George and Catherine Davis, who own bonds issued by other states, said the preferential tax treatment erected a barrier against interstate commerce in violation of the Constitution's commerce clause.
 In the only previous decision on the subject, an Ohio state appeals court upheld that state's preferential treatment of bond interest, in a 1994 decision that the Supreme Court declined to review. The fact that two state courts now disagree on such a fundamental question probably led the justices to conclude that the issue required their attention.
 The National Association of State Treasurers, without taking a bottom-line position, urged the justices to accept Kentucky's appeal. ''Only this court can resolve the uncertainty,'' the state treasurers said, adding: ''Regardless of the merits of the question presented, the federal Constitution should apply uniformly to all 50 states.''
 The tax-exempt status of state and municipal bonds permits issuers to borrow money at a lower interest rate because investors are willing to accept lower returns in exchange for not having to pay taxes on the interest they receive. The tax-exempt feature is very appealing to investors, as reflected in the popularity of mutual funds that offer baskets of a single state's public debt.
 Kentucky filed its Supreme Court appeal, Department of Revenue of Kentucky v. Davis, No. 06-666, in November. Rather than act immediately, the justices held the case while they were considering how to decide another case about the permissibility of state preferences under the commerce clause.
 On April 30, the court decided that case, United Haulers Association v. Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Management Authority, No. 05-1345. By 6 to 3, the court rejected a commerce clause challenge to a program in two upstate New York counties that required private haulers to deliver all solid waste to a single publicly owned landfill. It did not violate the commerce clause for the government to prefer itself over private-sector competitors, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. wrote for the majority.
 Ordinarily, once the court has decided a case, it sends back to the lower court any related case that it has been holding, so that the lower court can reconsider its ruling in light of the new Supreme Court decision. But in this instance, the justices evidently concluded that the solid-waste decision did not shed much light on what the commerce clause might have to say about preferential taxation of bond interest.
 In recent years, the court has been fairly aggressive about reining in state policies that could be described as protectionist. Two years ago, for example, the justices invoked the commerce clause to overturn laws in New York and Michigan that gave preferential treatment to in-state wineries.
 But the court is hardly of one mind, either on basic principles or their application. Two justices, Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia, do not accept the premise that the commerce clause, which in the constitutional structure is a grant of authority to Congress, imposes any limitation on activity by the states. On the other hand, the newest justice, Samuel A. Alito Jr., dissented last month from the solid-waste decision, writing that ''the public-private distinction drawn by the court is both illusory and without precedent.''
 In the latest case, Kentucky is raising an argument based on state sovereignty, objecting that the state court's analysis of the commerce clause ''commandeers Kentucky's tax laws to subsidize other states' public debt if it wishes to exempt its own debt from taxation.''
 In fact, the Kentucky Court of Appeals did not dictate a remedy for the constitutional violation it found. If the decision is upheld, the state will have the choice of exempting every state's bond interest, or none. 
 The case will be argued in the fall, with a decision unlikely before next spring. That means that the municipal bond market could be unsettled for months, said Alan D. Viard, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and a former Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas economist.
 In another action on Monday, the court dismissed a class-action antitrust suit against three former regional Bell companies that control nearly all the country's local telephone service. 
 Voting 7 to 2, the court held in an opinion by Justice David H. Souter that the complaint failed to contain evidence of an illegal agreement to restrain trade sufficient to impose on the defendants the burden of undergoing pretrial discovery. The dissenters were Justices John Paul Stevens and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
 The case, Bell Atlantic Corporation v. Twombly, No. 05-1126, had been closely watched for continued signs of the court's growing skepticism about complaints, in securities and antitrust litigation, that contain little more than bare accusations of wrongdoing. The plaintiffs in this case ''have not nudged their claims across the line from conceivable to plausible,'' Justice Souter said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); APPEALS (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (76%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%); LANDFILLS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Suits and Litigation; States (US) ; Tax Exemptions; Government Bonds

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF KENTUCKY (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF STATE TREASURERS (54%) Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (58%) Linda Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



439 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: An Old Steel Mill Retools To Produce Clean Energy

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: LACKAWANNA, N.Y., May 21 

 BODY:
Empty grain elevators and dormant railroad tracks line the Buffalo River to the east and Lake Erie to the west, interspersed with empty fields overgrown with gnarled shrubbery. Test wells that monitor decades of buried industrial waste dot the landscape. A passenger ship, rust overtaking its aqua paint, sits beside a decaying mill.
 The road from Buffalo to this city to the south offers a stark reminder of the region's faded past as a hub of industry and shipping. 
Yet in the past few months, a different sight has emerged on the 2.2-mile shoreline above a labyrinth of pipes, blackened buildings and crumbling coke ovens that was once home to a behemoth Bethlehem Steel plant: eight gleaming white windmills with 153-foot blades slowly turning in the wind off Lake Erie, on a former Superfund site where iron and steel slag and other industrial waste were dumped during 80 years of production.
 ''It's changing the image of the city of Lackawanna,'' said Norman L. Polanski Jr., the city's mayor and a former Bethlehem worker who lost his job when the company stopped making steel here in 1983. ''We were the old Rust Belt, with all the negatives. Right now, we are progressive and we are leading the way on the waterfront.''
 Christine Real de Azua, of the American Wind Energy Association, said Steel Winds, as this wind farm is known, is the largest to rise in a city, and according to the state Department of Environmental Conservation, it is the first to rise on land overseen by New York's brownfields program. (Brownfields are low-level toxic waste sites concentrated mainly around abandoned factories.)
 ''It's a way to convert the Rust Belt to the Wind Belt,'' Ms. Real de Azua said.
 The turbines, owned jointly by BQ Energy of Pawling, N.Y., and UPC Wind of Newton, Mass., are able to produce a total of 20 megawatts of electricity a year, enough to provide power to 7,000 homes, said the project manager, Mark Mitskovski. The companies involved in the project plan to sell the energy to individual customers or utilities.
 The company began construction of the wind farm in September 2006, six months after the federal Environmental Protection Agency declared the site clean enough to be removed from the Superfund list, allowing the state Department of Environmental Conservation to oversee its development.
 The windmills are a welcome change for an area buffeted by the loss of jobs and environmental problems since Bethlehem's steep decline began in the mid-1970s as cheaper imported steel, mainly from Japan, began flooding the United States.
 At its peak during World War II and through the boom years that followed, Bethlehem employed more than 20,000 people here, most living within walking distance of the plant. But as the jobs vanished, the city's population fell from a high of 30,000 in the 1960s to about 19,000 today.
 Smoke from the blast furnaces and coke ovens coated the mill town with a layer of red ore dust, and artificial clouds glowed several times each day, when rail cars tipped their loads of slag into Lake Erie, creating a lavalike flow visible from miles away.
 ''As a kid, we'd be at the beach and you'd see the ladle cars going out there 24 hours a day,'' said Michael Malyak, of Lackawanna's Steel Plant Museum, who was a shipping clerk at Bethlehem for eight years before becoming an elementary school teacher. ''The sky would light up, and you'd see this red-hot slag rolling down the hillside.''
 Mayor Polanski said that as dangerous and unhealthy as it was, ''it was a way of life.''
 And one that passed through generations. Like many of his classmates, Mr. Polanski, who is 58, followed his father to Bethlehem, getting hired as an apprentice pipe fitter.
 ''I graduated in June of '67, and at the end of July, I had a job at the steel plant,'' he said. ''I never figured I'd lose that job.''
 But as the lower-priced imported steel began to dominate the market, Bethlehem started to shrink. About 7,300 workers lost their jobs when the company stopped making steel in Lackawanna, leaving only the coke ovens and several finishing mills in operation.
 Bethlehem ended coke production in 2001, the year the company filed for bankruptcy. A much smaller mill that finishes galvanized steel and employs about 250 is now operated by Mittal Steel, which acquired Bethlehem's assets in 2005 in a merger with International Steel Group.
 About $300,000 in state and federal assistance was used to research wind patterns and evaluate the environmental impact, and the windmills each cost $4.5 million to build. Power lines left from the plant carry the electricity from the turbines, while paved roads, rail lines and an industrial port built by Bethlehem were used to bring much of the construction material to the site.
 ''It's much easier to do this on farmland somewhere,'' Mr. Mitskovski said. ''But all the things you would need to build in a green field setting are already here.''
 Steel Winds has permits to build two more turbines and plans to put up as many as 27 in all. This month, local officials announced plans to move a rail line and build new roads in an effort to open 400 more acres of brownfields at the former Bethlehem site for redevelopment and to revitalize the Lake Erie port there, which is large enough to handle eight oceangoing ships at a time.
 The economic effect of the wind farm on this city will never rival that of the steel giant. Mr. Mitskovski estimated that Steel Winds will ultimately employ a few dozen people, compared with the tens of thousands who punched the clock at Bethlehem. And though there are incentives for clean energy production, taxes generated by the wind farm will never match those paid by the steel mill, which at one time subsidized most of Lackawanna's government.
 The greatest effect of the eight windmills, however, may have more to do with attitude.
 ''A community that has had difficulty moving forward has accepted a technology that leapfrogs other forms of energy generation,'' Mr. Mitskovski said. ''Decades of steel-making created this environmental legacy. But that also created the opportunity to take this fallow, contaminated land and reuse it.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Windmills at Steel Winds dot the site of the old Bethlehem Steel mill in Lackawanna, N.Y. The wind farm is the largest to be built in a city. (Photo by Doug Benz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (91%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); LAKES (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SUPERFUND (89%); BROWNFIELD SITES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (86%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (78%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); MARINE VESSELS (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Electric Light and Power; Windmills; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN WIND ENERGY ASSOCIATION (54%) Bethlehem Steel Co

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (56%)

PERSON: David Staba

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Lackawanna (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



440 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Harnessing Methane, Cutting Waste, Recycling Tiles

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

DATELINE: LaGRANGE, Ga. 

 BODY:
The urge to conserve is obvious at the Interface Corporation, from slogans painted on the factory floor (''One Planet/Zero Harm''), to prize parking spots reserved for car-poolers, to packing boxes so relentlessly recycled that they sit, wrinkled and battered, festooned with the remains of previously applied masking tape (bought from Germany, because the extra adhesive in American masking tape causes more wear and tear). 
 Less obvious is the way the company now looks at all of its processes, from the time designers think of a new pattern until customers return their worn-out carpet for recycling. 
For example, when the company decided in 2000 to introduce a new line of carpet tiles, designers began by asking, ''How would nature make a floor?'' They thought of forests, where the ground is covered by pebbles, leaves, twigs, soil. ''What they discovered was everything is random, it's never the same, and it's always beautiful,'' said Stuart Jones, vice president of sustainable development for Interface Research and Development.
 This biomimicry produced Entropy, now one of Interface's hottest patterns. Its randomness allows it to be applied any-which-way and tremendously reduces the amount of finished tiles that must be rejected as ''off-quality.'' 
 The nylon cloth facing for Entropy, and other patterns, is made a few miles from here, in another Interface plant at West Point. An engineer there figured out that running the tufting machines with many relatively small creels of fiber, rather than fewer large creels, would greatly reduce waste -- ''about $180,000 worth of first-quality nylon'' annually, Mr. Jones said. 
 The rubbery backing for the tiles is applied at the plant here, where some of the company's greatest progress has been made. For example, company engineers worked with city engineers to find out how much methane, a greenhouse gas, was coming out of the LaGrange municipal dump. The answer, it turned out, was enough to power the Interface plant there for probably 40 years, Mr. Jones said. So the company agreed to adapt its boilers and buy the gas, if the city would pipe it in.
 The upshot was abundant power, cheaper than the natural gas it replaced; a multimillion-dollar revenue stream for LaGrange; longer life for its landfill, whose volume decreases as methane is drawn off; and a more pleasant environment for the dump's neighbors. 
 And because the LaGrange plant is now diverting methane away from the atmosphere, and because methane is a much more powerful heat-trapper than carbon dioxide, ''those credits set off all of our activities in North America,'' Mr. Jones said.
 Like others at Interface, he wishes the nylon in used carpet tiles could be recycled for new carpet, a feat not now fully within anyone's grasp. But in recent years the plant has been able to use worn tiles in making backing for new carpet. It markets the results as ''Cool Carpet,'' and customers love it. Business is ''fantastic,'' Mr. Jones said, and ''last year we diverted 16.8 million pounds from landfill.'' 
 The company is also experimenting with small sheets of plastic that could be used to attach tiles to one another and, it is hoped, eliminate the need for glue and the volatile organic compounds that come with it.
 Like others at Interface, Mr. Jones acknowledges that the easiest problems are solved quickest and that finding new ways to improve environmental performance is becoming harder. It helps that everyone in the company is eligible for an annual bonus, and the bonus depends on meeting both production and sustainability goals.
 ''Sometimes it's difficult to keep it energized,'' Mr. Jones said. ''But that's where I think the culture of the company embracing the concept has built momentum.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: POWER SOURCE -- An Interface plant in LaGrange, Ga., uses a city dump's methane gas. (Photo by Bruce Quist/Interface) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WASTE REDUCTION (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); FLOORING (89%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (89%); METHANE (87%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); ENGINEERING (75%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (66%); FABRICS (65%); GREENHOUSE GASES (61%) Environment; Carpets and Rugs; Waste Materials and Disposal; Recycling of Waste Materials; Factories and Industrial Plants; Methane

ORGANIZATION: Interface (Co)

PERSON: Cornelia Dean

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



441 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Cocaine Wars Turn Port Into Colombia's Deadliest City

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: BUENAVENTURA, Colombia, May 15 

 BODY:
Visitors to this city can be forgiven for thinking no place is safe here. Gunfire often echoes through the slums surrounding its port, the country's most important on the Pacific coast. As larger cities have calmed, Buenaventura has emerged as the deadliest urban center in Colombia's long internal war.
 Soldiers search almost every car at checkpoints on the winding road from Cali. Guerrillas recently fired mortar shells at the police headquarters. The stately Hotel Estacion, a neo-Classical gem built in 1928, where executives come to hammer out deals to import cars or export coffee, is guarded by dozens of soldiers in combat fatigues.
 ''It's as if we have a little Haiti within Colombia,'' said Lt. Nikolai Viviescas, 25, a police officer who was transferred from Bogota six months ago. ''It feels like another country.'' 
 Although Bogota, the capital, and other cities have become secure and prosperous enough that it is possible there to forget about this country's four-decade-old civil conflict for a while, Buenaventura is a different story.
 Killings in this city of about 300,000 climbed 30 percent last year, to 408, giving Buenaventura the nation's highest homicide rate at 144 per 100,000, more than seven times the rate in Bogota and four times that of Medellin. And this year, the police say, 222 people have been killed here. 
 A vast majority of the killings are the product of a narrow territorial conflict over control of the edge of the city's slums, acres of wooden shacks built on stilts over the sea. From these makeshift wharves, police and naval officials say, fast boats depart with cocaine for points north. Buenaventura's geography, crucial in connecting Colombia to the global flow of trade, also holds strategic cachet for drug traffickers.
 Despite receiving more than $5 billion in antinarcotics and counterinsurgency aid from the United States this decade, making the country the largest recipient of American aid in the hemisphere, Colombia remains the world's largest cocaine producer and the supplier of 90 percent of the cocaine consumed in the United States.
 Drug lords, rebels and resurgent paramilitary gangs all draw on Buenaventura's slum dwellers as their foot soldiers.
 The police say that many of the combatants on the rebels' side belong to the Manuel Cepeda Vargas Urban Front, a cell of the main rebel group FARC that is based in Cali and opposes the Autodefensas Campesinas del Pacifico, composed mostly of former paramilitary fighters.
 ''Nothing in this fight is about ideology,'' said Antero Viveros, the head of a community group in Lleras, a large slum controlled by the guerrillas. ''It is about drugs, with members of one ethnicity killing each other.''
 Despite its emergence as Colombia's most dangerous city, people displaced by fighting in the countryside still see Buenaventura as a refuge. About 42,000 refugees have arrived here since 1998, mostly Afro-Colombians from rural areas, according to the federal government. They swell the ranks of what may be Colombia's poorest slums. 
 ''If you're hungry, you'll do whatever imaginable to survive,'' said Fernando Nunez, 29, a Lleras resident who ekes out a living repairing old cellphones. 
 President Alvaro Uribe has forcefully criticized the violence here and sent new police and navy commanders to the city at the start of the year. About 2,000 soldiers and police officers, who also wear combat uniforms and carry semiautomatic weapons, patrol Buenaventura.
 Still, critics say authorities have long neglected Buenaventura's problems in part because Afro-Colombians receive scant federal attention. Nongovernmental groups say Afro-Colombians account for up to a quarter of the country's population of 44 million, by some measures giving Colombia the largest black population in the Spanish-speaking world. And more than 80 percent of Buenaventura's residents are black.
 This month, when the president chose Paula Marcela Moreno Zapata as culture minister, was the first time an Afro-Colombian ascended to a cabinet position in the country's history. Yet political analysts and black advocacy groups said the appointment was largely to appease Democrats in Washington who complain of racial exclusion in Colombia as they weigh a trade agreement.
 ''The war in Buenaventura is not going to be ended by symbolic actions from Bogota,'' said Rosaliano Riascos, a Buenaventura native who fled the city after a wave of paramilitary-led killings several years ago. Mr. Riascos, who heads an independent black advocacy group in Bogota, said it had been a year since he returned to Buenaventura to visit family. ''Buenaventura is a no-man's land,'' he said.
 The entrance to Lleras looks like that of any shantytown elsewhere in Colombia, with cinder-block shacks and a few paved streets. But deeper into the slum, the structures are made from discarded wood, with newcomers squeezing into lean-tos alongside older houses. Rusted barrels collect rain from zinc roofs, the only source of fresh water.
 Sewage bubbles down trash-strewn dirt roads before flowing into the sea. Stereos blare vallenato and reggaeton music. And precariously built homes are hoisted above the water on spindly pieces of wood.
 Many of the residents of these hovels hesitate to offer their names out of fear of retaliation over what they might say. One middle-aged man, offering a visitor a cup of rum from the steps of his house, said he had worked as a stevedore at the port years ago before losing that job. ''Now,'' he said, ''I do nothing.''
 Some economists hold up Buenaventura as an example of the risks of exposing certain areas of developing economies to market forces. Maria del Pilar Castillo, an economist at Valle University in Cali, said many residents lost economic security when the city's port was privatized more than a decade ago, cutting its work force and reducing benefits.
 With taxes on the imports flowing through Buenaventura's port largely going directly to the central government, the city reaps few benefits from international trade, even as Colombia's economy grows more than 6 percent a year. So the poor in Buenaventura, with an unemployment rate of about 28 percent, resort to the drug trade.
 ''There is no other viable industry here, so there are no other viable jobs,'' said Ana Maria Mercedes Cano, director of Buenaventura's Chamber of Commerce. ''So we live in a situation with violence all around us.''
 Civilians are increasingly caught in the cross-fire. Guerrillas were blamed for an attack earlier this year in which five people, including one police officer, were killed when a homemade mortar shell was fired at a police truck. Security officials here say laws that are lax on minors, who carry out many of the attacks, make it difficult to reduce the killings.
 ''We have a justice system designed for Switzerland, yet we have no Swiss here,'' said Col. Yamil Moreno, the chief of police in Buenaventura. In the same breath, Colonel Moreno, who was transferred here from the north, callously described Buenaventura's dying combatants.
 ''These vagabonds,'' he said, ''are good only for drinking, dancing and killing.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Police officers patrol the slums with semiautomatic weapons. ''Buenaventura is a no-man's land,'' says a former resident who fled the city.
 Waterfront shacks, like those in Lleras, a slum controlled by a rebel group, have become a central front in Colombia's four-decade-old civil conflict. (Photographs by Scott Dalton for The New York Times) Map of Colombia highlighting Buenaventura: Speedboats depart Buenaventura carrying cocaine to points north. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (86%); POLICE FORCES (78%); NAVIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); DISPLACED PERSONS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (68%); HOMICIDE (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (63%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (51%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Cocaine and Crack Cocaine

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (93%) COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) Colombia; Buenaventura (Colombia); Cali (Colombia); Colombia

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



442 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1851 words

HEADLINE: Executive on a Mission: Saving the Planet

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

DATELINE: VININGS, Ga. 

 BODY:
What Ray Anderson calls his ''conversion experience'' occurred in the summer of 1994, when he was asked to give the sales force at Interface, the carpet tile company he founded, some talking points about the company's approach to the environment. 
 ''That's simple,'' Mr. Anderson recalls thinking. ''We comply with the law.''
But as a sales tool, ''compliance'' lacked inspirational verve. So he started reading about environmental issues, and thinking about them, until pretty soon it hit him: ''I was running a company that was plundering the earth,'' he realized. ''I thought, 'Damn, some day people like me will be put in jail!' '' 
 ''It was a spear in the chest.'' 
 So instead of environmental regulation, he devoted his speech to his newfound vision of polluted air, overflowing landfills, depleted aquifers and used-up resources. Only one institution was powerful enough and pervasive enough to turn these problems around, he told his colleagues, and it was the institution that was causing them in the first place: ''Business. Industry. People like us. Us!''
 He challenged his colleagues to set a deadline for Interface to become a ''restorative enterprise,'' a sustainable operation that takes nothing out of the earth that cannot be recycled or quickly regenerated, and that does no harm to the biosphere.
 The deadline they ultimately set is 2020, and the idea has taken hold throughout the company. In a recent interview in his office here overlooking downtown Atlanta, Mr. Anderson said that through waste reduction, recycling, energy efficiency and other steps, Interface was ''about 45 percent from where we were to where we want to be.''
 Use of fossil fuels is down 45 percent (and net greenhouse gas production, by weight, is down 60 percent), he said, while sales are up 49 percent. Globally, the company's carpet-making uses one-third the water it used to. The company's worldwide contribution to landfills has been cut by 80 percent. 
 ''He bet his entire company,'' said Bob Fox, an architect who specializes in ''green'' buildings and who, like Mr. Anderson, is a member of the advisory board of the Harvard Center for Health and the Global Environment. ''It worked out probably better even than he hoped. He has set the mark for every other corporation in this country.''
 And in the process, Mr. Anderson has turned into perhaps the leading corporate evangelist for sustainability. He had a head start, he acknowledges, because he ran his company and controlled its voting stock. But he can make the case effectively, he said, because his Interface experience teaches that sustainability ''doesn't cost, it pays'' -- in customer loyalty, employee spirit and hard cash. He says Interface sustainability efforts have saved the company more than $336 million since 1995.
 In fact, sustainability has been such a successful strategy that Interface established a consulting arm last year, to market its methods to other companies. 
 As befits an evangelist, Mr. Anderson, a trim 72-year-old, has taken his message on the road, preaching the sermon of sustainability in at least 115 speeches around the world last year alone.
 Since last year, when he turned operating responsibilities over to Dan Hendrix, his successor as chief executive, selling sustainability has been ''pretty much my full-time job,'' Mr. Anderson said, and several people on the company payroll work more or less full time on it too, handling his schedule and fielding inquiries. ''I think he was a typical corporate executive: the bottom line was everything,'' said Eric Chivian, director of the Harvard Center. ''He really did not think about the impact of his work.''
 But today, Dr. Chivian said, Mr. Anderson is ''a model of creative thinking about sustainable business practices.'' 
 When Mr. Anderson began his crusade, there were those who thought it was quixotic, and some in the company worried that he was a bit too intense about it. Others thought carpet tiles -- squares of nylon pile glued ubiquitously underfoot in offices, classrooms, hospitals, airports and elsewhere -- were an unlikely focus for an effort to change the way business does business. 
 ''Well, he won us all over,'' said Jo Ann Bachman, one of Mr. Anderson's assistants.
 And for him, carpet tiles were an inspired choice.
 For one thing, he is a carpet tile enthusiast. After a short stint at Procter & Gamble, Mr. Anderson, a Georgia native and 1956 graduate of Georgia Tech, was working in the carpet division of Callaway Mills when he discovered carpet tiles on a trip to England that he also describes in his book ''Mid-Course Correction'' (Chelsea Green, 1998).
 It was the early 1970s, he said, and ''the office of the future was just then emerging,'' with more and more electronic equipment fed by more and more wires running under the floors, as walls gave way to cubicles. Carpet tile allowed businesses to move equipment at will, and the tiles could be replaced individually as they wore out. ''It just made so much sense,'' he said. 
 So he put together the necessary financing and started Interface in 1973. Today, the company says it has about $1.1 billion in annual sales and 38 percent of the global market for carpet tiles. 
 But when it comes to the environment, he eventually realized, carpet ''is a pretty abusive industry.''
 Carpet makers use lots of petroleum and petroleum derivatives, both as components of synthetic carpet and to power its production. Dyeing carpet is water- and energy-intensive. And when people are finished with the carpet, ''it goes into landfills where it lasts probably 20,000 years,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''Abusive.''
 So he challenged his employees to find ways to turn all of that around. And he forestalled objections from his own stockholders, he said, by making the elimination of waste the first target. ''We saved money from Day 1,'' he said. 
 He acknowledges that some of the advances the company has made so far are relatively obvious and easy, and that some of its claimed progress relies on steps, like carbon credits, that are far from ideal. For example, the company pays to plant trees that, in theory, take up enough carbon to compensate for the greenhouse gas generated by airplane flights on company business. 
 ''All you are really doing is inventorying the carbon for 200 years,'' Mr. Anderson said of the company's tree-planting efforts, which it subcontracts to a company in the carbon credit business. ''It's better than nothing, but it's temporary.''
 In the future, he said, progress will come ''in a lot of little steps and a few very big ones.''
 Developing recyclable nylon -- ''that's a big step,'' he said. (Whoever does it will get all his company's business, he has said.) Substituting ''carbohydrates'' -- using corn dextrose instead of petroleum -- would be even bigger. Renewable energy at a reasonable price would be another big step. Transportation remains ''a huge issue,'' in spite of the carbon credits.
 Even so, customers responded to the campaign, he said, noting that it was questions from customers that prompted the sales force to ask for his environmental views in the first place. ''In the aggregate, our products are not costing any more,'' he said, and customers do not seem to resist those that are more expensive. ''Our profit margins are up, not down,'' he said. 
 One key to the effort's success, he said, was its comprehensive, across-the-board approach to the entire company. ''If you begin with a company and say, 'We are going to green this company by bolting on these green programs,' you are going to end up with costs up, not down,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''We stepped back and said, Let's look at the whole system.' ''
 The audiences for his speeches are changing, too, he said. In the beginning, he often found himself preaching to the choir, he said, but in the last five years, his audiences have more often been business groups.
 ''I always make the business case for sustainability,'' he said. ''It's so compelling. Our costs are down, not up. Our products are the best they have ever been. Our people are motivated by a shared higher purpose -- esprit de corps to die for. And the goodwill in the marketplace -- it's just been astonishing.''
 Mr. Anderson, who has two grown daughters from a first marriage, commutes to his office in a Toyota Prius. He and his second wife, Pat, also have a home on 86 acres in the mountains near Highlands, N.C. It is off the grid, its landscaping designed to minimize environmental disruption. 
 And after an argument with the landlord, Interface's office space here is now illuminated with low-energy, long-life light bulbs.
 Mr. Anderson is also proud to say that as a member of an advisory council at Georgia Tech, he persuaded the institution to modify its mission statement to proclaim the goal of ''working for a sustainable society.''
 But there is a lot that even business cannot accomplish on its own, he said.
 For example, he said, the tax code is ''perverse,'' in that it puts heavy taxes on good things, like income and capital, and leaves a lot of bad things, like energy use, relatively unscathed. And economists typically underestimate the true cost of doing business because they exclude ''externalities,'' like environmental damage from pollution. 
 If it were up to him, he said, he would reduce income taxes and raise the gasoline tax (with subsidies for the poor). But he conceded that the Clinton administration, which he served as co-chairman of the Council on Sustainable Development, could not get an energy tax through Congress.
 ''The country wasn't ready for it,'' Mr. Anderson said, adding that when the sustainability council had a cocktail party for members of Congress, only a handful of members showed up, some of them possibly drawn more by drinks than doctrine. 
 But since then, he said, environmental groups have been spreading the message. He gives them credit for the success of Al Gore's global warming documentary, ''An Inconvenient Truth.'' 
 ''Their work created a supersaturated solution,'' he said in the language of chemistry. ''Gore drops his crystal in it, and the whole thing precipitates.''
 The movie was ''fabulous,'' he added. And would he support Mr. Gore for president? ''Oh, in a heartbeat!''
 Mr. Anderson's schedule is only getting more hectic. He is on track to easily surpass last year's speech-giving pace, he said, ''and I don't have to send an invitation, they just keep finding me.''
 But the effort is worth it, he said, not just for the opportunities he has to spread his message, but for its business-building effect. His favorite audiences are ''rich in potential customers,'' he said, and among them the sustainability effort ''has done more to lift the company's image than all the advertising we have ever done.''
 All of which makes him smile when he looks back on that sales meeting of 1994. 
 After the speech, he said, ''I heard the whispers, 'Has he gone round the bend?' '' Mr. Anderson recalls proudly how he confessed at once that he had. ''That's my job,'' he said. ''To see what's around the bend.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: ECO-PROMOTER -- Ray Anderson with some of the carpet tiles his company makes. (Photo by Jessica McGowan for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 GONE GREEN -- Ray Anderson at his plant in West Point, Ga. At a plant in LaGrange, below, carpet scraps are collected for reuse. (Photographs by Jessica McGowan for The New York Times)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LANDFILLS (89%); FLOORING (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); RELIGION (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); WASTE REDUCTION (72%); DEREGULATION (71%); AIR POLLUTION (68%); INTERVIEWS (64%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (59%) Carpets and Rugs; Environment; Consumer Behavior; Finances; Sales; Law and Legislation ; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Carpets and Rugs

ORGANIZATION: Interface (Co)

PERSON: Cornelia Dean; Ray Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (68%) GEORGIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



443 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: Baghdad District Is a Model, but Only for Shiites

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG and DAMIEN CAVE; Wisam A. Habeeb and Khalid al-Ansary contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, May 18 

 BODY:
Ice cream shops in the Shiite stronghold of Kadhimiya are flush with sweet-toothed customers. Hospitals have new supplies. Rents have tripled as displaced Shiites flock to the historic district's spacious homes, while pilgrims stream to the golden-domed shrine at its heart. 
 Here on the volatile Sunni-dominated west bank of the Tigris River, religious Shiite leaders and their militias have unquestionably consolidated control, transforming Kadhimiya into what could be a model for much of Baghdad if the Shiites have their way.
''This experience in Kadhimiya, you might find it in the future in every neighborhood throughout Iraq,'' said Sheik Muhammad Bakr Khamis al-Suhail, the white-robed leader of the neighborhood council.
 But the future that Kadhimiya points to may not be democratic, inclusive or just, at least by Western standards. Residents and American commanders describe the area as a nerve center for benign and malignant elements of Shiite power, the raw embodiment of the Shiite revival that has swept Iraq in the last four years. 
 It is a place, they say, where militia leaders, Iraqi politicians, criminals and clerics intersect and compete; a place where the Iraqi soldier protecting residents on Monday may be collecting bribes for a militia on Tuesday, praying at the mosque on Friday and firing at American troops over the weekend.
 For the average Iraqi, the tradeoff for relative safety is living with a certain level of extortion, political corruption and religious militancy. 
 Loyalties in Kadhimiya can change block by block as rival militias vie for turf. Clerics post guards with Kalashnikov rifles in winding alleyways, and some factions scorn mosques where others worship. There is even a gas station controlled by a different armed group every few days.
 ''The militia influence undermines the rule of law,'' said Lt. Col. Steven M. Miska, deputy commander of the Second Brigade, First Infantry Division, charged with controlling northwest Baghdad. He added that the militia fighters who had joined the Iraqi security forces ''are basically militia eyes and ears that respond to politicians, as opposed to a legitimate chain of command.''
 Sheik Suhail said that the militia members in largely middle-class Kadhimiya were more educated and orderly than those in Sadr City and elsewhere, but that their presence was ''like a time bomb that's ticking, and one day it'll explode.''
 The economic boom, religious fervor and force of arms seem to go hand in hand here.
 The Mahdi Army, the militia loyal to the rebellious Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, helps keep security in central Kadhimiya, watching for Sunni Arab insurgents intent on bombing the main shrine, the market or an ayatollah's home. A Sadr loyalist was recently nominated to lead the Iraqi Army battalion in the neighborhood, and 300 of his men are already in uniform on the streets. Some Mahdi members also do social work, dispensing food and medical aid.
 ''We're providing a public service,'' said Karim Naji, a Sadr spokesman whose family has lived in Kadhimiya for 130 years. ''We act as the connection between the government and the families.''
 The militias' intimidating form of street justice, complete with underground Islamic courts, has helped prevent the catastrophic bomb attacks all too common in other Shiite neighborhoods. The militias have created a Shiite-friendly ring around Kadhimiya -- many Sunni Arab families on its southern fringes were driven out last year, and the militias have taken the fight to outlying neighborhoods.
 American commanders say they suspect that militia leaders are using Kadhimiya as a base to plan operations to clear out mixed and predominantly Sunni Arab neighborhoods throughout western Baghdad. 
 ''Any Sunni may face death in Kadhimiya unless he's under the protection of a resident here,'' Sheik Suhail said.
 But for fearful Shiites, Kadhimiya is a sanctuary. At least 2,000 families have fled here. Hundreds live in several warehouses by the hospital, the sheik said.
 His sister Asmaa moved here with her husband and three college-age children after three of her husband's brothers were shot dead in their old neighborhood, Abu Ghraib.
 ''I can say it's 98 percent different here,'' she said. ''In Abu Ghraib, we couldn't sleep, night or day.''
 Kadhimiya is one of Baghdad's most venerable areas, designated as a cemetery in the eighth century during the height of the Abbasid caliphate. It became a Shiite pilgrimage center after the seventh Shiite imam, Musa al-Kadhim, and his grandson, Muhammad al-Taqi, the ninth imam, were buried here. The shrine is said to have been built atop their graves.
 Powerful Shiite leaders make the neighborhood their home. They include Ayatollah Hussein al-Sadr, an elderly moderate cleric related to Moktada al-Sadr; Ahmad Chalabi, the favorite of American neoconservatives; and Bahaa al-Aaraji, the leader of the parliamentary bloc loyal to the young Mr. Sadr. Some of Kadhimiya's armed groups answer to these men. 
 The militia presence even extends deep into Camp Justice, the main Iraqi and American base in Kadhimiya. It was here, in an execution chamber on the Iraqi compound, where Saddam Hussein was hanged in December to chants of ''Moktada, Moktada, Moktada.''
 The area is not entirely free of sectarian violence. Militants in the Sunni neighborhood of Adhamiya, just across the Tigris, launch mortar rounds or fire shots into Kadhimiya. 
 The occasional violence has not dampened the influx of prominent Shiite figures and displaced families. Rents have tripled, Sheik Suhail said. A fifth of the shops are newly opened or renovated. The famous gold market is bustling, as are cafes, furniture stores and religious souvenir shops. 
 But with the benefits of Shiite rule also come the dysfunctions. 
 Territory has been carved up by the armed factions, an affliction common to Shiite areas throughout Iraq. Mahdi Army cells dominate most of the district, but a southern area is controlled by the militia's archrival, the powerful Shiite political party with strong ties to Iran formerly known as the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq. It recently renamed itself the Supreme Islamic Iraqi Council. 
 The council's main house of worship, the Baratha Mosque, is guarded by the party's militia. Scores of worshipers were killed there last year in a series of suicide bombings by Sunni Arab insurgents. Mr. Sadr's loyalists despise the mosque as much as the Sunnis do. ''It's the headquarters of Iranian intelligence,'' said Mr. Naji, Mr. Sadr's spokesman.
 The mosque's imam, Sheik Jalaladeen al-Sagheer, a powerful legislator, blamed the Sadrists for tensions in Kadhimiya, but he criticized the Americans even more. ''Most of their actions are provocative,'' he said. ''There's no need for them to be in the area.''
 The Sadr militia is itself fractured. Some Iraqis and American commanders report that leaders from rival Mahdi Army cells have moved into Kadhimiya and are vying for power. Four bodies recently surfaced in a single day, and residents told American troops that the victims were Shiite militiamen who had been battling other Shiites. 
 Civilians live in relative peace, at a cost. 
 On a recent afternoon, Colonel Miska, the American deputy commander, visited a gas station in Kadhimiya that seemed to highlight the neighborhood's contradictions. 
 Many of the drivers waiting in line had come from all over Baghdad because the neighborhood was more likely to have fuel. But who could buy it was often determined by which armed men stood near the pumps. 
 Some days, the station's private guards controlled access, accepting bribes for those looking to cut ahead in line. Other days, the Iraqi Army managed the station -- letting militia leaders slide in without waiting. And one day earlier this month, Mahdi Army members stood by the pumps. 
 Whenever a driver tried to cheat to get ahead in the line, the gunmen shattered the car's headlights, said Amar Juad al-Kadhimi, 28. 
 ''After that,'' Mr. Kadhimi said, ''everything went smoothly.''
 Some Mahdi members extort protection money from business owners and doctors, American officers said. Militias take a cut of construction contracts and real estate transactions, typically 25 percent, Sheik Suhail said.
 ''The Mahdi Army acts as a tax office in all Shiite neighborhoods in Baghdad,'' he said.
 The militias sometimes try to enforce a strict interpretation of law based on the Koran, raiding gambling dens or attacking alcohol vendors, the sheik said. Last month, American soldiers said they found two drunken men bound and beaten in a house with blood-splattered walls. It appeared to have been a makeshift Islamic court or torture center, the Americans said.
 Kadhimiya's concentration of militia power has fueled distrust of the Iraqi forces in the area, according to residents, American commanders and Iraqi security officers. 
 The Americans seem especially frustrated with what they describe as the Iraqi government's approval of militia control. The Sadr loyalist nominated to be a battalion commander here worked for the guard detail of Mr. Aaraji, the senior Sadr legislator who lives in the area, American officers said. The loyalist had been in the army only a few weeks, the Americans said.
 ''He's been over at the militia headquarters,'' said a company commander, Capt. Douglas Rogers.
 Now, ''There are Americans doing patrols with Iraqis who a week before were supportive of, or actually engaged in, fighting against them,'' he said in another interview. 
 Militia infiltration in the Iraqi Army crystallized during a firefight on April 29 between Captain Rogers's soldiers and the Mahdi Army. 
 A platoon of Americans, acting on a tip that a torture cell was operating from the main Sadr mosque, surrounded it, only to come under withering gunfire from nearby buildings.
 When the firefight ended, at least eight gunmen lay dead, including an Iraqi soldier, American soldiers said. Iraqi informants and overhead surveillance pictures showed that other Iraqi soldiers had been passing weapons to the Sadr fighters, the Americans said.
 The next day, the Shiite-led Iraqi Parliament voted to bar American troops from approaching within 1,000 meters of the Kadhimiya Shrine, a few blocks from the Sadr mosque. But Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki did not sign the resolution, so Colonel Miska said his soldiers would continue their operations. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: American troops patrolling last month in Kadhimiya. Despite relative peace, there have been some mortar attacks on the neighborhood.
 A couple ate ice cream recently in the Kadhimiya district of Baghdad, where rents have climbed and many displaced Shiites have come to live. (Photographs by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)(pg. A10) Map of Iraq highlighting Kadhimiya: Kadhimiya's residents have had the protection of Shiite militias. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); BRIBERY (90%); RELIGION (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); ARMIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); POLITICS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); ICE CREAM (79%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); BOMBINGS (75%); ETHICS (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Ethics; Extortion and Blackmail; Bribery

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%) Edward Wong; Damien Cave; Muhammad Bakr Khamis al- (Sheik) Suhail

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (94%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Kadhimiya (Baghdad); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



444 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Side Deals in a Gray Area; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Buyer-Seller Agreements Not to Sue Raise Issues About Inside Information

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Global deal making is on a tear, accompanied by a surge of insider trading cases. 
 While regulators have focused on the buying of options or stocks on leaks about deals before they become public, there is another, more subtle way that big investors can trade while possessing information that the market does not have.
And it is -- for now at least -- all perfectly legal. 
 This little-known leeway comes in the form of ''big-boy letters'' -- letters between buyers and sellers that say, in essence, ''We are all big boys here, so let's not sue each other.'' 
 Big-boy letters are typically used when an investor has confidential information about a stock or bond and wants to sell those securities. By signing the letter, the buyer effectively recognizes that the seller has better information but promises not to sue the seller, much like a homebuyer who agrees to buy a house in ''as is'' condition.
 But what happens when that security is then sold in the market and plummets in value? Put another way, what if that house collapses soon after it is sold to another buyer? 
 The use of big-boy letters is about to face its first significant legal challenge. In a lawsuit set to go to trial next month, a Texas hedge fund contends that it was on the losing end of such a letter in 2001, when Salomon Smith Barney, now Smith Barney, sold more than $20 million worth of World Access bonds to the Jefferies Group, the investment bank, using a big-boy letter. 
 Jefferies, in turn, flipped those bonds to the hedge fund, R2 of Fort Worth, through the Fimat Group, a service that matches trades. When World Access, a telecommunications company, announced that it was out of cash two days later, the bonds plummeted 30 percent, leaving the hedge fund holding the bag. 
 In a world of rapid trading, complex and arcane derivatives and secretive traders, the contours of what makes a level playing field for investors are sometimes hard to see. 
 Big-boy letters are a case in point. They are widely used and represent a private contract between presumably sophisticated investors. 
 Lawyers agree that big-boy letters do not technically shield either party from insider trading laws, but rather protect the two parties from suing each other. Still, the letters are widely used and have not -- until now -- been legally challenged. (The Securities and Exchange Commission has not weighed in on the letters.)
 And lawyers do not agree on what happens when the securities at issue in big-boy letters are then put into the market with trades that might otherwise be deemed illegal. 
 Typically, insiders are barred from trading on significant information they have agreed to receive in confidence that gives them an advantage over other investors. 
 ''With big-boy letters, we have a situation where the public at large can be exposed to tainted claims without knowing about it,'' said Edward S. Weisfelner, the chairman of the bankruptcy and corporate restructuring practice group at the law firm of Brown Rudnick.
 Big-boy letters are used in other situations. For example, companies might use them to sell stock when they are close to reporting earnings and clearly have an information advantage. Big-boy letters ''avoid having to deal with the obvious, that someone knows more,'' said Dennis J. Block, a senior partner at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft.
 In another case involving big-boy letters, Barclays, the British bank, disclosed recently that the Securities and Exchange Commission was considering a civil enforcement action against it. According to government filings and a related lawsuit brought by Michael Econn, a former credit analyst at the bank, Barclays' employees traded debt while simultaneously sitting on bankruptcy committees, giving them nonpublic information that would inform those traders about the value of the debt.
 According to Mr. Econn's lawsuit, Barclays supervisors told the employees the trades were acceptable because the bank was using big-boy letters, even though only a few big-boy letters were ever drafted.
 Barclays says it does not comment on regulatory matters. Mr. Econn's lawyer declined to comment. 
 In the lawsuit brought by the R2 hedge fund, which is scheduled go before a federal jury in Manhattan, the issue is whether Smith Barney and Jefferies worked together to unload toxic securities into the market and whether Jefferies was obligated to disclose the existence of the big-boy letters to the fund.
 E-mail messages that have emerged in documents filed in a related suit in Texas indicate that traders were frantic to sell the World Access bonds before the company's dire financial condition became known. The same day that Smith Barney received detailed confidential information about World Access, it asked Jefferies to find a buyer for its bonds, according to R2's lawsuit. Buyers were scarce. 
 The following afternoon, as the market was nearing its close, a Jefferies trader sent an e-mail message to Fimat Group, which was helping Jefferies' find a buyer: ''I need an answer this thing is a mess.'' 
 By the end of the day, the bonds were sold to R2 with Jefferies selling to Fimat minutes before buying from Smith Barney to cover the trade. Jefferies and Smith Barney completed their big-boy letter the next day. 
 ''We believe it is clearly illegal for someone with material nonpublic information to dump securities on unsuspecting buyers in the marketplace by funneling the trade through a middleman who signs a big-boy letter,'' said Andrew Cole, a spokesman for R2. ''If we are proven wrong, then a giant loophole exists that essentially makes the insider trading laws meaningless." 
 A spokesman for Citigroup, which owns Smith Barney, said, ''We believe the case is without merit and will fight it vigorously.'' A Jefferies spokesman declined to comment.
 Documents filed in the related Texas case suggest that Smith Barney may argue that it did not agree to protect the confidentiality of the information it received, making it free to trade. Jefferies may contend that it was unaware that Smith Barney had confidential information. 
 The genesis of the case was the popping of the bubble in telecommunications spending. In 2000, World Access, a Nasdaq-listed company, provided bundled telecom services, including voice, data and Internet to small and medium-size businesses in Europe. 
 At the end of that year, World Access was required by its lenders to buy back more than $160 million worth of bonds under terms of a previous covenant. In January 2001 it began the buyback. By February 2001, the stock of World Access hovered around $3 and its bonds, which were highly illiquid, were trading at about 64 cents on the dollar. It was a troubled company in a flailing industry. 
 On Feb. 8, World Access executives called investors at J.& W. Seligman & Company, another major bondholder, and said they needed approval to restructure the tender offer to buy back only $80 million worth of bonds. The company was running out of money and if the bondholders did not agree to the changes, it faced possible bankruptcy. 
 The next day, a Seligman executive called other bondholders. He made clear that the information was confidential, according to R2's lawsuit, and over the next few days, sent the group detailed financial information, including a PowerPoint presentation with projections, all marked confidential. Three days later, the bondholders met with the company at Seligman's office on Park Avenue in Manhattan to discuss the materials and the company's prospects. 
 Soon after that meeting, a trader from Smith Barney called Jefferies, looking for bids on World Access bonds. The Jefferies trader, by e-mail, informed Smith Barney that there had been a buyer, but that the buyer had apparently got wind of the bondholder deal -- information that had not been publicly disclosed -- and had backed away. 
 By Feb. 13, the Smith Barney trader appeared agitated, anxious to unwind his position, according to the e-mail messages. As Jefferies tried to pry out more information about the deal, the trader said he was not authorized to say anything because the bank was restricted, meaning that it had nonpublic information. 
 As the afternoon wore on, the e-mail became more testy. At 3:30 p.m., seeking a buyer, the Jefferies trader e-mailed Fimat: ''I need to execute 20mm -- forget the rest -- this is a prob if nothing gets done.'' At 4:05, Jefferies sold $20 million of bonds to Fimat for $498.75 per $1,000 bond. Four minutes later, it covered the sale by buying $20 million of bonds at $487.50 for every $1,000. By the end of the day, R2 bought the bonds for $501.875. When the World Access news release came out, disclosing its true financial condition, the bonds dropped to $360 per $1,000. 
 In general, lawyers disagree as to whether the buyer of the securities, knowing that the securities were obtained via a big-boy letter, has an obligation to inform the next buyer. 
 Howard Seife, head of the bankruptcy practice at Chadbourne & Parke, said: ''If I am the buyer and I want to resell, it would be prudent for the new seller to enter into a big-boy letter. You are protecting yourself to the new buyer in the chain.''
 Others disagree. ''The existence of a big-boy letter is not a material fact that needs to be disclosed in connection with a sale,'' said Mr. Block from Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft. 
 Interviews with more than a dozen law firms elicit a wide range of opinions on big-boy letters. ''It's a fairly gray area,'' Mr. Seife acknowledged. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 25, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Tuesday about a lawsuit over a sale of corporate bonds referred incorrectly to the current status of the Citigroup business that sold the bonds. That business is now owned by Legg Mason; it is not a part of the Smith Barney unit of Citigroup. (Citigroup and its affiliates are defendants in the lawsuit; Legg Mason is not.)

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (90%); BONDS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); LAWYERS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); ETHICS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Insider Trading ; Suits and Litigation; Ethics; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: NEWEDGE GROUP (81%); JEFFERIES GROUP INC (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: R2 (Hedge Fund); Salomon Snith Barney; World Access; Jefferies Group; Fimat Group

TICKER: JEF (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (81%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (81%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (54%) TEXAS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



445 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Film Offers New Talking Points in Health Care Debate

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM and LIZA KLAUSSMANN

 BODY:
Few of them may become Michael Moore fans. But some insurance industry officials and health policy experts acknowledged yesterday that the film documentary ''Sicko,'' Mr. Moore's indictment of health care in this country, taps into widespread public concern that the system does not work for millions of Americans.
 The movie, which had its first showing at the Cannes Film Festival on Saturday and received many favorable reviews, presents a series of heart-rending anecdotes meant to illustrate systemic failures and foul-ups under the nation's insurance industry -- even if many of the major pieces of evidence are ones that have been widely reported elsewhere and in some cases date back 20 years.
The film, which will be released in this country on June 29 after a well-calculated publicity campaign by Mr. Moore, is arriving as health care has become the leading domestic policy concern in many national polls, second only to the Iraq war. Although they have not had a chance to see the film yet, many American health care and insurance industry experts have been tracking it intently, based on media reports. 
 Without commenting on the movie's central criticisms of the insurance system, the head of America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group in Washington, suggested that discussion of the movie could advance the industry's interest in obtaining more government money for people who do not have insurance.
 ''If the movie results in members of Congress and governors putting this issue squarely on the table as the No. 1 priority, we will be part of that discussion and will welcome it,'' said Karen Ignagni, president of the health plans group.
 Uwe E. Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton, said that based on reviews, the movie is ''exaggerated, biting, unfair,'' but he added that a number of recent books and reports by academic experts had been at least as critical.
 He cited ''Redefining Health Care,'' a book by Michael E. Porter, a Harvard Business School professor, and Elizabeth Teisberg, a Stanford University economist, along with ''Who Killed Health Care?'' by Regina Herzlinger, also at the Harvard Business School.
 ''My point is we are on the verge of a populist reaction to the health system,'' Professor Reinhardt said. ''The American people are on the point of being fed up.'' 
 Perhaps not coincidentally on Sunday, ''60 Minutes,'' the CBS television magazine show, took up a scandal that is part of Mr. Moore's film -- and has been well chronicled in The Los Angeles Times -- about the abandonment by Los Angeles hospitals of homeless patients after they have received medical treatment. 
 Last week, Kaiser Permanente, the nation's largest nonprofit health insurer, settled criminal and civil lawsuits, agreeing to establish new rules for discharging such patients, and to pay $55,000 in fines and to cover the city attorney's investigative costs. Kaiser will also contribute $500,000 to help the homeless with follow-up care and other services.
 Another scene in ''Sicko'' shows a clip of Congressional testimony given in 1996 by Dr. Linda Peeno, a former medical reviewer for the health insurer Humana, who said that her job was to save the company money. ''I denied a man a necessary operation,'' she testified, referring to a ruling she had made in 1987. Ms. Peeno's testimony has been widely recounted over the years.
 A Humana spokesman, Thomas Noland, said that the cased cited by Dr. Peeno involved whether a man in a hospital in Las Vegas had coverage that would pay for a heart transplant. Dr. Peeno had said ''correctly that it did not cover heart transplants,'' Mr. Noland said. 
 Stuart Altman, a health policy expert at Brandeis University, acknowledged that accounts of insurance companies denying care ''make people furious.'' But he questioned whether ''Sicko,'' even if it became a box-office hit, would have any true impact on health care policy.
 ''Most Americans never see these problems,'' said Professor Altman, who is dean of the Heller Graduate School for Social Policy and Management at Brandeis. ''Most are reasonably healthy to begin with,'' he said. ''And even those that have some problems have this strong fear that they would be the loser'' in a different system, run by the government, he said. 
 ''They hate the system -- it's too expensive -- but we have been hearing about these things for 35 years,'' Professor Altman said. ''Unless we have a meltdown which affects the middle class -- that is nowhere near happening -- we will not be willing to fundamentally restructure the system.''
 Meanwhile, in Cannes yesterday Mr. Moore discussed the next steps for ''Sicko'' in a meeting of nearly a dozen people. Participants included Harvey Weinstein, the movie executive whose company financed the film and will market and help distribute it, and Chris Lehane, a former political adviser in the Clinton White House who is serving as the movie's spokesman.
 To ride the Cannes momentum ahead of the film's United States release, the team plans to start running newspaper advertisements superimposing health insurer logos on tombstones and to use the michaelmoore.com Web to solicit whistle-blowers from the ranks of insurance company employees. 
 In a half-joking conversation, it emerged that Mr. Weinstein, a supporter of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, had tried to persuade Mr. Moore to revise the film's depiction of Mrs. Clinton. 
 The early part of the film unrolls as a virtual love letter to Mrs. Clinton, chronicling her efforts as first lady to stage an overhaul of the health care system. But the tone changes as the film proceeds, lumping her among the members of Congress who, ''Sicko'' contends, are financially beholden to insurers. 
 Mr. Weinstein ''just wanted me to leave in the bit where she was young and sexy,'' said Mr. Moore, referring to the scenes of Mrs. Clinton as first lady, making clear that he had declined to make the cuts. 
 ''I just felt the film was over, you know, by about 30 seconds,'' Mr. Weinstein said, laughing. ''It's not because I support her.''
 The conversation turned to whether Mr. Moore planned to back any of the current proposals for health care reform, or whether he would come up with his own plan. Some suggested that he stick to his position that the insurance companies be done away with, replaced by national universal health care system. 
 ''Let's be honest, no one's going to support dismantling the private health care system,'' Mr. Moore replied. ''I don't think the insurance companies are just going to give up the profit motivation.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 24, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about the health care industry's perception of Michael Moore's new movie, ''Sicko,'' misstated the educational affiliation of Elizabeth Teisberg, the co-author of a recent book, ''Redefining Health Care.'' She is an associate professor at the Darden School of Business at the University of Virginia, not an economist at Stanford University.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a scene comparing health care systems, Mr. Moore shows this couple leaving a London hospital with their newborn daughter. (Photo by Weinstein Company)
 Michael Moore's documentary ''Sicko'' had its first showing at the Cannes Film Festival on Saturday and received many favorable reviews. It will be released in the United States on June 29. (Photo by Eric Gaillard/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); INSURANCE (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (85%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); FESTIVALS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); BOOK REVIEWS (64%); EVIDENCE (55%) Medicine and Health; Motion Pictures ; Documentary Films and Programs; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Cannes International Film Festival; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (84%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (80%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA'S HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%)

PERSON: Michael Moore; Milt Freudenheim; liza klaussmann

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



446 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Ad Limits Seen as Way to Curb Youth Smoking and Drinking

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS BAKALAR

 BODY:
Price-cutting and other marketing strategies widely used by the tobacco and alcoholic beverage industries are highly effective in encouraging children and teenagers to smoke and drink, according to two new studies.
 In one study, researchers showed that point-of-sale advertising and other marketing significantly increase the likelihood that junior and senior high school students will try smoking or become habitual smokers. Another has found that exposure to alcohol advertising among sixth graders strongly predicts alcohol use a year later.
That advertising liquor and tobacco increases their sales may not be a revelation. But both studies suggested that fairly simple public policy changes might significantly reduce underage smoking and drinking. 
 In the first study, published in the May issue of The Archives of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine, researchers used a nationwide survey of more than 26,000 students in 8th, 10th and 12th grades from 1999 to 2003. The study period immediately followed the landmark 1998 settlement in which the tobacco companies agreed to pay the states billions of dollars to resolve smoking-related health claims and to restrict advertising and promotion directed at young people. 
 The scientists found that point-of-sale advertising is associated with getting children to try smoking, but has little effect in encouraging habitual tobacco use. However, cigarette promotions, especially those that involve price reductions, may tempt teenagers who have already experimented with tobacco to become regular smokers.
 Bill Phelps, a spokesman for Philip Morris USA, said the company carefully regulated in-store promotions to make sure they were aimed at adults. ''We have a contract with retailers that governs how our products are displayed at retail and assures that they are merchandised in a responsible way,'' Mr. Phelps said. ''Retailers who participate have to sell their cigarettes in a non-self-service manner. They must also train their store personnel to card customers. Retailers must also display youth smoking prevention materials that we provide.''
 The study's authors estimated that if stores had no advertising, there would be a decrease of 11 percent in children who try smoking. If promotions were eliminated, there would be a decrease of 13 percent in the number who become habitual smokers.
 The researchers concluded that the industry's emphasis on marketing was offsetting the benefits of the restrictions imposed by the 1998 agreement. They also said their findings provided evidence that price increases and restrictions on price-based promotions would aid public health.
 ''Increases in cigarette taxes are effective,'' said Frank J. Chaloupka, an economics professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago and one of the study's authors. ''And we have other research that shows that strong smoke-free policies are helpful in changing social norms and keeping kids from smoking.'' 
 A second study, published online April 13 in The Journal of Adolescent Health, suggested alcohol advertising was also effective among teenagers. Scientists surveyed 1,786 sixth graders in South Dakota, measuring their exposure to alcohol marketing. 
 After controlling for sex, race, parental education, school grades and more than a dozen other variables, the researchers found that exposure to advertising in sixth grade strongly predicted drinking in seventh grade. The most consistent predictor of drinking was ownership of a hat, poster, or T-shirt that advertised alcohol, they said, and the one-fifth of sixth graders who owned such items were almost twice as likely to take up drinking as those who did not. 
 Jeff Becker, president of the Beer Institute, an industry lobby, criticized the study as ''the latest in a long line of studies that try to make advertising the scapegoat for underage adults and adolescents who drink illegally.'' He added, ''But it adds nothing new to the debate about the most effective way to prevent illegal underage drinking, which is clearly restricting youth access to alcohol, not censoring advertising.'' 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Pohl) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (95%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING STRATEGY (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); BEVERAGE PRICES (90%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); POINT OF PURCHASE ADVERTISING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RETAILERS (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); SMOKING BANS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); SALES TAX (75%); WRITERS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TOBACCO MFG (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (69%) Smoking and Tobacco; Alcoholic Beverages; Research; Advertising and Marketing; Sales Tax; Children and Youth; Research; Smoking and Tobacco; Apparel; Posters

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS USA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: University of Illinois (Chicago); Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine; Journal of Adolescent Health

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (54%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (54%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (54%)

PERSON: Nicholas Bakalar; Frank J (Dr) Chaloupka

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



447 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Meet Your Clothes at the Hotel

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
The luggage shipping business has found a convert in Murray Grenville, who runs an investment valuation company in New York and has not flown with bags on business trips in almost a year, even when he goes to the West Coast.
 Mr. Grenville, the chief executive of the Sterling Valuation Group, estimates that shipping his bags ahead saves him 60 to 90 minutes on each flight. Not only that, he said, there is little risk of lost or misdirected luggage. ''I get off the plane and right into a car,'' he went on. ''I can go straight to a meeting without my bags; I don't have to go to my hotel first. And it's an easier travel experience because I don't have 60 pounds of baggage to pull along.''
 A small but growing number of executives are using such services to ship bags ahead when they travel on business. These services -- some originally created to ship vacationers' sports equipment like skis or golf clubs -- are proliferating. And variations are springing up, like companies that operate ''virtual closets'' for travelers. These companies store and maintain customers' clothing and other possessions and ship them to their destination, then return it all to storage once the trip is over. 
 Although the concept of luggage forwarding dates back at least a decade -- one of the first companies, Luggage Express, started in 1996 -- it will no doubt continue to gain popularity as air travel becomes more difficult.
 With last summer's adoption of new restrictions on liquids that can be carried onto flights, some travelers who previously did not check bags are now doing so. This appears to be placing more pressure on the airlines. According to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, American airlines reported 8.02 incidents of mishandled luggage per 1,000 passengers in the first quarter of this year, up from 6.24 incidents in the period last year. For all of 2006, the airlines reported 6.73 incidents, which was itself up from 6.64 reports in 2005. The bureau defines a mishandled bag as one that has been lost, broken into, damaged or delayed. 
 What may also help the luggage shipping services are the fees some carriers are charging to check bags. British Airways, for instance, announced in February that it would simplify its previous fee structure and allow economy-class passengers starting their trips in the United States to check free two bags, each weighing a maximum of 23 kilograms (about 50 pounds). Business- and first-class passengers who begin their trips in the United States can check up to three bags, each weighing up to 23 kilograms. But the airline is charging $:120 (about $236) for each additional checked bag, or for any overweight checked bag. 
 The carrier's policy for passengers who begin their trips in Britain and are not taking trans-Atlantic flights is even more stringent. (Fees are discounted 30 percent if prepaid online.)
 John Lampl, a spokesman for British Airways, said the new charges would be fully phased in by early October. He said the fees were intended in part to safeguard the ''health and safety'' of British Airways baggage handlers.
 Spirit Airlines, a low-fare carrier based in Miramar, Fla., will start charging travelers to check bags next month -- $5 a bag if the payment is made online and $10 a bag if it is made at the airport for a maximum of two bags. The cost of checking additional bags will be $100 each. 
 The baggage shipping companies -- which include Luggage Express, a subsidiary of Universal Express, based in Boca Raton, Fla.; Luggage Concierge in Hawthorne, N.Y.; Sports Express in Houston; First Luggage, based near Heathrow Airport in London; and Luggage Forward, based in Boston -- generally operate the same way. Customers book their services either by phone or online; the companies then ship the bags via Federal Express, United Parcel Service or other freight forwarders, then track them and confirm their arrival at the traveler's destination. Rates vary according to the amount of time required for delivery and the destination. 
 Last week, Luggage Express quoted a $305 rate for round-trip overnight delivery of a 50-pound suitcase from New York to Los Angeles, while Luggage Forward's fee was $622. First Luggage quoted a rate of $258.65 one way, or $517.30 round trip, for a 50-pound bag going from New York to London; it said the trip would take 48 hours each way. Luggage Forward said its quickest service from New York to London would take two to four business days, while service in the other direction would take three to five business days, with a round-trip delivery fee of $738.
 All the shipping companies say demand from business travelers and others has grown significantly in recent months, particularly since the Transportation Security Administration imposed the new liquid carry-on rules. 
 Richard A. Altomare, chairman and chief executive of Universal Express, said that business at its subsidiary, Luggage Express, had grown about 20 percent a month since August. Gideon Kasfiner, chief executive of First Luggage, said the number of pieces of luggage shipped by American customers had tripled in the last year, while Aaron Kirley, a co-founder of Luggage Forward, said its gross revenue in the first quarter of this year was half of its gross revenue for all of 2006. 
 Discounted rates are probably stimulating some of the business. First Luggage gives a 5 percent discount to British Airways passengers, while Luggage Forward introduced a deeply discounted rate last summer that guarantees delivery in the continental United States in five days. This discounted rate is usually less than half the rate for guaranteed overnight luggage delivery. 
 Although one ''virtual closet'' company, Garde Robe of New York, was started in 2001, others have begun offering such services only recently. These include FlyLite, which is based in Reston, Va., and has storage sites in Boston, New York and Reston, and CarryOn, with a storage site in Gainesville, Ga. All three companies photograph customers' clothing and other possessions, and display the photos in the customer's password-protected online ''closet.'' 
 None of these services are especially cheap. Garde Robe, for example, charges a minimum of $350 a month to store 50 garments, including 10 pairs of shoes and one box of accessories or toiletries, plus additional fees to ship and clean these items. Gary Schechner, a Los Angeles-based marketing and advertising consultant who once worked with Katherine Johnson, the founder of CarryOn, said he now flew with only his workout clothing. Everything else is shipped ahead by CarryOn. 
 William Behn, a single father who lives with his three children in Atlanta and works for a staffing and accounting consultancy, said he used FlyLite when he travels to Washington on business. 
 ''As a single dad, I've got a million things going on,'' he said. ''I get a huge sense of relief and comfort knowing that at both ends of a trip I don't have to pack and unpack.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Katherine Johnson, the founder of CarryOn, at the company's headquarters in Gainesville, Ga. CarryOn stores customers' clothing and then ships it ahead when they travel. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); AIRPORTS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); SKIING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%) Airlines and Airplanes; Luggage; Airports; Security and Warning Systems; Apparel; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



448 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Judge Says Oneida Indians Deserve a Chance for Redress

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
A federal judge yesterday rejected claims by the Oneida Indian Nation to land in upstate New York, but agreed with the tribe that it deserved a chance to prove it is owed some compensation for property that the state bought 200 or more years ago at unfairly low prices. 
 Ruling in a case that began in 1974, Judge Lawrence E. Kahn of the Northern District of New York said it would be too disruptive to return about 250,000 acres of land to the Oneidas, who claim it was taken from them illegally starting in the 1790s.
But he agreed with them that the state paid the tribe just a fraction of what the land was worth and resold it at a huge profit. The damages, when factoring in inflation and interest, could run into the hundreds of millions of dollars, according to the Oneidas.
 ''The court does not believe that the higher courts intended to or have barred plaintiffs from receiving any relief; to do so would deny the Oneidas the right to seek redress for long-suffered wrongs,'' the judge wrote.
 The Oneidas considered the judge's ruling a victory, particularly in light of other recent court decisions that have struck down land claims by Indian tribes.
 ''Everyone agrees the Oneida were cheated by the state,'' said Carey Ramos, a partner at Paul Weiss, which represents the Oneida of the Thames, who brought the suit along with tribal groups in New York and Wisconsin. ''The big question is when will they finally receive relief for this?''
 The ruling, Mr. Ramos said, ''certainly invites a resolution.''
 Christine Pritchard, a spokeswoman for Gov. Eliot Spitzer, said the state would appeal the decision and argue that it is contrary to rulings made in other cases in federal court.
 According to records submitted by the Oneidas, the state paid the tribe $113,213 for almost 200,000 acres bought before 1829. The state then sold the land for $626,067, for a profit of $512,854. The Oneidas claim that the state knowingly underpaid the tribe.
 Depending on the interest rates and compounding formula used, the tribe is owed hundreds of millions of dollars, Mr. Ramos said. But even such a large award would be far less than what the tribe originally sought: the current fair market value of the land is probably many billions of dollars. 
 Two other defendants in the case -- Oneida and Madison Counties, where the land in question is situated -- are effectively absolved. They did not buy or sell Oneida property, so they are not linked to the monetary damages. 
 ''We are out of the land claim business,'' said Rocco DiVeronica, chairman of the Board of Supervisors of Madison County. ''It sure is a relief. We felt we were right all along.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); JUDGES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DAMAGES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); APPEALS COURTS (73%) Indians, American; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Land Use Policies

ORGANIZATION: Oneida Indians

PERSON: ROSEMARY S POOLER (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%) Ken Belson; Lawrence E (Judge) Kahn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



449 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Bush Scorns Proposed Vote On Gonzales As Theater

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and DAVID JOHNSTON; Jim Rutenberg reported from Crawford, Tex., and David Johnston from Washington. Neil A. Lewis contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., May 21 

 BODY:
President Bush said on Monday that any effort by Congress to hold a no-confidence vote on Alberto R. Gonzales, his embattled attorney general, amounted to the ''kind of political theater that has caused the American people to lose confidence in how Washington operates.''
 In addition, the Justice Department on Monday released several hundred pages of internal communications and other documents, including previously withheld e-mail messages, that provided fresh insights into the Gonzales situation. Specifically, the documents showed the scramble by White House and Justice Department officials to limit damage caused by the uproar over the dismissals of United States attorneys as Congress was starting its inquiry into the firings this year. 
The department turned over the documents to House and Senate investigators before Wednesday's appearance at the House Judiciary Committee by Monica Goodling, the department's former White House liaison, who is testifying under a grant of immunity.
 In his remarks, the president addressed members of Congress as he added, ''They ought to get the job done of passing legislation as opposed to figuring out how to be actors on the political theater stage.''
 Mr. Bush's comments, made to reporters at his ranch home here, came as he was seeking Congressional approval of an overhaul of the immigration system and a package financing the Iraq war. 
 In addressing Congress broadly, his remarks also seemed aimed at some fellow Republicans, five of whom have called on Mr. Gonzales to resign. Others have expressed reservations about his leadership.
 But with the president's appointed head of the World Bank, Paul D. Wolfowitz, recently resigning amid accusations that he arranged a raise at the bank for his girlfriend, White House officials seem more intent than ever to stand by Mr. Gonzales. 
 For weeks, officials close to the president have told associates and allies that either man's resignation would be taken as a sign of weakness that could further embolden his critics. Others have said that replacing Mr. Gonzales was not palatable because any successor who could easily win confirmation from the Senate Judiciary Committee was not likely to be a White House favorite.
 Kevin Sullivan, the White House communications director, said that Mr. Gonzales's situation was unlike that of Mr. Wolfowitz and that Mr. Bush's support for Mr. Gonzales ''has never wavered.'' (Mr. Bush maintained his support for Mr. Wolfowitz until the end, as well.)
 After Mr. Bush spoke, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and a sponsor of the no-confidence resolution -- still being drafted -- released a statement that read: ''The president should understand that while he has confidence in Attorney General Gonzales, very few others do. The right thing to do is to replace him with a new attorney general who will restore confidence in the rule of law.''
 Democratic officials said they were uncertain that a no-confidence vote would be held this week. On Monday, two House Democrats, Representatives Adam B. Schiff of California and Artur Davis of Alabama, introduced a no-confidence resolution. The vote, whether in the Senate or House, would be nonbinding, and the White House has dismissed it as a parliamentary trick.
 Some of the released documents had been withheld by the department to protect what department officials referred to as ''confidentiality interests,'' as cited in a letter on Monday to the chairmen of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees. 
 Some of the documents provided a glimpse of how the department reacted internally to the Feb. 28, 2007, assertions of David C. Iglesias that he might have been dismissed as a federal prosecutor in New Mexico for political reasons.
 One of the documents is from J. Scott Jennings, a White House political official, who informed the Justice Department that morning that the chief of staff to Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, was concerned about Mr. Iglesias's accusation of political interference. Mr. Domenici is one of those who had phoned the prosecutor to ask whether he would be bringing criminal charges against Democrats in the state before Election Day.
 According to the documents, public affairs officials in the department quickly set about drafting a memorandum to dispute Mr. Iglesias, repeating the argument that he had been removed for reasons of performance. There is no evidence in the documents that the officials tried to evaluate Mr. Iglesias's accusation, but only sought to discredit his performance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); ETHICS (77%); DISMISSALS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (71%); IMMUNITY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Ethics; United States Attorneys

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%) Justice Department 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ALBERTO GONZALES (92%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) Alberto R (Atty Gen) Gonzales; George W (Pres) Bush; Jim Rutenberg; David Johnston; Neil A Lewis

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



450 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Trade Talks With China At a Juncture

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 21 

 BODY:
In recent weeks, the Bush administration has negotiated furiously with China to secure some eye-catching new agreements to unlock Chinese markets for American goods. China, in response, has told the United States that it plans new purchases of $30 billion -- a shopping spree that dwarfs any China has gone on previously.
 Now, on the eve of the ''strategic economic dialogue'' between senior officials of the world's fastest-growing and the world's biggest economies, the question is whether these steps will satisfy a Congress irate over a trade deficit with China that soared to $232 billion last year. 
''Some people will look at this and say there is not enough progress,'' Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. acknowledged in an interview Monday, referring to the dialogue he started last year. ''The key question is, Do we have more progress than we would have had otherwise?''
 Mr. Paulson said that the dialogue had kept tensions under control even as the administration in the last six months challenged Chinese practices at the World Trade Organization and threatened new duties on imports. 
 While the talks this week are focused on long-term issues like urging China to adopt market-based economic and monetary policies, Mr. Paulson said, ''I want to see specific accomplishments that are clear signposts that we're headed in the right direction.''
 He added that the accomplishments were likely to be in the areas of approving more routes for United States air passengers and cargo, granting financial services companies access to Chinese consumers and clearing the way for the sale of energy technologies, particularly clean-burning coal.
 Since taking office a year ago, Mr. Paulson has led the administration's efforts to head off protectionist legislation against China in Congress, an effort that became harder when the Democrats won the election last year in part on promises to get tougher with American trading partners. 
 In December Mr. Paulson took a large delegation of cabinet members, along with Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, to Beijing to try to improve the tense economic relationship.
 But administration officials acknowledge that their efforts have not produced many concrete results so far and that China has reacted with displeasure to plans in Congress to increase duties on Chinese goods or take other steps to curb Chinese exports and open Chinese markets.
 If the dialogue does not produce progress, the administration fears that it will be difficult to restrain Congress. The administration argues that with exports to China growing faster than imports, there is more to be lost than gained from a trade war.
 The signature development of the visit of Chinese cabinet members this week -- led by Vice Prime Minister Wu Yi, one of China's toughest trade negotiators -- is that the Chinese leaders will get a chance to look into the mouth of the tiger on Capitol Hill, where Congress seems to favor more confrontation over trade.
 Mr. Paulson has arranged for the Chinese to spend a fair amount of time with Republican and Democratic leaders to understand something that American officials say the Chinese have a hard time realizing: that Congress has its own priorities and approaches that the administration cannot always control.
 ''I've explained to them that Congress legislates and there will be trade legislation in Congress,'' Mr. Paulson said. ''I've also said that the Congress is, to a large extent, reflecting the views of the American people who don't believe that the benefits of trade are shared evenly or fairly.''
 On Friday, in a step apparently aimed at criticism of its economic practices, China's central bank announced that it would begin allowing the country's currency, the yuan, to fluctuate more during each day's foreign exchange trading. But it rebuffed the West's demand for a more steady rise in the yuan's value.
 The United States says that by keeping the value of the yuan low, China is trying to make the cost of its exports low and the cost of its imports high. Congress is threatening to retaliate with higher duties on Chinese goods if China does not change its currency practices.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who is a strong critic of China and its currency practices, said purchases of goods ahead of Ms. Wu's arrival would not help either. ''Instead of changing what they buy, they ought to change the rules by which they play,'' he said.
 The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, another longtime critic of China, plans to raise political as well as economic issues, a spokesman said. These will include matters like human rights abuses and China's rejection of sanctions against Sudan over the civil war in Darfur.
 But Representative Charles B. Rangel, the New York Democrat who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said that Democrats should be careful to speak honestly with the Chinese without damaging Chinese-American relations further.
 ''It does represent a diplomatic challenge that I'm not used to,'' Mr. Rangel said. ''My job will be to persuade the Chinese that the executive branch operates in a different manner from Congress without disrupting our diplomatic relationships.''
 In recent months the Commerce Department and the United States trade representative have adopted tough actions to get China to stop subsidizing exports and to crack down on piracy of DVDs and other items. There were rumors in Washington that the Chinese were so angry that they considered canceling the dialogue.
 Mr. Paulson said that in his many conversations with Ms. Wu, he never heard any word about China's not coming to Washington this week.
 This is a sensitive time for Mr. Paulson, a respected Wall Street figure before he came to the Treasury last year. Although he has seized control of overall China policy, he has ceded decisions on retaliatory actions and legal challenges to the Commerce Department and the trade representative's office.
 In the last month, he has worked with Susan C. Schwab, the top trade envoy, to broker a deal with Democrats to win Congressional passage of bilateral trade pacts with South Korea and three Latin American countries.
 But neither he nor Ms. Schwab has succeeded in getting agreement on a global trade deal, which they say is the administration's top international economic priority. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice Prime Minister Wu Yi of China is welcomed to the United States by Alan F. Holmer of the Treasury. Henry M. Paulson Jr. is at center. (Photo by Gerald Herbert/Associated Press)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); TRADE DISPUTES (66%); MONETARY POLICY (65%) International Trade and World Market; International Relations; United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%); WU YI (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Nancy (Speaker) Pelosi; Charles B (Rep) Rangel; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) China

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



451 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: CRITICS IN SENATE VOWING TO ALTER IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and MICHAEL LUO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 21 

 BODY:
As the Senate began work on a comprehensive immigration bill, lawmakers from both parties demanded substantial changes in the legislation on Monday and forced Senate leaders to extend debate beyond the Memorial Day recess.
 From the moment debate started, the crosscurrents buffeting the bill were evident. The intense lobbying since the bill emerged last week from three months of bipartisan negotiations is likely to be just a sample of what lawmakers will hear as they return home to their districts for the Memorial Day recess.
The bill overcame its first hurdle on Monday, a simple vote to begin debate on the hugely contentious measure. 
 The decision to extend debate followed four hours of speeches in which supporters and opponents of the bill agreed that the nation had lost control of its borders but disagreed on almost everything else. 
 ''There just simply is not enough time on this massive, massively important piece of legislation to do it all'' in one week, said the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada.
 The outlook for the bill is uncertain. President Bush strongly supports the measure, which incorporates many of his ideas. In the House, Democratic leaders say the president will have to deliver dozens of Republican votes that would be needed for passage.
 Some senators who voted to take up the legislation said they did not support the bill in its current form but hoped to improve it with amendments. 
 The measure, as it now stands, would offer legal status to most of the 12 million illegal immigrants, strengthen security at the border and increase penalties for employers of illegal immigrants.
 Democrats plan to offer amendments to eliminate or scale back provisions under which hundreds of thousands of temporary foreign workers would be admitted to the United States each year. 
 Critics contend that this program would create an underclass of immigrant workers who could adversely affect the wages and working conditions of Americans in some industries. 
 Republicans have drafted amendments to scale back the legalization program and to designate English as the national language.
 Leading the opposition to the bill were three Republicans, Jim Bunning of Kentucky, Jeff Sessions of Alabama and David Vitter of Louisiana.
 Mr. Sessions said the measure had been written behind closed doors, with no hearings or review by the Senate Judiciary Committee and no cost estimate by the Congressional Budget Office.
 ''The American people were not in those meetings,'' Mr. Sessions said. ''There are 85 senators who have no idea what's in the bill.''
 If Senate leaders had pushed the bill to final passage in one week, Mr. Sessions said, that would have been ''a railroad job, for sure.''
 Mr. Vitter said the bill offered ''pure unadulterated amnesty.'' 
 ''If the American people knew what was in this bill,'' he said, ''there would be a massive outcry against it.''
 Mr. Bunning said the bill would ''reward lawbreakers'' with ''a large-scale get-out-of-jail-free pass.''
 The chief Democratic architect of the bill, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, defended it as a prudent, urgently needed compromise.
 ''Our security is threatened in the post-9/11 world by borders out of control,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''Our values are tarnished when we allow 12 million human beings to live in the dark shadows of abuse as undocumented immigrants. Our competitiveness in a global economy is at risk when our employers cannot find the able workers they need.''
 Mr. Reid criticized the measure on several grounds. 
 ''The bill impacts families in a number of ways that I believe are unwise,'' he said. ''The bill also allows 400,000 low-skilled workers to come to America for three two-year terms, but requires them to go home for a year in between. 
 This is impractical both for the workers and for the American employers who need a stable, reliable work force.''
 Moreover, Mr. Reid said he feared that the bill would create ''a permanent underclass of people who are here to work in low-wage low-skill jobs, but do not have a chance to put down roots or benefit from the opportunities of American citizenship.''
 The majority leader also criticized a provision under which illegal immigrants who gained legal status would have to return to their home countries to apply for green cards, or permanent resident visas.
 This requirement ''will cause needless hardship for immigrants and needless bureaucracy for the government,'' Mr. Reid said.
 Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, said he was not trying to block the bill, but wanted time to understand it. 
 ''I don't know any piece of legislation that touches as many people in as many ways as this bill,'' Mr. Corker said.
 With its vote on Monday, the Senate agreed to limit debate, by invoking cloture, on a motion to take up the bill. The vote was 69 to 23, nine more votes than needed.
 Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, said: ''I will vote for cloture, but not because I support the underlying bill. I will support cloture only because I hope we can significantly improve this bill.''
 Thirty-eight Democrats, 30 Republicans and one independent voted to begin consideration of the bill. Four Democrats, 18 Republicans and one independent voted no. 
 The Texas senators, John Cornyn and Kay Bailey Hutchison, both Republicans, voted no, as did the Montana senators, Max Baucus and Jon Tester, who are Democrats.
 Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who helped forge the ''grand bargain'' on immigration, said he would make every effort to ''keep the deal in place.'' 
 He had harsh words for lawmakers who might try to block the bill without offering a solid alternative. 
 ''Doing nothing is a national security nightmare for this country,'' Mr. Graham said. ''If your goal is to stop this bill and you don't have an alternative that will secure our borders and deal with illegal immigration, you are not helping the country.''
 The bill would provide visas for 400,000 temporary workers a year. The number could be increased to 600,000 in response to demand from employers. 
 Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, said he would offer an amendment to limit the number to 200,000 a year.
 The bill, as written, ''puts us on a par with Kuwait or other countries who just depend on foreign workers and have a second-class group of workers doing inferior jobs but not having any real rights or privileges,'' Mr. Bingaman said.
 Republicans insisted that temporary workers should truly be temporary. 
 But Mr. Bingaman said, ''This idea of bringing people for two years, sending them back for a year, bringing them back for two years and then sending them back for a year is nonsensical.''
 In writing the measure, senators bypassed the Judiciary Committee, where immigration bills normally originate.
 The chairman of the committee, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, said, ''The bill we have before us is a product of closed-door meetings between the administration and Republican senators, which was then put to Democratic senators as a framework for further negotiations.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Jim Bunning of Kentucky with Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, left, both Republicans, at news conference on immigration yesterday. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); BUDGETS (64%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Foreign Labor; Law and Legislation; English Language; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: JEFF SESSIONS (89%); JIM BUNNING (58%); HARRY REID (58%); DAVID VITTER (58%) Robert Pear; Michael Luo

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



452 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Figuring The Next Field For the Mayor

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
This just in:
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has still not entered the presidential race. Thought you might want to know.
There is, of course, absolutely nothing new in this. Mr. Bloomberg has said he is not running for president more times than Paris Hilton has been arrested. Now and then he has even suggested that the country may not be ready for a vertically challenged, divorced Jewish billionaire -- let alone, he might have added, a vertically challenged, divorced Jewish billionaire who speaks about the institution of marriage with all the affection that Mahmoud Ahmadinejad feels for B'nai B'rith.
 But the speculation about Mr. Bloomberg and 2008 refuses to go away, in part because of the mayor's own coyness on the subject. 
 He had to know he would have people buzzing when he recently cranked up his old campaign Web site. He has gadded about the country talking about matters of national as well as local import: issues like gun control, immigration, energy and the environment. He even has friends saying anonymously that he is ready to spend $1 billion on a presidential campaign (this according to The Washington Times, a publication that, with a paid daily circulation of about 100,000, modestly calls itself ''America's newspaper'').
 So, like the evil doll Chucky, the chatter about the mayor's intentions will not die. It occurred to us, though, that perhaps his ambitions run in a different direction.
 Before his election in 2001, Mr. Bloomberg talked about four jobs that interested him enough to leave his information and communications company. They were mayor of New York, president of the United States, secretary general of the United Nations and president of the World Bank.
 Let's see. Mayor of New York? Been there, done that. Secretary general? That job is newly filled by Ban Ki-moon. President of the United States? Not interested, Mr. Bloomberg insists, even if not everyone takes him at his word.
 That leaves the World Bank. And wouldn't you know it, the position is suddenly vacant, thanks to the resignation of Paul D. Wolfowitz, who was pretty much told by the bank's board not to let the door hit him on his way out. Might the mayor be tempted now to raise his hand?
 To find out, we caught up with him yesterday in Downtown Brooklyn, where he had gone to boast that New York high school students are graduating within four years at record high rates.
 He announced this at the offices of the Council of School Supervisors and Administrators, on Court Street, where he sat and schmoozed with several dozen school officials. If we didn't know better, we might have compared the scene to the sort of retail politicking found every four years in a place like, oh, New Hampshire.
 In time, we got to ask about the World Bank job.
 ''I will not be selected,'' Mr. Bloomberg replied, somewhat curtly. ''I have a great job. I will stay here.''
 There you have it. We have exhausted his list of ideal positions. Don't be surprised, though, if the presidency speculation persists. In that regard, the mayor may want to bear in mind a possibly disturbing development.
 HIS reputation, obviously, depends on a perception that he has been an admirable steward of City Hall. There are storm clouds brewing, however. They are called the New York Yankees.
 Over the last six decades, it has been fair to say that as the Yankees go, so goes the city. In the 1950s, when the ball club was all but invincible, New York was in its glory. When the team began to fall apart in the mid-'60s, so did the city. Its three World Series appearances in the mid-to-late '70s matched the start of New York's recovery from near-bankruptcy.
 Then came lean times for the Yankees in the '80s and the early '90s, years of soaring crime rates and fear. But for the last decade the team has ridden the top of the waves. So has the city.
 You think these are coincidences? If so, then you may not be troubled by the fact that the Yanks have been mediocre this year, trailing far behind the dreaded Boston Red Sox and finding themselves uncomfortably close to last place in their division.
 But if you are a mayor who wants a well-run city, and who also may aspire to higher office, this is a situation ignored at your own peril. If only for his own good, Mr. Bloomberg may want to give the Yankees the same advice that he offered Tufts University graduates in a commencement speech on Sunday: ''Don't wuss out.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); PAID CIRCULATION (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (63%); HIGH SCHOOLS (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); ARRESTS (57%); IMMIGRATION (52%); GUN CONTROL (52%) Mayors

ORGANIZATION: B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); PARIS HILTON (57%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%); BAN KI-MOON (50%) Clyde Haberman; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



453 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Centrifuges

 BODY:
For a U.N.-baiting, diplomacy-bashing crowd, the Bush administration has shown unexpected patience in trying to persuade the Security Council to punish Iran for its nuclear misbehavior. And for a foot-dragging, conflict-averse crowd, the Security Council has moved with alacrity in imposing two sets of sanctions on Iran just since December. 
 Unfortunately, Iran is still playing to type.
Nine months after the Council ordered Tehran to suspend enriching uranium, inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency say Iran's scientists are close to mastering the process that would allow them to produce fuel for a nuclear weapon. 
 Some diplomats have begun arguing that now that the ''point of no return'' has passed, the Security Council should drop its insistence that Iran halt all enrichment -- and the sanctions attached to that demand -- and focus on trying to contain the size of the enrichment program and ensuring that inspectors can monitor the effort. That may well be where this will all end up. But it is far too soon to make that sort of concession, especially since Iran has a proven record of pocketing concessions and pushing its program ahead. 
 Given the urgency and ambition of Iran's nuclear program, what is needed is a more urgent and ambitious international response. Let us be clear, this is not a call for more White House saber rattling and certainly not for military planning. There is no military solution. But unless Iran's leaders are offered far more attractive rewards -- yes, we're talking about a grand bargain -- and threatened with far more painful punishments -- yes, that could mean another spike in world oil prices -- there is no chance of changing their behavior. 
 That means that President Bush is going to have to put a lot more on the table, including a clear offer of full diplomatic relations and security guarantees should Iran agree to verifiably contain its nuclear ambitions. And it also means that the Europeans, Russians and Chinese are going to have to take a lot more off the table, cutting back diplomatic and trade relations if Tehran continues to push its nuclear program ahead. 
 It is hard to decide which is making Tehran more cocky these days: its scientists' technical successes or America's disastrous failure in Iraq. But its recent talk of rationing gasoline -- now delayed -- shows a clear and present vulnerability. 
 Until now, both Mr. Bush and his diplomatic partners have managed to sidestep any really tough choices when it comes to Iran's nuclear program. The lesson of the new I.A.E.A. report is that the time for sidestepping has run out. What is needed is a frank and public discussion about the cost of Iran getting a nuclear weapon and what the world is willing to give and take away to try to prevent that. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CENTRIFUGES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (63%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%) Editorials; Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (83%) International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); IRAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



454 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Group Offers a Simple Fix for Alternative Minimum Tax

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
A levy originally intended to ensure that the richest investors cannot live tax-free is taking back a much larger portion of the Bush tax cuts going to those who make less than $100,000 than to those who earn more than $1 million, according to a new analysis by the Joint Committee on Taxation. 
 Separately, the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center said yesterday that a simulation using its widely respected computer model showed a simple way to eliminate the levy, known as the alternative minimum tax, for nearly everyone who makes less than $200,000. 
 The alternative tax will cost Americans who make $50,000 to $100,000 about $6.1 billion, or 13 percent, of their Bush tax cuts this year, according to the analysis by the committee, whose staff makes the official estimates that Congress uses to set tax policy. Those making $1 million or more would lose $2.2 billion, or 3 percent.
 The original tax, enacted in 1969, applied only to investors with high incomes -- more than $1 million, in today's dollars -- whose investment deductions permitted them to pay little or no tax. 
 A major change took place in 1986, under President Reagan, when most of the tax breaks for investors were replaced with routine breaks available to everyone, such as personal exemptions for taxpayers and their children, deductions for state and local taxes for those who itemize, and the standard deduction for those who do not. When President Bush, in 2001 and 2003, cut regular tax rates without changing the alternative tax rates, growing numbers of Americans making less than $1 million were pushed into the alternative tax system. 
 One result is a doubled tax bill for a family with four children under 17 and income of $75,000 that takes the standard deduction. That family pays an alternative tax of $3,800 instead of the $1,997 that would be owed under the regular tax, the Tax Policy Center calculated. Under either levy, the couple would get the tax credit of $1,000 a child championed by Republicans.
 The joint committee's estimate came in response to a request by Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee. Democratic tax staff members of that committee made the document available yesterday. The estimate assumed no change in behavior by taxpayers seeking to minimize the impact of the alternative tax.
 About 23 million Americans will owe the alternative tax this year, up from about 3 million last year.
 Both parties have promised to address the alternative levy this year, but no agreement exists on how to replace the revenue that would be lost, which estimates put at about $70 billion this year. The only three options are less spending, more borrowing or shifting the tax burden.
 The Tax Policy Center proposed a surtax of four percentage points on couples earning more than $200,000 and on single taxpayers and heads of household who earn half that, a relatively small group of taxpayers. 
 Over 10 years, the surtax would replace all but $92 billion of the estimated $850 billion the alternative tax would bring in over the same period, said Leonard E. Burman, co-director of the center, a joint venture of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution whose economists include former tax policy advisers to Presidents Reagan and Clinton and the first President Bush.
 Almost everyone making less than $200,000 would pay the same amount of taxes or get a tax cut. 
 Mr. Burman said the proposal ''is simple, eliminates a lot of complexity'' in the tax code and shifts the burden back onto those the original alternative levy was meant to affect. 
 The original levy focused on investors, however, while the center's proposal would have an equal impact on Americans with million-dollar-plus salaries and no investments.
 It would also undo most of the Bush tax cuts for the highest-income Americans, effectively creating a top tax rate of 39 percent on wages and 19 percent on capital gains. When Mr. Bush took office, the top rates were 39.6 percent on wages and 20 percent on capital gains. 
 More than three-quarters of the burden of the center's surtax proposal would be borne by those making more than $500,000. The surtax plan would roughly halve the alternative tax burden on those making $100,000 to $500,000, and would eliminate any burden for those with incomes under $100,000, which includes nearly 9 out of 10 Americans. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''One Way to Shift the Burden'' Amounts to be paid this year in alternative minimum tax by income group and how a repeal, plus a 4 percent surtax on high incomes, would shift the burden. INCOME GROUP: Less than $100,000 2007 A.M.T. ESTIMATES: $6.3 billion SHARE NOW: 9% PROPOSED SHARE: 0 INCOME GROUP: $100,000 to $200,000 2007 A.M.T. ESTIMATES: 24.8 SHARE NOW: 35 PROPOSED SHARE: 4% INCOME GROUP: $200,000 to $500,000 2007 A.M.T. ESTIMATES: 23.7 SHARE NOW: 38 PROPOSED SHARE: 20 INCOME GROUP: $500,000 to $1 million 2007 A.M.T. ESTIMATES: 3.2 SHARE NOW: 7 PROPOSED SHARE: 18 INCOME GROUP: $1 million and more 2007 A.M.T. ESTIMATES: 2.2 SHARE NOW: 10 PROPOSED SHARE: 58 (Sources by Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation
 Tax Policy Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (99%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (66%) Taxation; Alternative Minimum Tax; Taxation; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: Tax Policy Center

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



455 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: SUPPORTERS URGE PAKISTAN LEADER TO SHIFT COURSE

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL; David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, May 21 

 BODY:
After a series of political blunders in the last two months, Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, is being advised by his political supporters to make a dramatic change of course or risk losing power amid more chaos and bloodshed.
 Members of the ruling party, the Pakistani Muslim League, who provide General Musharraf's base of support in Parliament, say that nationwide protests since the suspension of the country's chief justice in March, and violent clashes that left 42 people dead in Karachi on May 12, have cast a pall over his leadership.
They are encouraging General Musharraf to strike a compromise with the Supreme Court justice, who did not shy away from challenges to the government and whose removal has been protested as a threat to the judiciary. 
 Some party members have also recommended that General Musharraf open the elections for the presidency, which are supposed to take place this year, to his exiled political opponents and that he make sure that the polling is free and fair. 
 The alternative to compromise, party members warn, is a hard-line military solution that leads only to greater confrontation.
 For the moment, General Musharraf seems to be sticking to his planned course to maintain power rather than seek conciliation with either the chief justice, Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry, or his political rivals, supporters and opponents say. 
 Last week the president repeated his insistence that there would be no deal to bring home either of the opposition leaders, Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif, who left the country under a cloud of corruption allegations.
 ''About their return before elections, no, there is nobody returning before elections,'' he told the private, Karachi-based Aaj Television in an interview on Friday.
 But a number of party members say they intend to push their case. Opposition members and some from the ruling party warn that not only is General Musharraf's future at stake, but also the stability of the country, which sits on the front line of American efforts to combat Taliban insurgents and Al Qaeda. 
 ''There are two ways he can go: retreat to the bunker or stop, pause, review, reflect and reverse course,'' said one ruling party member who did not want to be identified. ''He has to show leadership, magnanimity, and be loyal to the broader objective. The important thing is Pakistan's future.'' 
 Not least, the ruling party members, who also face elections this year, have become concerned for their own political fortunes. They acknowledged that both the president and the party have suffered from the public reaction to the chief justice's removal, which many concede the president did not anticipate. 
 The president's opponents and supporters alike now agree that the events of the past few months present the greatest domestic challenge to General Musharraf since he seized power in a bloodless coup in October 1999. 
 ''The government's interest is in lowering the temperature, defusing tension and keeping loyal to the objective of a transparent system that leads to the democratic transfer of power,'' said Mushahid Hussain Sayed, general secretary of the ruling party.
 ''It's the last thing you would want in an election year,'' he added. ''One thing after another is piling up, and most of these things are negative.'' 
 Asked about General Musharraf's growing troubles, a senior State Department official reiterated American support for the Pakistani president. ''Fundamentally the direction of the country is right,'' the official said. ''There is more pressure on extremists. They are moving in the direction of elections.'' The case of the Supreme Court justice, he added, ''needs to be handled as a judicial matter, and resolved in that way.'' 
 Other American officials say that the United States has treated General Musharraf with tremendous care in the past year, saying little about democracy, and taking no position on such questions as whether he should give up his military post and run as a civilian, a source of deep controversy here. 
 ''There is such concern about what a post-Musharraf Pakistan would look like,'' said one administration official, ''that the overwhelming reflex is to do nothing that destabilizes the situation.''
 Analysts warn that another misstep by the president, or a resort to more autocratic measures, such as declaring a state of emergency, could itself be disastrous and risk even more violence. Still, many fear the president will be tempted to dig in. 
 In the interview on Friday, General Musharraf voiced strong support for his coalition partner, Muttahida Quami Movement, a Karachi-based party that has a ''thuggish reputation,'' as the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies said in a recent paper. 
 The remark was taken as a sign that General Musharraf intends to continue with the status quo, however unpalatable, but also that he will stir up ethnic hostilities if necessary. The party's supporters, many of whom are immigrants, were blamed for much of the violence in Karachi. 
 In recent weeks the news media have been rife with speculation that the political situation had reached a point where General Musharraf was considering a deal that would allow Ms. Bhutto, who divides her time between London and Dubai, to return to political life in Pakistan and him to continue as a civilian president. 
 For her part, Ms. Bhutto has made it clear that there is no question of a power-sharing deal with the general, particularly after the Karachi violence, which left 15 of her party workers dead, along with 22 members of another opposition party, the Awami National Party. 
 The president's weakened standing will only make it more challenging for him to negotiate tricky political obstacles this year, not least his own election. Under Pakistan's system, the president is elected by the four provincial assemblies as well as Parliament. General Musharraf's term expires before that of the current Parliament, which then also faces elections. No dates have been set for either vote.
 Opposition parties have protested that reelection by the departing Parliament, where the president and his coalition allies hold a majority, would be unconstitutional. Even the president's supporters admit that such an election would look dubious after the recent upheavals and, in the current political climate, may not even succeed.
 But General Musharraf confirmed in the interview on Friday that that was his plan. He also indicated that he would try to bolster his standing by seeking some kind of extra mandate from a newly elected Parliament. 
 He suggested he would do the same regarding the constitutional amendment that has allowed him to hold both the positions of president and chief of army staff. The amendment expires at the end of the year. 
 The legality of holding both posts, as well as whether General Musharraf could be elected by the departin Parliament, are being challenged on constitutional grounds, and were the backdrop to the suspension of the chief justice. 
 Under Mr. Chaudhry's leadership, the Supreme Court was supposed to hear challenges to both issues, and his public positions seemed to indicate that he was not sympathetic to the government's view. 
 In the interview, the president said he would not violate the Constitution, but if a two-thirds majority in the current Parliament extended his right to hold both positions, he could continue to do so. 
 Still there have been some unsettling signals that Pakistan's intelligence and law enforcement agencies are ready to enforce that outcome through intimidation. 
 Opposition parties have accused the government of being behind the killing last week of the Supreme Court registrar, Syed Hammad Raza, 37, who worked as the chief of staff to Mr. Chaudhry. On Friday, Shakil Turabi, a news agency editor, was badly beaten in Islamabad after writing an article about the chief justice.
 ''I fear there may be other strong arms, strong-minded people, in the decision-making process, and he's done very badly if he has accepted their advice,'' said one ruling party legislator, who did not want to be identified expressing such sentiments, referring to Mr. Musharraf.
 The Supreme Court is currently considering a challenge by Mr. Chaudhry to his dismissal, and the court's decision should be accepted, whatever the outcome, said Mr. Hussain, of the ruling party. 
 Others are saying General Musharraf should give up the post of army chief and contest elections as a civilian leader, or at least allow all parties and personalities to participate in clean, transparent elections. 
 ''Musharraf has been a good ruler for Pakistan,'' said one longtime friend and supporter, Minoo P. Bhandara, a ruling party member of the national assembly. ''He brought in moderation, built bridges with India and Kashmir. On the economy he has done well. He has the credentials to go on for another five years.'' 
 Yet after seven and a half years in power, President Musharraf now suffers from the ''drag of incumbency,'' Mr. Bhandara said, and he needs a strong new mandate. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Julius Salik, center, a former cabinet minister, surrounded by other members of Pakistan's Christian minority, praying yesterday in Islamabad in support of the suspended chief justice, Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry. (Photo by Aamir Qureshi/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 Gen. Pervez Musharraf, Pakistan's president, is facing rising protests. (Photo by Burhan Ozbilici/Associated Press)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); COUPS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); RIOTS (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Demonstrations and Riots; Freedom and Human Rights; Elections

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (92%); NAWAZ SHARIF (58%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (58%) Carlotta Gall; Pervez (Gen) Musharraf; Iftikhar Mohammad (Chief Justice) Chaudhry

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (92%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Pakistan; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007



456 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Developing Ports of Many Modes

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
For decades, New Jersey developers have been recycling worn-out warehouses near the Hudson River into chic condos and fashionable retail centers. In cities like Hoboken, Jersey City and Weehawken, the value of a view of the Manhattan skyline across a milewide stretch of water overwhelms a site's value as a functional place to store and repackage goods. 
 Nevertheless, the warehouse and distribution business has remained vital to the New Jersey economy -- and indeed, the nation's. By all accounts, New Jersey is a linchpin in the national supply chain of roadways, rails, airports and ports. It has 1.4 billion square feet of industrial real estate, the equal of the Chicago area market and surpassed only by the Los Angeles-Southern California market. 
Now momentum is building to expand the industrial market further, with an emphasis on development near shipping ports. One of an anticipated new crop of ''intermodal ports,'' capable of receiving and distributing shipped goods by all means of transport, is being built near the loading docks in Carteret.
 The Portfields Initiative, a joint project of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the New Jersey Economic Development Authority, created a list of 17 brownfield sites in the state that could be cleaned up and turned into intermodal ports. The Carteret site is a former landfill, and the first such iPort under construction.
 There are 60 million consumers with a collective purchasing power of more than $1 trillion within overnight delivery range of New Jersey, according to the real estate company Cushman & Wakefield, which established a national industrial brokerage division a couple of months ago.
 In recent years the amount of cargo moving through the New York-New Jersey waterfront has risen rapidly -- 57 percent from 2000 to 2005, and 9 percent last year, according to Frank M. McDonough, president of the New York Shipping Association.
 Mr. McDonough and other industry representatives, real estate brokers, the Public Service Electric and Gas utility company and several municipal officials helped work on the iPort Initiative. The group is also working jointly on efforts to promote the 17 sites for development.
 Mindy S. Lissner, an industrial real estate specialist with CB Richard Ellis, said, ''The iPort Initiative provides various types of support to developers taking on these sites, some of which are current landfills or former industrial sites that may be contaminated, and turning them into state-of-the-art distribution centers.''
 Ms. Lissner worked on the initiative, and her company is now seeking tenants for the Carteret distribution center, which is being built on speculation, just off Exit 12 of the New Jersey Turnpike.
 At the 132-acre Carteret site, before construction could begin, a way had to be devised to remove, treat, replace and cap 600,000 cubic yards of waste from three landfills. 
 ''It was a huge project that involved relocating creeks and devising ways to control rainwater runoff that would be environmentally appropriate,'' said Jim Murray, a principal of the Panattoni Development Company of California, which is a partner with P/A Associates of New York in building the iPort 12 Trade and Logistics Center, as the complex is formally known. ''It's certainly not something that would be happening now without the concerted efforts of a lot of people to get things going.''
 His company received grants and technical support for site work, Mr. Murray said. The first of two buildings at iPort 12 is nearing completion, and construction of the second will probably begin later this year, he said.
 KSS Architects was brought in to create structures with ''the most up-to-date and best of everything,'' according to Mr. Murray. The structures will have 36-foot ceilings, and only four interior columns, allowing for maximum flexibility in using space. The first building is to cover 1.06 million square feet, and the second, 200,000.
 In this era of high security, some companies may want to install fingerprint recognition systems or other security measures, and the structures have been designed with this in mind, the developer added.
 Ms. Lissner of CB Richard Ellis said iPort 12 was singular among properties on the market in the region, because it offers a state-of-the-art structure combined with proximity to a port, rail lines, Newark Liberty International Airport and also Manhattan. It also offers the benefits of urban enterprise and foreign-trade zone status, providing tax breaks on goods moved through its doors, as part of the iPort Initiative. 
 ''There are two big things driving growth in the industrial sector right now,'' said Ms. Lissner. ''The first is that as the country shifts from manufacturing to a service economy, more and more products are being imported. And they are increasingly entering through the Northeast, after labor strikes in the West created logjams at the ports, and caused some shifts in paths of transport.'' 
 Another reason for growth in the industrial real estate market of New Jersey, Ms. Lissner said, is the lower rents than in New York.
 New Jersey's average industrial rents hover at $5 to $6 a square foot annually, compared with something more than twice that in New York, according to brokers. The asking rent at iPort 12 will be $8.50 a square foot, Mr. Murray said.
 ''We are basing that on the building's quality and its location,'' he said. ''We think we can get it -- especially given the sometimes ridiculous rents they're getting in New York.'' 
 Ms. Lissner did not sound quite as certain. ''It depends on the individual company's situation,'' she said. ''If you're faced with a $12 per square foot rent in the Bronx, and your labor is there, and your customers, would you move toward Newark for a better and newer building, and pay $6 per square foot? The answer is yes.
 ''But would you move to Newark for a better and newer building and pay $9 per square foot? Maybe.''
 She and other brokers predict an upturn in rents in New Jersey over all, however -- unless the many iPort projects all come to fruition in a relatively short period of time.
 ''If all the construction gets built,'' she said, ''that could flood the market with space and exert downward pressure on rents.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The iPort International Trade and Logistics Center is being built on the site of a former landfill in Carteret, N.J. (Photo by KSS Architects) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERMODAL SHIPPING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (75%); BROWNFIELD SITES (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%) Ships and Shipping ; Ports; Ships and Shipping 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (68%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%); PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS CO (64%); CBRE GROUP INC (57%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; New Jersey Economic Development Authority; Cushman & Wakefield

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (64%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%)

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Jersey; Carteret (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



457 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Savannah Adds to the Master Plan of 1733

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

DATELINE: SAVANNAH, Ga. 

 BODY:
As one of the oldest planned cities in the country, Savannah is known for compact, walkable streets and beautifully landscaped historic squares. Designed by the city's founder, James Oglethorpe, in 1733, it has remained largely intact even as electricity and cars were introduced, though buildings have changed uses over time.
 It is precisely this longevity that the Ambling Companies hopes to build on with the largest expansion of the historic downtown since Oglethorpe first envisioned it. Savannah River Landing, an $800 million mixed-use development currently under way, will extend the city east along the Savannah River on land that Oglethorpe platted but never made use of. 
More than four years ago, the city's economic development agency hired Christian Sottile, a Savannah-based urban planner, to update the Oglethorpe plan, which is now guiding the development of Ambling's 54-acre site. Mr. Sottile will be continuing a pattern of development that last had a major addition in 1856.
 ''What's so unique about Savannah River Landing, we were able to reach back 150 years and continue a history of urbanism native to this place,'' said Mr. Sottile, who teaches urban planning and design at the Savannah College of Art and Design. 
 ''With a conventional master plan, which often foresees all of the buildings from Day 1,'' he said, ''you freeze in time the mix of uses. This is the opposite. It's town-building. The streets come first, public spaces come first, and the blocks become spaces for building, which are not prescribed. It's highly unusual for American cities.'' 
 The developer is planning to build more than two million square feet of new space, including 2 hotels; 150,000 square feet of prime office space; 200,000 square feet of retail space; 4 condo buildings; 17 riverfront estates; and 110 town homes. The city is also extending the historic river walk by 2,000 feet. 
 The unbuilt land interspersed throughout all the development -- amounting to nearly half of the overall property -- will be deeded back to the city by the development company for public use. Plans for it include the creation of six town squares, to be planted with 40-foot Southern live oak trees. 
 One reason the original Oglethorpe plan for this site was never realized was the steep bluff along the river, which proved unbuildable. To shore up the bluff, Ambling has for almost a year been moving fill to the site, some of it trucked in from Ellis Square, one of the six squares originally laid out by Oglethorpe. 
 In the 1950s, Ellis was converted into a parking deck, which the city is now rebuilding underground as it restores the square. Rather than discard the fill from the excavation, Ambling is putting it to use on the bluff. 
 Once all the fill is in place, construction on Savannah River Landing will start; it could take as long as 10 years. Three projects are expected to get under way this summer: an office building designed by Duda/Paine, a North Carolina-based architecture firm; the first condo building with its riverfront pool terrace, by Niles Bolton of Atlanta; and the first phase of 20 town homes. 
 ''The beauty of the plan is, not only does it provide flexibility in terms of responding to market demands, it creates an environment that's already understood, with parks and squares,'' said F. Kevin King, president of Ambling Land and Resort, one of six affiliates of the Ambling Companies. ''And it's outside of the historic district, so there's flexibility in terms of the building design and architecture. We want this to look to the future as much as the city's rich history.''
 In addition to the historic urban plan, Savannah has many layers of architectural styles, including Victorian, Colonial, Italianate and Federalist. To continue this variety, Ambling has sought designs for riverfront estates from architects around the country, including Alexander Gorlin, who is based in New York. His offering is traditional. Taking cues from the historic squares, it imagines a house with terraces organized around a central courtyard. 
 ''Savannah has one of the great plans in the world,'' Mr. Gorlin said. ''The squares give you this breath of greenery every few blocks. That is partly what I had in mind here by creating a series of terraces and an interior courtyard.''
 In addition to having a large and difficult site to contend with, the developers face several obstructions in connecting that site to the downtown. While Savannah River Landing has streets platted with an eye toward linking the old with the new, that won't be immediately possible. 
 One obstruction is a 10-acre area called Trustee's Garden, which Oglethorpe designed as an experiment in growing silk, peaches and medicinal plants. The garden did not last long; it is currently the site of several old and dilapidated buildings.
 Another problem is a series of empty warehouses blocking direct connection between downtown streets and Savannah River Landing.
 While plans are still preliminary, another developer, Charles Morris, has bought those sites and is working with the city to come up with a solution. He is contemplating bringing in the New York-based Project for Public Spaces to figure out a way to save the historic buildings while creating a connection to downtown.
 There is also a highway south of the Ambling site that links to the downtown: the city plans to convert it into a boulevard. 
 ''All of these streets, we have to make the connections happen,'' said Lise Sundrla, executive director of the Savannah Development and Renewal Authority, a city agency created in 1992. Having overseen the process of developing the Ambling site for more than five years, Ms. Sundrla believes that while those street connections are critical, the city's extension of the river walk and the willingness of developers to respect the city's history have set the entire project on the right course.
 ''By continuing the historic city plan to the east,'' she said, ''what we're doing is expanding downtown. We're not creating a pod development that could have a negative impact on downtown. If we had allowed an Anytown U.S.A. shopping development, we would have set a precedent for the future that would have etched away at the heart of Savannah. 
 ''Instead, we have the bone structure in downtown Savannah laid out in 1733 that set the pace not just for roads and squares, but mixed-use development. That has made the city so unique, healthy and vital all these years.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Savannah River Landing in progress. Above left, executives of the developer, the Ambling Companies, include, from left, Eddy Benoit Jr., Ryan Holmes and F. Kevin King, with Christian Sottile, an urban planner. Above right, a rendering of the project, which includes a river walk. (Photos by Top and left, Stephen Morton for The New York Times
 bottom right, Niles Bolton & Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); RIVERS (71%); RETAIL PROPERTY (63%) Geographic Profiles; Area Planning and Renewal; Savannah River Landing (Ga) 

ORGANIZATION: Ambling Companies

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain; James Oglethorpe; Christian Sottile

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Savannah (Ga); Savannah River; Savannah (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



458 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Staples Says Sales Fell Short of Estimates

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The office supplies retailer Staples reported first-quarter sales that fell short of analysts' estimates yesterday and gave a cautious outlook for the remainder of the year. 
 In a conference call, the chief executive, Ronald L. Sargent, said that the ''choppy top-line results'' in North America were likely to raise concerns about the economy.
''The consumer and the very small business customer who are important components of our retail business are feeling pressure,'' he said.
 The company said quarterly profit rose 12.4 percent, meeting Wall Street's expectations, driven by higher sales of laptop computers and continued growth in its copy and print service businesses.
 Net income increased to $209 million, or 29 cents a share, from $186 million, or 25 cents, a year earlier.
 The company, based in Framingham, Mass., said quarterly sales rose 8 percent, to $4.59 billion, from $4.24 billion a year ago.
 Analysts, on average, expected the retailer to earn 29 cents a share on $4.7 billion in sales, according to Reuters Estimates.
 Staples said it was taking a cautious approach regarding expectations for the rest of the year.
 The company expects 15 percent to 20 percent earnings growth for the second quarter and full year and earnings at the low end of its forecast of $1.43 to $1.49 a share for fiscal 2007.
 The company also said that it expected double-digit total sales growth for the second quarter and full year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (91%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); QUICK PRINTING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (55%) Company Reports ; Office Equipment

ORGANIZATION: Staples Inc

PERSON: RONALD L SARGENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



459 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: How to Win the Energy War

BYLINE: By Frank G. Zarb. 
Frank G. Zarb, the managing director of a private equity firm, was the assistant to the president for energy affairs in the Ford administration.

 BODY:
WITH as prices hitting yet another all-time high, consider this: while history is littered with examples of countries that were forced to change their domestic and foreign policies because of the lack of a natural resource, there are very few notable instances of nations that had the ability to eliminate such a vulnerability but didn't. America's current energy condition, however, is a spectacular example of such a failure. Consider four facts:
 No. 1: The United States is very vulnerable to the interruption of its imported oil supply.
No. 2: This dependence on oil has a huge effect on our foreign, military and economic policies. 
 No. 3: America could have reduced its vulnerability if it had taken decisive action after the 1973 Arab oil embargo. (In 1973 America imported 35 percent of the oil it used; today that figure is greater than 60 percent.)
 No. 4: We have never adopted a credible plan to reduce our dependency principally because of a lack of political will. 
 Back in 1975, President Gerald Ford used his State of the Union message to inform Americans how dangerous our growing dependence on foreign oil was: ''We, the United States, are not blameless. Our growing dependence upon foreign sources has been adding to our vulnerability for years and years, and we did nothing to prepare ourselves for such an event as the embargo of 1973.''
 But he did more than fret. He had a plan. ''Within the next 10 years,'' he announced, ''my program envisions 200 major nuclear power plants, 250 major new coal mines, 150 major coal-fired power plants, 30 major new refineries, 20 major new synthetic fuel plants, the drilling of many thousands of new wells, the insulation of 18 million homes and the manufacturing and sale of millions of new automobiles, trucks and buses that use much less fuel.''
 It was clear that President Ford's initiatives would materially reduce dependence on oil imports, but would also increase consumer energy costs and raise important environmental problems. Liberals complained about ''excessive'' new energy production efforts, and the right about the heavy hand of government. 
 While the Congress debated, the normal oil supply from the Middle East resumed and prices came down. Congressional economists put forward new arguments on what they believed to be the appropriate pricing of crude oil as reasons to avoid the harsh medicine President Ford advocated. 
 But there were two major flaws in these pricing models, which have bedeviled our energy policies ever since. First, OPEC has a very different idea of what is ''appropriate.'' Second, the normal laws of supply and demand did not apply. Supply is determined by how many barrels of oil producers are willing to pump, refine and transport at any given time. And this is affected more by international politics and less by international economics.
 The price volatility caused by this unique market has long caused business to limit its investment in new, higher-cost energy supplies. In response, the Ford administration studied various ways to institute a floor price for oil and guarantee an annual price escalation over 15 to 20 years. The thinking here was that if business could depend on a predetermined escalation of prices, it would make the necessary investment in production and conservation technology. Interesting concept but again the liberals roared with outrage and the conservatives laughed at such meddling with the economy. The idea went nowhere. 
 A few modest measures from the Ford program were passed by Congress, including the strategic petroleum reserve, which stockpiles oil in case the Middle Eastern spigot gets shut off, and having retailers label appliances for energy efficiency and automobiles for mileage. But, obviously, this was far short of what was necessary.
 In a fit of frustration, I asked Senator Henry Jackson, the Washington Democrat who headed the Senate Energy Committee, what we needed to do to reawaken Congressional interest. He asked me if I knew how to start another Arab embargo. He was right. Without a crisis, a real national energy program could not get past normal political paralysis. The Ford initiative was the last real national attempt to reduce our vulnerability.
 Jimmy Carter talked the talk, calling our energy situation the ''moral equivalent of war.'' But his only real accomplishment was the Synthetic Fuels Corporation, which was supposed to spearhead research into energy alternatives but quickly became a multibillion-dollar boondoggle. 
 Ronald Reagan offered a package of tax incentives for domestic oil and gas production and, wisely, dismantled the Synthetic Fuels Corporation, but that was about it. George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton and now George W. Bush followed with proposals to open more public land for domestic oil production, to create tax subsidies for ethanol, to mandate more fuel-efficient automobiles and other research and development programs -- none of which can or will have a substantial impact on oil imports. 
 So here we are, 30 years later, with oil prices higher than ever and greater dependence on imported oil. Since one of the current presidential candidates will inherit this mess, shouldn't we ask each of them to spell out the details of his or her energy plan? I'll lay out some ground rules. Any credible strategy needs to reduce oil consumption and increase other energy supplies. All of the measures in the plan need to add up to a significant reduction in imported oil in the relatively near term, say, within 10 to 12 years. 
 I have a few suggestions. First, gasoline prices must send the right signals to change consumer driving and car-buying behavior. For many years there have been arguments about a gasoline tax of 10 cents or 20 cents per gallon. And now we are seeing price changes in that range from week to week. But the driving public believes that such price increases are temporary, so driving behavior doesn't really change. And long-term car purchase decisions aren't based upon perceived short-term price fluctuations. 
 To ensure that price signals are consistent and clear, we could levy a truly substantial gasoline tax -- something like 50 cents per gallon to start, followed by 50 cent increases in each of the following three years -- with rebates for lower-income taxpayers. The revenue from this levy could be used to pay for tax credits for fuel-efficient autos. We should also have automakers improve their corporate average fleet economy -- commonly called CAFE standards -- by at least 4 percent per year. Increasing tax incentives for the production and purchase of alternative-fuel vehicles would also help. 
 The other major way to wean us from oil is to resume construction of nuclear power plants. Nuclear energy is the cleanest and best option for America's electric power supply, yet it has been stalled by decades of unproductive debate. Our current commercial nuclear power plants have an outstanding record of safety and security, and new designs will only raise performance. How can Washington help? One thing would be federal legislation to streamline the licensing of new plants and the approval of sites for them.
 The basic elements of a responsible energy policy are not complicated, but the politics are horrendous. Still, we can't continue to throw empty rhetoric at the issue, using the oil companies as political punching bags and relying on our troops to keep the oil flowing. 
 I once told President Ford that some of our energy proposals were angering both Democrats and Republicans. His reply: ''We must have it just right!'' If only the presidential candidates could show the same sort of courage. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jim Frazier) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (69%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (69%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (68%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (68%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); LEGISLATION (64%); COAL MINING (63%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Taxation; Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy; Law and Legislation; Presidential Election of 2008; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Election Issues ; Factories and Industrial Plants; Rebates 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%)

PERSON: Frank G Zarb; Gerald Rudolph Jr (1913-2006) Ford

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



460 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Demand and Costs Rise for Best Cuts

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
AT $42, a nicely charred 16-ounce slab of prime boneless strip loin might not seem like much of a bargain now, but it could soon. 
 Over the past two months or so the cost of producing beef and the demand for it have risen so much that prices are soaring and the supply of top quality beef has dropped. Customers at steakhouses and markets will see the effects in coming weeks if they haven't already.
''Beef is going through the roof,'' said Richard Romanoff, the president of Nebraskaland, a wholesaler in the Hunts Point Market in the Bronx. ''And there's not enough prime and top choice to satisfy the demand.''
 The price of steers ready for slaughter jumped to 98 cents a pound last month from 83 cents a pound in April 2006, according to Urner Barry, a publisher of marketing reports. After slaughtering, transporting and butchering, a restaurant's cost for a well-trimmed steak may be 30 percent higher, said Bob Mark, director of sales for Buckhead Beef Northeast, in South Plainfield, N.J., a division of Buckhead Beef, a wholesaler based in Atlanta. 
 The last time prices reached those levels was at the end of 2003, but they dropped sharply in early 2004. This time people in the meat business think the increase will be more persistent.
 ''The bottom line is that we have to assume that beef prices will not come down any time soon,'' said Ephraim Leibtag, an economist who specializes in retail stores and restaurants for the Economic Research Service of the Department of Agriculture.
 Many of the factors pushing up prices are also affecting quality. 
 The demand for ethanol and a harsh winter have caused the price of corn to rise about 60 percent over the past few months. Farmers are planting more corn now, but Mr. Leibtag would not predict a price drop soon. 
 The price of feed and the higher cost of fuel for transport have led producers to bring their cattle to slaughter when they are younger and lighter so they can save money and get a faster return on their investment. ''The cattle should be on feed 120 to 140 days, but the cattlemen have been cutting it to 60 to 90 days,'' said Kevin Brown, the head buyer for Buckhead Beef Northeast. ''The meat does not have the same chance to become as marbled because the animals are smaller, so the quality is down.'' 
 The quality of beef has also been hurt by the stress of a hard winter. 
 Adam Perry Lang, the chef at Robert's Steakhouse in Manhattan, said that some farmers are supplementing corn feed with cheaper wheat and soy, giving the beef less flavor and less marbling.
 In the past about 2 percent of all beef graded out as prime -- the top variety, the most well marbled, with flavorful, tenderizing fat. Some wholesalers think that may have dropped to as low as 0.5 percent. The supply of top levels of choice beef, the next grade, has also shrunk. 
 Even if a restaurant says it is serving prime meat, it may not be. If your steak lacks a deep beefiness and is too chewy to be pleasurable, it is probably choice grade. And if no grade is given on the menu, you can be sure it is choice.
 The shortage of prime beef has led Marilyn Spiera, an owner of Peter Luger Steak House in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, to cut back on reservations, close the restaurant earlier each day and book fewer large parties, which she also did the last time beef prices were this high, in 2003. ''It's hitting us worse now,'' she said, noting that prime beef that meets her standards is scarcer now. The restaurant recently increased the price of the porterhouse for two, to $81 from $79.90. 
 Yet demand continues to escalate. The number of steakhouses grows every year. The Zagat Survey of New York restaurants for 2007, for example, lists 80 steakhouses, an increase of about 10 percent from the year before. And after banning American beef for several years because of concerns about mad cow disease, Japan and South Korea are now permitting imports. 
 ''More steakhouses are competing for less product,'' said Paul Brogowski, a meat buyer for Nebraskaland. ''And the higher prices are not scaring anyone away.'' 
 Many steakhouses have not raised their prices -- yet. ''You own a steakhouse and you are faced with either losing a great deal of your profitability or losing customers,'' Mr. Mark, the wholesaler, said. Peter Glazier of the Glazier Group, which owns Strip House steakhouses as well as Michael Jordan's steakhouse, said, ''For now, we're eating the increases.'' 
 The Palm steakhouse chain has raised the price of its steaks by $2, and side dishes have gone up 50 cents to help compensate for the price of the beef. ''I don't think our customers have noticed,'' said Walter H. McClure, the chief operating officer of the Palm Restaurant Group.
 Tom Colicchio, whose lineup at Craftsteak includes grass-fed beef, which is less affected by the cost of corn, said he was thinking about raising prices. Laurent Tourondel, whose BLT restaurants serve hanger and flat iron steaks in addition to the luxury cuts, said he bought all his supplies in January, guaranteeing his price until the end of the year.
 Marc Murphy, an owner of Landmarc, in TriBeCa and in the Time Warner Center, said higher prices and lower quality have not been a problem. But his hanger, skirt, strip loin, fillet and rib-eye are all choice grade. 
 Most supermarket shoppers buy choice grade. Mr. Leibtag of the Department of Agriculture said shoppers would soon be affected by rising costs and limited supply. The most recent average retail supermarket prices for choice grade that the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, a trade group based in Chicago, could provide were from March. They reflected an overall 2 percent increase compared with the year before. 
 But people in the meat business anticipate bigger increases. ''The first strategy you'll see in supermarkets is that instead of raising their prices they will offer fewer specials, offer them less frequently and at smaller discounts,'' Mr. Leibtag said. ''You may notice it right now, before the weekend and the start of the grilling season.''
 Ray Venezia, the meat buyer for Fairway Markets, which sells prime and choice beef, said some of his customers were turning to less luxurious cuts, like flank and skirt steak. But, he added, even skirt steaks are more expensive. ''I remember a couple of years ago when they were $3.99 a pound,'' he said. ''Now they're $6.99 or more.'' 
 Skirt steak, first popularized for fajitas, now has a wider audience and represents a rich-tasting alternative for home grilling. 
 The hanger steak, a classic French cut that was first made popular here by French chefs (they call it onglet), is becoming a staple. It's on the menu at A Voce, BLT Steak and L'Atelier de Joel Robuchon. 
 Flat iron steak, from the shoulder or chuck (and a cut that proves there is a great deal in a clever name), has caught on. At Chinatown Brasserie it is dressed up with black pepper sauce. Some home cooks use this tasty cut for braising, but it is also suitable for the grill or a cast-iron skillet. 
 Lobel's of New York, the platinum-price Upper East Side butcher, has started selling flat iron steaks on its Web site. 
 Once these steaks are grilled or broiled, let thinner cuts rest five minutes, thicker ones 10 minutes, before serving or slicing to help keep the juices inside and improve their texture. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: SHORT SUPPLY -- Peter Luger Steak House has cut back on reservations. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
(Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. F4) Chart: With prices for top-quality beef starting to rise, home cooks about to light their grills can try less luxurious cuts. Choice grade boneless shell steaks (also called New York strip) now run about $17 a pound, and sometimes cost 50 percent more for prime. But some cheaper cuts will deliver satisfying flavor and acceptable tenderness. Prices below are from New York markets for choice grade, but with hanger steak, prime is worth the extra expense. ALSO KNOWN AS 1. Hanger Steak -- Butcher's tenderloin 2. Flank Steak -- London broil 3. Flat Iron Steak -- Top chuck, top blade, chicken steak 4. Skirt Steak -- Romanian tenderloin AVERAGE WEIGHT 1. Hanger Steak -- 1.5 pounds (2 to 3 servings) 2. Flank Steak -- 2 pounds (3 to 6 servings) 3. Flat Iron Steak -- 5 to 8 ounces (single serving) 4. Skirt Steak -- 1 to 1.25 pounds (2 to 3 servings) PRICE PER POUND 1. Hanger Steak -- $7 to $12 2. Flank Steak -- $10 to $12 3. Flat Iron Steak -- $5 to $10 4. Skirt Steak -- $6 to $12 SERVING 1. Hanger Steak -- Grill, broil
whole or butterflied, marinated or not
whole steak can be pan-seared, then roasted 2. Flank Steak -- Grill, broil, can be marinated 3. Flat Iron Steak -- Grill, broil, pan-sear 4. Skirt Steak -- Marinate
 grill, broil, pansear, thread pieces or narrow strips on skewers PREPARATION 1. Hanger Steak -- Sliced across the grain 1-inch thick or divided into individual portions 2. Flank Steak -- Sliced at an angle across the grain and as thin as possible 3. Flat Iron Steak -- Individual portions 4. Skirt Steak -- Cut in sections, in strips (pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF (90%); MEAT WHOLESALERS (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MAMMALS (86%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (77%); FOOD PRICES (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); MEATS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); LIVESTOCK FEED (76%); ALCOHOLS (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BIOFUELS (68%); AGRICULTURE (68%); RETAILERS (67%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (64%); ETHANOL (63%) Meat; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Restaurants; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICES INC (54%)

PERSON: Florence Fabricant

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



461 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Cracks in the Financial Foundation; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1797 words

HEADLINE: Roles of 3 Institutions Questioned in a Changing Global Economy

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 22 

 BODY:
The crisis has ended over Paul D. Wolfowitz, the president of the World Bank who resigned last week. But the bank's identity crisis has just begun.
 Indeed, the entire international economic architecture established after World War II -- the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and what is now called the World Trade Organization -- is buckling under the weight of globalization, trade disputes and the ambitions of rising economic powers in Asia and elsewhere, experts and policy makers said.
The World Bank and its sister institution, the monetary fund, were established in 1944 at Bretton Woods, N.H., to secure the international economy. The bank was supposed to rebuild Europe and reduce poverty elsewhere with grants and loans. The monetary fund tries to avert financial meltdowns by monitoring countries' economic policies. The trade organization, which grew out of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of 1947, seeks to ensure the smooth flow of goods and services that keeps the world economy growing. 
 Today, however, all three institutions are facing questions about their relevance in a global economy. The current round of trade talks by the World Trade Organization could fail -- in what would be the first such failure in 60 years. The bank and the fund have made billions of dollars in loans to scores of exporting countries in Latin America, Asia and the Middle East, but some of the recipients are awash in trillions of dollars in reserves. 
 The World Bank's cumulative lending to China, for example, is $40 billion for 274 projects. But China is now an export superpower, sitting on more than $1 trillion in reserves, and is so wealthy that it recently announced its own $20 billion program of loans and credits to Africa. Many question whether the bank should be lending to China at all. 
 ''The Bretton Woods system has become outmoded,'' said former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, chairman of the executive committee at Citigroup. ''It has served us very well for a long time, but these institutions haven't changed with the times. They need to be rethought and restructured.''
 Eckhard Deutscher, a German development official who serves as the dean of the World Bank's directors, called for a re-examination of the role of all the institutions.
 ''The biggest challenge of the World Bank is to restore its credibility,'' Mr. Deutscher said. ''But the international community also needs to look at the whole system. There are governance problems across the board.'' 
 The most immediate issue the bank and the fund must face, experts said, is who governs them.
 The recent bank crisis erupted over a narrow dispute over charges of favoritism against Mr. Wolfowitz. But it exposed a larger fissure over whether the United States can retain its role of picking the bank president at a time when American contributions to the pool of grants and loans to the poorest have fallen in relation to what other countries do.
 President Bush's appointment of Mr. Wolfowitz, an architect of the Iraq war, as World Bank president in 2005 was not popular with the Europeans, but they went along with it. Now the administration wants to retain the power to pick the bank president, and Europe wants to continue picking the head of the monetary fund. But there is a growing consensus that this dual tradition is outdated.
 ''The Wolfowitz situation exposed what an antediluvian system the bank has,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, professor of public policy and economics at Harvard, referring to how the head of the organization is chosen. ''But I'm worried that this crisis is going to set back the reform process.''
 Some vested interests within the bank, Mr. Rogoff said, do not want to admit that its role in lending -- the total was $23 billion last year -- has become less relevant to current realities.
 Last year, more than $14 billion of the bank's lending went to so-called middle-income countries like China and India. The bank borrows the money at low cost because of its peerless credit rating, then lends it at slightly above that rate. The money it makes on the loans helps pay the bank's overhead, including the salaries of its 13,000 employees.
 Some bank officials acknowledge that one reason for continuing loans to middle-income countries is that their repayments keep the bank staff large enough to provide technical assistance and analysis needed the world over by donors and recipients alike.
 In 2000, an advisory commission created by Congress and headed by Allan H. Meltzer, professor of political economy and public policy at Carnegie Mellon, recommended stopping loans to middle-income countries and converting loans to the poorest countries to grants.
 Mr. Meltzer said he once had high hopes that Mr. Wolfowitz would transform the bank in this direction and was disappointed that he did not.
 ''The basic problem for the bank is that it's hard to see what good it has done anywhere,'' Mr. Meltzer said. ''The big gains in poverty reduction have come from opening markets, not from bank loans. The bank does not push programs enough for that.''
 In the months before his resignation, Mr. Wolfowitz defended the lending to middle-income countries as a necessary part of providing technical assistance to help them alleviate poverty. That approach heartened many at the bank who argue that it cannot walk away from the poor of China and India, who outnumber the poor in sub-Saharan Africa.
 ''The bank cannot afford to withdraw from the middle-income countries, which face tremendous inequalities in their societies,'' said Mark Malloch Brown, a former head of the United Nations Development Program who was chief of staff to the former United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan. ''The bank must continue to be involved.''
 Another problem for the bank, however, is that while it lends and makes grants to the world's poorest countries -- $9.5 billion last year -- the bank itself has become marginalized in the overall global effort for the poor. 
 World Bank figures show, for example, that the bank's own contribution to the poorest countries amounts to only about 7 percent of the government-backed aid they get from 230 international aid agencies, including regional development banks and special funds in Europe for disease, education, maternal health and other programs. Large sums are also going to poor countries through private foundations.
 During the crisis surrounding Mr. Wolfowitz, European countries threatened to channel money for the poorest countries through other agencies. Now that he is leaving, many experts said, that is bound to happen anyway.
 The United States, moreover, is certain to step up its campaign to reduce corruption among recipient countries, continuing a policy that led to fights between Mr. Wolfowitz and the bank board. That demand could also cause European donors to turn away from the bank.
 But if the bank becomes even more of a minor player in terms of money for the poorest, many experts said it is bound to remain important. The next bank president, they said, must champion the role of the bank more than ever.
 ''The bank is often the equivalent of a strategic partner in many poor countries,'' said Nancy Birdsall, president of the Center for Global Development, a policy research organization based in Washington. 
 While the bank faces power struggles over who gets to pick its president, a similar power struggle over voting rights is under way at the monetary fund.
 Last year, the United States won approval for giving slightly more voting shares to China, Turkey and other fast-growing export-driven countries. But in the next year, as still more power goes to growing countries, it will come at the expense of smaller European countries. 
 Like the World Bank, the fund is becoming more marginal. The world economy has been so successful that the fund, which helped bail out Mexico, other Latin American countries and several Asian countries in the 1990s, is now underemployed. So many countries have paid off their loans that interest income is down and the fund is in a budget squeeze, looking at whether to sell gold bullion to meet expenses.
 Its search for a new role has emboldened its critics, especially those who feel that its bailouts of the 1990s were ill advised on the grounds that they made countries complacent about their bad policies.
 ''In the past I have called for the abolition of the I.M.F.,'' said former Secretary of State George P. Shultz, who is also a former Treasury secretary. ''If it disappeared tomorrow, I don't think people would miss it very much.''
 Criticism of the monetary fund has also erupted from leaders in Asia and Latin America whose countries staggered under austerity programs imposed by the fund in return for the bailouts of the 1990s. These leaders have begun discussing plans for regional funds to compete with the International Monetary Fund. 
 But many economists say that the fund will be needed when, inevitably, the next crisis occurs. 
 ''We happen to be in a very quiet time at the moment,'' said Richard N. Cooper, a professor of international economics at Harvard. ''People are saying, 'Who needs it?' I am morally certain that financial crises are not a thing of the past, and that we'll see crises in the future. The I.M.F. is the obvious collaborative instrument to deal with them.''
 The Bush administration has nonetheless made no secret of its disdain for the monetary fund, saying that the institution has been ''asleep at the wheel'' when it should be more aggressively monitoring currency manipulations and underlying economic inequities in China and other countries.
 Monetary fund officials counter that the fund is monitoring these issues but is constrained by its charter from doing as much about them as the administration wants.
 The World Trade Organization, established in 1995 as the successor to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, is struggling mightily to salvage the current round of trade talks that started five years ago at Doha, Qatar.
 Many trade experts fear that if the talks fail, it could lead to a reversal of 60 years of opening the trading system to more goods and services. 
 The Doha talks are at an impasse because the United States and Europe are refusing to lower barriers on farm goods, and both are demanding that India and other exporting countries lower barriers of their own.
 A crisis mood has descended over the talks, with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. warning that if they fail, a new era of protectionism could be ushered in. The fear is that the World Trade Organization, which is supposed to promote trade, will become a vehicle for lawsuits and protectionist actions threatening higher barriers, leading to a slowdown in the global economy. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: In December 2005, Paul D. Wolfowitz, the World Bank president, visited a slum in Sao Paulo, Brazil. (Photo by Alex Silva/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C8) Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); WORLD WAR II (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information; International Trade and World Market; Credit; Economic Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Monetary Fund; World Trade Organization

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: Steven R Weisman; Paul D Wolfowitz; Eckhard Deutscher

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Latin America; Middle East 

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



462 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1690 words

HEADLINE: A Chef To the Few Heeds the Call Of the Many

BYLINE: By Frank Bruni

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
IN a vast dining room on the edge of Center City here, children squirm at tables where families of four or five have come to eat. Young couples clamor for perches at a counter facing a pizza oven, then graze their way through salads, sausage and gelato. The ceiling is high, the platoon of servers large, the decibel count formidable. It's a typical night at Osteria.
 Not far away at Vetri, the clink of silverware can be heard during lulls in conversation. One of only a few attendants lifts a whole branzino high in the air, inviting adoration of its glittering salt robe, then spirits it back to the kitchen so it can be anointed with a white truffle sauce. That's a journey of just a few paces through a narrow town house that could be mistaken for somebody's home, at least if that somebody was capable of a prosciutto-stuffed guinea hen as sumptuous as the one here. When hushed diners bite into it, their eyes glaze with pleasure. 
 There's a lot the restaurants Osteria and Vetri don't have in common. There's one very lucky thing they do. Both are helmed by Marc Vetri, whose enormous talents have brought him a widespread, fervent regard he has never really exploited. And with the opening of Osteria in February, he has taken a huge step. He has bucked his obsessive, controlling nature and accepted what is apparently nearly every acclaimed contemporary chef's fate: to multitask across multiple stages.
 It's a move he resisted for years, and it's fraught with suspense. Can he replicate Vetri's magic at Osteria? Can he preserve it at Vetri? I recently visited both restaurants to try to get a sense of that.
 Vetri has been open since 1998, and its exposure and Mr. Vetri's renown have always been limited somewhat by its humble size -- it has only about 35 seats -- and his reluctance to stray far beyond it. Time and again Philadelphia developers would approach him and his business partner, Jeff Benjamin, who owns Vetri and Osteria with him, about doing a second restaurant as part of one urban project or another.
 He would say no.
 Atlantic City would come calling, beckoning him toward the beach, where two of Philadelphia's other most celebrated cooks, Georges Perrier and Susanna Foo, had planted umbrellas. 
 He would say no.
 He didn't want partners other than Mr. Benjamin, because he wasn't sure he could trust partners other than Mr. Benjamin. He didn't need a fresh challenge, because he wasn't restless.
 ''I just loved my work,'' Mr. Vetri, 40, told me when I called him following my visits to Vetri and Osteria. ''I loved my restaurant. I really got to be creative there, and I was loving that.''
 ''Not everybody,'' he later added, ''has the personality and the wherewithal to do television shows and other restaurants.''
 So why the agreement, in early 2006, to construct Osteria, which is on the ground floor of a new lofts development in a gentrifying area of the city? For one thing, the deal he and Mr. Benjamin got let them do it without taking on investors, though they did max out several credit cards.
 As Mr. Benjamin, 38, told me during a separate phone conversation, ''It's really nice that when we have our stockholders' meeting, it's the two of us over a cup of coffee.''
 In addition, Mr. Vetri's family life was changing. He and his wife were about to have their first child. Making more money seemed like a smart idea.
 And then there was that twitch, faint but undeniable, when he watched professional acquaintances like Mario Batali do their television shows, build their empires. 
 ''There's the worry: maybe I'm missing the bandwagon,'' Mr. Vetri said.
 Osteria is much different from Vetri. It has a red concrete floor and 65 seats, not counting about a dozen bar stools and a large private dining room in back. The average entree at Vetri is about $36. At Osteria it's about $26, and the menu's focus is really elsewhere: on the pizzas, starters, pasta dishes, sides.
 It fits a familiar pattern: chef with refined restaurant lavishes his or her talents on a more affordable, easygoing offspring. Osteria is to Vetri as Craftbar is to Craft. 
 But Mr. Vetri said it's not a product of a carefully plotted strategy. It's the answer to a long-held desire to open a casual restaurant, much like the ones he admires in Italy, where a diner can grab a plate of arugula or a bowl of bucatini without any ceremony.
 Despite the differences between Osteria and Vetri, they clearly spring from the same source: a chef entranced with cured meats and organ meats and meats that aren't ubiquitous like wild boar, rabbit and goat.
 Vetri is where you find the goat. It's spit-roasted over oak in the parking lot out back before it's finished in the oven inside, and it emerges from the process in such crunchy, fatty and tender form that I could make a case for goat's being the new duck, or duck on testosterone therapy. Mr. Vetri relishes big, brawny dishes.
 And silken, oozing ones. Egg yolks pop up -- and gush forth -- frequently. There's one on the ''lombarda'' pizza at Osteria; it mingles with cotechino (a sausage made in house from pork shoulder and fatback) and with mozzarella and bitto cheeses.
 At Vetri there's a yolk in the center of a delicate asparagus flan, and another in an ultrarich appetizer of chopped sauteed veal kidneys flavored with Cognac and paired with soft polenta. Mr. Vetri repeatedly brings soft polenta into play.
 He uses freshly made noodles for virtually all the pasta dishes at both restaurants. And his orientation is more northern than southern Italian. That's especially pronounced at Vetri, where the taste of butter comes through more often and more strongly than the taste of olive oil and where you could easily eat a meal or two without bumping into a tomato. 
 I liked Vetri (1312 Spruce Street, 215-732-3478 or vetriristorante.com) immensely; if it's suffering from the birth of Osteria and the division of Mr. Vetri's attention, I didn't see the signs. Dining there two nights in a row, I couldn't work my way through as much of the menu as I do when I review a New York restaurant and visit more frequently. But most of what I ate was wonderful, suggesting to me that Vetri ranks with the very best Italian restaurants in New York. 
 My favorite dishes achieved elegance without attitude, an attribute that's not all that common. I think of those veal kidneys. And of that flan. And of that guinea hen, so incredibly tender, and stuffed with not only prosciutto but also foie gras and a mixture including ground thigh meat, innards, nutmeg and pistachio. And of ravioli filled with sweetbread and served in a braised veal sauce. There's something opulently French about Mr. Vetri's Italian, and Vetri's wine list tracks with that, presenting selections from both countries.
 The restaurant's setting on the main floor of a town house gives it an irresistible coziness and intimacy, and it's filled with amusing touches: a shelf of playfully shaped decanters; green and gold chessboard ceilings in the bathrooms, where the walls behind the sinks are covered with broken sections of ceramic plates.
 The one discordant note during dinner at Vetri was the service. No particular server takes charge of your table or of the front door; everybody is supposed to pitch in. And restaurants turn out to be like presidential administrations: if no one is forced to take ultimate responsibility, no one will. For short stretches, my companions and I felt abandoned.
 Osteria was an even rockier experience, and a less impressive one, illustrating some of the perils facing restaurateurs who tackle an entirely new kind of venture. Mr. Benjamin and Mr. Vetri have had to field a larger team of greener servers, some of whom struggled to talk accurately about the menu.
 They have miscalculated in some ways. The long counter facing the pizza oven and other cooking equipment is too tall for the stools, which are scrunched too close together, and a panel on the far side of the counter rises too high to permit a clear glimpse of what cooks are doing, seemingly negating the whole point of the arrangement.
 Pasta was overcooked in several underseasoned dishes I tried, including fusilli with fava beans, pecorino and mint, and bucatini with a testa (pig's head) ragu. And an excess of vinegary dressing obscured the pleasures of folds of beef that had been cured for a full month in a mixture including juniper berries, sage, rosemary and peppercorns. Almost all of the cured meats Mr. Vetri serves at Osteria and Vetri are made in house.
 So is his porchetta, thinly sliced pork loin and belly that is at once ethereally textured and deeply flavored. He uses the slices in a porchetta tonnato and on a porchetta pizza, which also has fennel and mozzarella. It's great, and Mr. Vetri flouts the current culinary rage by doing Roman-style crusts, which are thinner and crunchier than Neapolitan ones.
 The oak-burning stone oven in which they're baked is used for other dishes as well. It was the source of a smoky, succulent pressed chicken entree, which came with a gratin of escarole and Parmesan that was just the sort of gooey, rich, salty concoction Mr. Vetri does so well.
 Osteria (640 North Broad Street, 215-763-0920 or osteriaphilly.com) had its charms, including a tender appetizer of grilled octopus; a rib-eye with just the right char; a Nutella pizza, dusted with powdered sugar, that didn't taste nearly as hokey as it sounds; an affordably priced, almost entirely Italian wine list; and a sommelier, Karina Lyons, who's as personable and contagiously enthusiastic a guide as any diner could wish for. Even when I was disappointed with my food, I was having a good time.
 And I was confident Mr. Vetri would whip things into better shape. I could see him darting around, his face a study in unalloyed concentration, as he alternately said his obligatory hellos to regulars and looked over the shoulders of kitchen workers, tasting and tweaking what they were doing.
 He apparently spends half of every night at Vetri, half at Osteria, because he can't just let either of them be. That would be hazardous. That would also be some other chef. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: FORMAL OR EASYGOING -- At Vetri in Philadelphia, above and bottom right, Marc Vetri cooks dishes like salt-crusted branzino and prosciutto-stuffed guinea hen, center right. Osteria, top right, is the more informal place of the chef, in white jacket. (Photographs by Steve Legato for The New York Times)(pg. F5)
 LEARNING TO JUGGLE -- Marc Vetri at Osteria. (Photo by Steve Legato for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%) Restaurants; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Vetri (Philadelphia Restaurant); Osteria (Philadelphia Restaurant)

PERSON: Frank Bruni; Marc Vetri; Jeff Benjamin

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%) Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



463 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: It's Not That the Boss Seems Distant. It's Just That He Doesn't Exist.

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
To describe ''The Boss of It All,'' Lars von Trier's acidic corporate comedy, as '' 'The Office' Viewed Through the Looking Glass'' only scratches the surface of the newest film from one of the foremost tricksters of world cinema. At the outset Mr. von Trier, shown standing behind a window, disingenuously announces that the movie is ''a comedy and harmless as such: no preaching or swaying of opinion.'' 
 Strictly speaking, that may be true, although throughout the movie you sense a diabolical aesthetic anarchist scheming to upend your expectations. 
Unlike his recent pseudo-epics, ''Dogville'' and ''Manderlay,'' ''The Boss of It All'' is not a nose-thumbing critique of American history filtered through a left-wing European perspective by this Danish director and writer. Mr. von Trier's first film in Danish since ''The Idiots,'' it is a small, inexpensive movie without marquee names. Its politics, such as they are, remain safely across the Atlantic and have to do with the supposed antipathy between sentimental Danes and chilly Icelanders. 
 As this layered satire of power and the relationships of bosses and employees, directors and actors unfolds, Mr. von Trier pops up two more times to assert his supremacy as the movie's Brechtian puppetmaster. Although the characters wonder out loud about the identity of ''the boss of all bosses'' of a company that is on the verge of being sold, the honcho in chief is really Mr. von Trier gleefully pulling the strings of a story whose tone he manipulates at his whim.
 The movie is organized around a structural joke. It uses a new camera technique called Automavision, whose purpose is to limit human control over cinematography. Shots that begin from a fixed camera position are randomly tilted, angled and zoomed by a computer. A character may suddenly disappear from the frame. The technique is a metaphor for the movie's vision of a corporate culture running amok in its own insane rules. 
 But the implications are double-edged, for in human terms there is no boss; technology rules. The screenplay is clotted with jargon that makes little sense, and there is no attempt to explain it or to describe what the company produces, beyond the clear suggestion that it is a high-tech outfit. 
 The games begin with the hiring of Kristoffer (Jens Albinus), a sour, unemployed actor, by the company's director, Ravn (Peter Gantzler). Kristoffer's job is to impersonate Svend, the company's top executive, who supposedly runs its day-to-day operations from the United States and communicates only via e-mail. 
 This nonexistent boss was invented by Ravn to deflect the heat from disgruntled employees onto someone else. But since the company's prospective buyer, Finnur (Thor Fridriksson), a hard-nosed Icelandic mogul, insists that Svend appear in person to sign the papers, someone has to play the role.
 Kristoffer is a funny caricature of the kind of humorless actor, steeped in theory, who takes his job much too seriously. A slavish devotee of a fictional Italian playwright and madman named Gambini, he sinks into his task with an alarming intensity, trying out various line readings. Initially unaware that he been thrown into a rats' nest, he treats his encounters with the six senior employees under Ravn as improvisations. 
 Ravn has told him nothing about the six, who lent him the money to establish the company, and whom Ravn plans to fire without giving them their fair share of profits, once the papers are signed. Lise (Iben Hjejle), an employee who was led to believe that Svend was gay, immediately recognizes the lie and pressures Kristoffer into having sex on a desk. 
 Kristoffer discovers that Ravn has represented Svend differently to each of the six, and ''The Boss of it All'' turns into a deadpan farce of misunderstandings and embarrassments, as several refer to inappropriately intimate communications from Svend about which Kristoffer knows nothing. The story takes another mean twist when Finnur's lawyer shows up and turns out to be Kristoffer's scornful ex-wife, Kisser (Sofie Grabol). 
 Like all of Mr. von Trier's films, ''The Boss of It All'' is a cold, misanthropic work that places no faith in institutions and in humanity itself. But it's also very funny. Those at the top of the corporate pecking order, like Ravn and Finnur, are liars and manipulators. Below them are self-important fools, the blind leading the blind, playing walk-on parts that they delude themselves into believing are starring roles. The Boss of It All Opens today in Manhattan; also on Video on Demand. Written (in Danish, with English subtitles) and directed by Lars von Trier; director of photography, Automavision; edited by Molly M. Stensgaard; produced by Meta Louis Foldager, Vibeke Windelov and Signe Jensen; released by IFC First Take. At the IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 99 minutes. This film is not rated. WITH: Jens Albinus (Kristoffer), Peter Gantzler (Ravn), Thor Fridriksson (Finnur Fridrik), Benedikt Erlingsson (Interpreter), Iben Hjejle (Lise) and Henrik Prip (Nalle). 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from ''The Boss of It All,'' a comedy written and directed by Lars von Trier. The film is his first in Danish since ''The Idiots'' in 1998. (Photo by Automavision/IFC First Take) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (77%); WRITERS (73%); HISTORY (68%); WORKPLACE MORALE (65%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: Stephen Holden; Lars Von Trier; Jens Albinus; Peter Gantzler; Thor Fridriksson

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%) UNITED STATES (90%); DENMARK (90%); ICELAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



464 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page ; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Raid Leaves Sense of Dread In Hispanic Students

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN. 
Samuel G. Freedman is a professor of journalism at Columbia University. His e-mail address is sgfreedman @nytimes.com.

DATELINE: WILLMAR, Minn. 

 BODY:
The day before everything happened, Alex Sorto left Willmar High School as usual at 2:30, and grabbed a ride to his night job as a janitor at the Jennie-O turkey processing plant. He had been working there for four months, saving money for college tuition, and hoping to study art even though his mother wanted him to be a lawyer.
 Alex had already heard there were immigration agents in town, raiding the trailer parks and rented homes of the Hispanics who had flocked to this county seat on the Minnesota prairie in search of work at Jennie-O. Alex believed that because he was a citizen, he was safe. 
So he put in his eight hours sweeping and swabbing, and went home to finish up the portfolio that was his final project for communications class. The portfolio consisted mostly of an autobiography. In it Alex recalled his early years in Los Angeles, the child of two Honduran immigrants, and the divorce that sent him and his mother, Rosa Sorto, to a green-shingled duplex on Ann Street in Willmar.
 As a senior, just a few weeks from graduation, Alex had already passed the required state tests, which were being administered at Willmar High the next morning. 
 So he knew he could sleep late, a rare treat on a weekday, before starting his regular classes.
 The next thing he knew, at the unfair hour of 6:30 a.m. on April 13, he heard a banging noise. Groggy, he at first assumed the racket came from the family upstairs. 
 By the time he tugged on a pair of jeans and walked toward the living room, he could hear nearby voices shouting. He saw his mother on the couch, being peppered with questions by four immigration agents -- questions about her papers, questions about his, questions about two single men who rented rooms from them. In his entire life, all 18 years, Alex had never seen her so close to crying.
 In the end, the agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement accepted the proof that Alex and his mother, who has permanent resident status, were legal. The two renters, Roberto and Augustine, were led away in handcuffs, Roberto wearing only his boxer shorts.
 Then Ms. Sorto discovered how the agents had apparently entered her apartment; the window of the locked side door, intact the previous night, was now broken. 
 Even after all the tumult, Ms. Sorto insisted that Alex go to school. Even though it was 8:30, and he had no classes for another hour, she drove him there. He watched her hands quake as she tried to steer. In art class, his favorite, he could not get his pencil to move. All he could think about was what would become of him if his mother were taken away.
 Such was the triumph of Operation Cross Check, the federal raid against illegal immigrants that went on for four days last month in this community of about 18,500 people. To the Department of Homeland Security, the operation was a success, catching a convicted sex offender and several welfare cheats among its 49 arrests. In a news release announcing the toll, an immigration enforcement director for Minnesota said, ''Our job is to help protect the public from those who commit crimes.''
 Yet more than half of those arrested had committed no crime other than being in the United States illegally, doing the jobs at Jennie-O that prop up the local economy. And, as the experience of Alex Sorto demonstrates, the aggressive, invasive style of the sweep instilled lasting fear among Willmar's 3,000 Hispanics, many of them students born or naturalized in the United States. These young people are the political football in America's bitter, unresolved battle about immigration.
 ''All of us are scared,'' said Andrea Gallegos, a junior at the high school. ''When you go to school, you don't know if your parents will be there when you come home. I don't feel safe anywhere -- walking to the school bus, walking outside the school building.''
 Sharon Tollefson, a guidance counselor, had one promising student vanish in the aftermath of the raid. The young man, whom she identified by only his first name, Santiago, had been attending both day and night classes to graduate this spring. Ms. Tollefson was helping to arrange for him to visit a local college, where he planned to study law enforcement with the goal of becoming a police officer.
 The first morning of the raids, April 10, Santiago took his required state test in writing. The next day, when he was supposed to sit for the math exam, he did not show up at school. Ms. Tollefson has since heard rumors that he was deported to Mexico.
 ''He was working his fanny off,'' Ms. Tollefson said, almost wistfully, in an interview last week. ''I keep saying I'm not taking him off my roster. I can't believe he won't be coming back.''
 THE objections to the immigration raid go far beyond the anecdotal. A group of about 30 Hispanic residents of Willmar, including Alex and Rosa Sorto, has filed suit in United States District Court in Minneapolis, alleging that the immigration and domestic security agencies violated the Constitution. The suit maintains that the armed officers engaged in racial profiling, and that they broke into private homes without search warrants as part of a ''campaign of terror and intimidation.''
 Tim Counts, a spokesman for the immigration agency in Minnesota, declined yesterday to answer the suit's allegations in detail, beyond saying that the operation was ''fully within the law and appropriate.'' He also said that homes were entered only with the permission of residents, and added, ''We will make our case in the court of law.''
 When Alex Sorto moved to Willmar in the late 1990s, he said he kept quiet about his past. He felt as if he was the only child in school with divorced parents. Over time, he grew comfortable enough to share the secret without being ostracized.
 Since that April morning, Friday the 13th, he has reacquired the habit of silence. His communications teacher suggested that he try to put the whole experience out of his thoughts. But she isn't the one who worries about what could happen if his mother gets stopped by ''la Migra,'' as the immigration agents are known, on a day she left her driver's license at home.
 ''This was the year everything was supposed to go right for me,'' Alex said. ''And then all this happened.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alex Sorto, 18, a senior in high school in Willmar, Minn., and his mother say immigration agents broke into their home in April. (Photo by Bill Zimmer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TUITION FEES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); POULTRY PROCESSING (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); LITIGATION (76%); TRAILER PARKS (71%); REFUGEES (71%); COUNTIES (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%) Immigration and Refugees; Education and Schools; Hispanic-Americans; Mexican-Americans; Illegal Immigrants; Suits and Litigation; Children and Youth; Colleges and Universities; Veterans; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (84%) Dartmouth College

PERSON: Samuel G Freedman; Alex Soto; Tamar Lewin; James (Dartmouth Pres) Wright

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (78%) Wilmar (Minn); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



465 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; SEOUL JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Tracking an Online Trend, and a Route to Suicide

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, May 22 

 BODY:
From their nondescript sixth-floor office, Kim Hee-joo and five other social workers troll the Internet to combat a disturbing trend in South Korea: people using the Web to trade tips about suicide and, in some cases, to form suicide pacts.
 ''There are so many of them,'' said Mr. Kim, secretary general of the Korea Association for Suicide Prevention, a private counseling group working to decrease the number of suicides, which nearly doubled from 6,440 in 2000 to 12,047 in 2005, the last year for which government figures are available.
One of the recent Internet suicide pacts involved two women who died of carbon monoxide poisoning in a one-room apartment south of Seoul. 
 In another, five young men and women who made a pact over the Internet and had failed in two previous suicide attempts drove to a seaside motel to discuss more effective methods. There, one member of the group had a change of heart and slipped out to call the police. 
 Figures released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development show that South Korea's suicide rate stood at 18.7 per 100,000 people in 2002 -- up from 10.2 in 1985. In 2002, Japan's rate was the same as South Korea's, but the rate in the United States was 10.2 per 100,000.
 Experts attribute the increase to the stresses of rapid modernization and the degradation of rural life, but they are also concerned that the Internet is contributing to the jump. South Korea has one of the world's highest rates of broadband access and, as in Japan in recent years, the Internet has become a lethally efficient means of bringing together people with suicide on their minds.
 In hardly more than a generation, South Korea has transformed itself from an agrarian society into an extremely competitive, technologically advanced economy where the pressure to succeed at school and work is intense.
 Meanwhile, the traditional support base, the family, is under pressure: divorce rates are at a record high. And guarantees of lifetime employment evaporated with the Asian financial crisis in the 1990s.
 In 2005, in the first rally of its kind, hundreds of high school students demonstrated in central Seoul, shouting, ''We aren't study machines!'' They gathered to mourn 15 students from around the country who had killed themselves, apparently because of the intense pressure to succeed.
 The government does not compile figures on how many suicides may have been inspired or aided by the Internet. But in an analysis of 191 group suicides reported in the news media from June 1998 to May 2006, Kim Jung-jin, a sociologist at Korea Nazarene University, found that nearly a third of the cases involved people who had formed suicide pacts through Internet chat sites.
 In Korea, the Internet has been implicated not only for helping people get together to die, but also for widely sharing individuals' suicidal thoughts.
 One well-known actress, Jeong Da-bin, 27, posted her thoughts on her Web site a day before killing herself on Feb. 10.
 Under the title ''The End,'' she wrote: ''For no reason at all, I am going crazy with anger. Then, as if lightening had struck, all becomes quiet.
 ''Then the Lord comes to me. The Lord says I will be O.K. YES, I WILL BE O.K.''
 Counseling centers in Seoul said calls for help jumped in the days after her death. 
 Notes like Ms. Jeong's -- or ones that call for help in dying -- are not difficult to find on Internet bulletin boards in Korea.
 ''I really want to kill myself,'' said a Yahoo Korea Web posting in April by an anonymous teenager who complained of bullying at school and his parents' pressure to improve his grades. ''I only have 30,000 won,'' or about $32, he wrote, adding: ''Can anyone sell me a suicide drug? I don't want a painful death like jumping from a high place.''
 In March a 28-year-old man who ran a suicide-related blog called ''Trip to Heaven'' was arrested on a charge of selling potassium cyanide to a 15-year-old boy he met via the Internet. The boy used the poison to kill himself.
 Since 2005, Web portals, acting under pressure from civic groups, have banned words like suicide and death from the names of blogs. If a user keys in ''suicide,'' search engines display links to counseling centers at the top of their search results.
 Also in 2005, the Korea Internet Safety Commission, a government watchdog on cyberspace, ordered the removal of 566 blogs, chat groups and Web postings that encouraged suicide, up sharply from 93 cases a year earlier. The figure declined to 147 in 2006 and rose again to 161 in the first four months of this year.
 The government is taking or discussing other measures to impede suicide as well. Since nearly 40 percent of South Koreans who kill themselves do so by drinking pesticides or jumping, the government is considering making pesticides less toxic and is installing more barriers on rooftops and bridges.
 The Seoul subway system began erecting glass walls on platforms after 95 people, some wearing black plastic bags over their heads, threw themselves in front of subway trains in 2003, according to transit officials. Doors in the glass wall open only when trains pull into the station.
 Kim Hee-joo's counseling group discovers an average of 100 suicide-related Web sites each month and asks portals to delete them. A few are serious enough that the staff alerts the police to possible violations of laws against assisting suicide or trading in hazardous substances.
 ''People used to use blog names like 'Let's Die Together,' '' said Mr. Kim. ''Now they're more careful. Once they've met each other they shut down the site and switch to e-mail and cellphones. You need a lot of searching and hunches and luck to track down these people.''
 Recently Mr. Kim's team discovered a blog called ''Life Is Tough,'' described by its creator as a meeting place for people contemplating suicide. The site attracted several people who left their cellphone numbers and e-mail addresses to link up with others who wanted to ''take the trip together.''
 The police are now searching for the blog's creator, who could face charges of aiding suicide, a crime punishable by up to 10 years in prison on conviction.
 ''People are social animals,'' said Jason Lee, director of the Metropolitan Mental Health Center in Seoul. ''Some apparently want a companion even when committing suicide.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker at Utopia Memorial House in Ansung last week walked by ashes of Jeong Da-bin, left, and Yuni, two entertainers who killed themselves. (Photo by Seoyong Lee for The International Herald Tribune) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE (95%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TEEN SUICIDE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); POISONINGS (77%); CARBON MONOXIDE (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); BROADBAND (63%); HIGH SCHOOLS (61%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (54%) Computers and the Internet; Suicides and Suicide Attempts

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: Choe Sang-Hun

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



466 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Troubled Lender Sells Division And Brings in New Leadership

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Fremont General Corporation, a financial services company caught up in the subprime mortgage lending mess, said yesterday that it had agreed to sell its commercial real estate unit for $1.9 billion and bring in new managers. 
 IStar Financial, a real estate lending and leasing company, will buy the commercial loan business, Fremont said.
The new management team will be led by Gerald J. Ford, who once ran Golden State Bancorp. Fremont will also receive $80 million for selling a minority stake in the remaining business to a group of investors led by Mr. Ford.
 Stock in Fremont, which is based in Santa Monica, Calif., rose $2.89, or 40.7 percent, to close at $10.
 The cash infusion will allow Fremont, whose shares have fallen more than two-thirds in the last year, to stay in business as a retail bank with 22 branches in California. 
 The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation told Fremont in March to stop making home loans to unqualified borrowers, and it accused management of running the bank with ''detrimental'' policies and practices.
 ''This guarantees their survival,'' said Theodore Kovaleff, an analyst at Sky Capital in New York. ''The commercial-lending side was one of the things that truly set Fremont apart from the other subprime lenders.''
 Mr. Ford will be Fremont's new chairman, succeeding James A. McIntyre. Mr. Ford was chairman and chief executive of Golden State, which operated in California and Nevada, until it was sold to Citigroup in 2002 for $5.8 billion.
 Fremont's chief executive, Louis J. Rampino, will be succeeded by Carl Webb, who was Golden State's president and chief operating officer under Mr. Ford. Golden State's former chief financial adviser, J. Randy Staff, will succeed Patrick Lamb as Fremont's chief financial officer.
 Daniel Hilley, a spokesman for Fremont, said the F.D.I.C.'s order was ''one of the factors'' behind the change in management. He declined to discuss other factors.
 Defaults on subprime loans, which are made to borrowers with poor credit ratings or high debt burdens, saddled Fremont with a fourth-quarter loss that has not been fully quantified. Fremont also missed the March deadline for filing its annual report with securities regulators, citing a review of its accounting for the value of its portfolio of home loans.
 Fremont agreed last month to sell its home-lending and mortgage-servicing business to the hedge fund Ellington Capital Management for an undisclosed sum. 
 IStar is based in New York. Its chief executive, Jay Sugarman, said in a statement that IStar had worked as a co-lender with Fremont and was familiar with its operations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); LEASING INDUSTRY (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); PROPERTY LEASES (73%); RETAIL BANKING (71%); BANK BRANCHES (71%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Housing; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Housing; Interest Rates; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Mortgages

COMPANY: SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (93%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%); GOLDEN STATE BANCORP INC (72%); ISTAR FINANCIAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Fremont General Corp; Istar Financial Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); SFI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%)

PERSON: GERALD J FORD (90%) Gerald J Ford; James A McIntyre; Louis J Rampino; Carl Webb; J Randy Staff; Patrick Lamb

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



467 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: California Wants Strict Auto Emission Rules

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., May 22 

 BODY:
Officials from California demanded on Tuesday that federal regulators allow the state to impose the strictest automobile and light truck emissions rules in the nation. They said that new regulations were needed to lessen the threat of global warming and threatened to sue if the government did not allow them to go forward.
 California's attorney general, Jerry Brown, told an Environmental Protection Agency panel here that the proposed standards on greenhouse gases were the most comprehensive effort in the nation's history to address issues experts attribute to the gradual warming of the planet, including melting ice caps, rising sea levels and rampant wildfires. 
''Protecting our planet is not a partisan issue, and the states now want to do what we can in the absence of federal action,'' said Mr. Brown, a former governor of California, ''and the E.P.A. has no right to deny us the ability to move forward.''
 A representative of the auto industry warned that adopting the new California standards would be ''counterproductive,'' raising the price of cars, costing jobs and imposing inconsistent auto emissions standards around the country. 
 Mr. Brown noted that the auto and oil industries objected to the new rules, but urged the E.P.A. panel to overrule them in the interests of the broader public.
 Eleven other states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, have said they will adopt the California standards if the federal government approves them. Together they account for roughly 30 percent of the American population and 30 percent of the vehicles on the road. Tailpipe emissions from cars and trucks account for about a third of all the greenhouse gas production in the United States.
 California is seeking a waiver under the federal Clean Air Act to enact its own emissions standards with a goal of reducing greenhouse gas production from vehicles by 30 percent by 2016. California officials argue that affordable technology exists to make cars run cleaner and burn less fuel, and thus produce less carbon dioxide and other pollutants that may contribute to global warming.
 E.P.A. officials gave no indication how or when they would rule on California's petition. Another public hearing is scheduled for next week in Sacramento, and the agency is accepting public comment for several weeks after that.
 Officials from the 12 states have said they will sue if the E.P.A. does not grant the waiver by October. The agency has granted California some 50 such waivers since the first federal clean air laws were enacted in the 1960s, and California has long been at the forefront of air quality regulation. California applied for the current waiver in December 2005.
 Steven Douglas, director of environmental affairs for a consortium of auto manufacturers, said the California rules would be costly and reduce the types and sizes of vehicles available to consumers, arguments the industry has used to oppose new fuel-efficiency standards.
 Mr. Douglas said the industry supported improving mileage standards, but warned that forcing automakers to increase mileage would cost jobs, make cars less safe and harm the economy.
 He said California had not proven that its new regulations would actually help slow global warming. He urged regulators to reject the tough new California rules and move more gradually toward national standards on emissions and fuel economy. 
 ''In this light,'' Mr. Douglas said, ''a patchwork of state-level fuel economy regulations as is now proposed by California is not just unnecessary but actually counterproductive.''
 Numerous witnesses at the E.P.A. hearing on Tuesday rejected those arguments, saying they were reminiscent of claims made by the car companies over the years to try to delay or defeat various safety and environmental regulations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE EMISSIONS (92%); EMISSIONS (92%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (77%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (76%); FIRES (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); HISTORY (56%); PETITIONS (50%) Weather; Automobiles; Global Warming

ORGANIZATION: Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (79%) Jerry (Atty Gen) Brown; John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); EARTH (78%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



468 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Alcan Rejects A Hostile Bid From Alcoa

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, May 22 

 BODY:
The Canadian aluminum producer Alcan rejected a $27.4 billion hostile bid from a rival, Alcoa, on Tuesday, calling the offer inadequate. Alcan said that it was in talks with other companies and added that it was considering the possibility of turning the tables with a counterbid for Alcoa.
 Alcan said in a statement that its directors had unanimously concluded that the bid by Alcoa, which is based in Pittsburgh, did not reflect the Canadian company's full value or offer its shares a sufficient premium. 
Yves Fortier, Alcan's chairman, said that ''the company is evaluating all options in the interest of shareholder value.''
 When asked during an interview whether those options included Alcan reversing the situation through a hostile bid for Alcoa, Richard B. Evans, the president and chief executive, replied: ''All means 'all.' ''
 In a statement, Alcoa said it was ''reviewing Alcan's response and will provide a more in-depth response after we have had time to examine it further.''
 Mr. Evans declined to name which other companies were in negotiations with Alcan. But the mining companies BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and Companhia Vale do Rio Doce have all been named as potential buyers, as have several aluminum producers in Russia and China.
 While the idea of a counteroffer by Alcan for Alcoa -- often called a Pac-Man bid, after the video game in which characters try to gobble up opponents before being eaten themselves -- has been floated by analysts, most expect that Alcoa will simply enrich its offer. 
 Not all analysts, however, view Alcan's rejection as a ploy to bolster its takeover value.
 Carol Levenson, a debt analyst with Gimme Credit in New York, wrote in a note to debt holders after Tuesday's announcement that while another offer for Alcan was possible ''we think the company is more likely to attempt to remain independent.''
 Alcan and Alcoa held secret talks for almost two years before negotiations broke down late last year.
 ''Despite two years of approaches by Alcoa,'' Mr. Evans said in the Alcan statement, ''at no time was Alcan presented a compelling proposal -- either in terms of economics, structure or conditionality -- that was in the best interests of our shareholders.''
 Mr. Evans said that although Alcoa's chief executive, Alain J. P. Belda, told him last year that a hostile bid was his company's ''fallback position,'' he was nevertheless ''somewhat surprised'' when Alcoa took that step on May 7.
 ''We felt it would be somewhat risky for them,'' Mr. Evans said. ''Based on everything we had seen, it would be very difficult for them to execute.''
 The hostile offer, Mr. Evans said, did not vary substantially from the friendly proposal that Alcoa had made earlier. It was also, he added, no more appealing to Alcan. Alcoa's current bid, according to regulatory filings, includes $22 a share in cash and 0.9418 of an Alcoa common share for each Alcan share. 
 ''There are certain elements of the combination that do make industrial sense, as there would be with other companies,'' he said. One of Alcan's concerns, Mr. Evans said, was the possibility that any merger would have a difficult time with antitrust regulators in Canada, the United States and Europe. Combined, the two companies would have about $54 billion in sales in 2006 figures and would have produced 7.8 million metric tons of aluminum.
 While Alcoa has identified some assets it would shed, most in aerospace products, Mr. Evans contended that the company did not have a clear plan for dealing with antitrust issues.
 ''Any list that might be floated out for this asset or any asset is just a starting point,'' he said.
 Mr. Evans added that even though Alcan had a ''clear solution'' for competition issues surrounding its 2003 acquisition of the French aluminum producer Pichiney, approval still required months of talks.
 Another sticking point is headquarters locations of a merged company. Alcan is prominent in Canada and its home province of Quebec. As a result, Mr. Evans said that it insisted that Montreal act as the head office of a merged operation. Alcoa continues to propose that Montreal act as a joint head office with New York, where it has its executive offices.
 Alcan, which is slightly smaller than Alcoa, will probably encounter difficulties with the state of Pennsylvania if it attempts a reverse takeover. Alcoa did not opt out of a series of anti-takeover laws that were adopted by the state in 1990 to stem the loss of head offices from its cities. Because Alcoa is not based in Canada, its bid for Alcan must be approved by the Canadian government. While Investment Canada, the agency responsible for such reviews, does not publicly discuss its decisions, it is thought to have never turned down a merger.
 While word of the secret talks emerged only after Alcoa's bid, Mr. Evans said that the much stronger share price performance of Alcan compared with Alcoa over the last five years was an endorsement of his company's decision not to merge. From May 1999, when Mr. Belda became Alcoa's chief executive, to last February, when takeover speculation lifted share prices, Alcoa's stock rose by 3 percent. Alcan shares increased 48 percent. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard B. Evans is president and chief executive of Alcan. (Photo by Paul Chiasson/Canadian Press, via Associated Press)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (90%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DIVESTITURES (72%); MINES & MINING (66%) Aluminum; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (92%); RIO TINTO ALCAN INC (92%); BHP BILLITON PLC (82%); VALE SA (82%); RIO TINTO GROUP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Alcan Inc; Alcoa Inc

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (92%); AA (NYSE) (92%); BLT (LSE) (82%); BIBLT (JSE) (82%); BBL (NYSE) (82%); VALE3 (PAR) (82%); VALE3 (BOVESPA) (82%); VALE (NYSE) (82%); 6210 (HKSE) (82%); RIOS (BRU) (55%); RIO (NYSE) (55%); RIO (LSE) (55%); RIO (ASX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (92%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (92%); NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS331523 NONFERROUS METAL DIE-CASTING FOUNDRIES (92%); NAICS331315 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3353 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL (92%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (82%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (82%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (82%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (82%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (82%); NAICS212324 KAOLIN & BALL CLAY MINING (82%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (55%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (55%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (55%)

PERSON: ALAIN J P BELDA (58%) Richard B Evans; Yves Fortier; Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) CANADA (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



469 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Worth a Lot, But Are They Worth It?

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
When Institutional Investor's Alpha magazine released its annual list of the highest paid hedge fund managers last month, it allowed the rest of us to play an entertaining little parlor game: what could you buy if you made as much money as those guys?
 James Simons, a 69-year-old mathematician who was at the top of the list, earned $1.7 billion, which equaled the amount of money that the federal government spent last year running its vast network of national parks. Down at No. 3 on the list, Edward S. Lampert of Greenwich, Conn., the investor who owns a large chunk of Sears, made $1.3 billion, which, if you forget about taxes, would have allowed him to buy the entire economic output of Sierra Leone. We're talking about real money here.
 Today, Alpha magazine will release another big list, and this one offers a chance to answer another, arguably more important, question: Are these billionaire hedge fund managers really worth it? 
 The reason hedge funds are a license to print money is their fee structure. A typical fund charges a 2 percent management fee, which means that it keeps 2 cents of every dollar that it manages, regardless of performance. Mutual funds, on average, charge about 1 percent. 
 On top of the management fee, hedge funds also take a big cut -- usually at least 20 percent -- of any profits that exceed a predetermined benchmark. 
 So in a good year, a fund's managers bring in stunning amounts of money, and in a bad year, they still do very well. Some quick math shows why: 2 percent of a $5 billion portfolio, which was roughly the cutoff for making Alpha's list of the 100 largest funds, equals $100 million. A fund's managers get to take that fee every single year.
 Last year was actually a pretty tough year for the industry. Because hedge funds tend to make a lot of countercyclical bets -- thus the name -- they can often turn a profit even when the stock market falls. When it's rising broadly, though, many struggle to keep up. Last year, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumped 14 percent, while the average hedge fund returned less than 13 percent, after investment fees, according to Hedge Fund Research in Chicago. 
 But the men -- and they are all men -- who appear on Alpha's list of top earners don't manage average hedge funds. They manage the biggest funds in the world, the ones that are winning the Darwinian competition for capital, and many of them aren't having any trouble beating the market. One of the funds at Mr. Simons's firm, Renaissance Technologies, delivered a net return of 21 percent last year. The other returned 44 percent after fees. And Mr. Simons, who relies on a fantastically complex set of algorithms, doesn't charge ''2 and 20'' -- as the typical industry fees are called. He charges ''5 and 44'' -- a 5 percent management fee and 44 percent of profits -- yet he has still been doing very well by his investors for almost two decades. 
 I realize that a lot of people find 9- and 10-figure incomes to be inherently excessive. Or even immoral. From a strictly economic point of view, however, they are also perfectly rational. You cannot find anyone else who is providing the same returns as the best hedge fund managers at a lower price. If you don't like it, you don't have to give them your money. 
 (Even if you do like it, they probably won't take your money. In exchange for being lightly regulated, hedge funds are open only to wealthy investors and big institutions.)
 Thanks to their incredible performance, the biggest funds have grown far bigger in recent years. The 100 largest firms in the world managed $1 trillion at the end of last year, or 69 percent of all the assets in hedge funds, according to Alpha. At the end of 2003, the top 100 had less than $500 billion, or only 54 percent of total hedge fund investments. 
 ''The best performance is coming from the largest funds,'' said Christy Wood, who oversees equities investments for the California Public Employees' Retirement System, which, like a lot of pension funds, is moving more money into hedge funds.
 But there is an irony to this influx of money. It all but guarantees that hedge fund pay over the next few years won't be as closely tied to performance as it has been. The hundreds of millions of dollars that have flowed into hedge funds have made it all the harder for fund managers to find truly undervalued investments. The world is awash in capital.
 All that capital, of course, also translates into ever-greater management fees, regardless of a fund's performance. The flagship hedge fund at Goldman Sachs lost 6 percent last year, but it still brought in a nice stream of fees. Bridgewater Associates, which is based in Greenwich, has earned a net return of less than 4 percent in each of the last two years. Yet its founder, Raymond T. Dalio, made $350 million in 2006.
 ''When we have a bad year, we're essentially flat,'' Parag Shah, a Bridgewater executive, told me. ''And when we have a good year, we have a great year.''
 Goldman and Bridgewater may well bounce back, but the combination of extraordinary pay and ordinary performance is going to occur more and more in the coming years. 
 Outside of the highfliers on the Alpha list, it's already the norm. Since 2000, the average hedge fund hasn't done any better, after fees, than the market as a whole, according to research by David A. Hsieh, a finance professor at Duke. Still, even mediocre managers, after a lucky year or two, are able to attract gobs of capital and charge ''2 and 20.'' 
 So are today's hedge fund managers really worth it? Sure, but only if they deliver the sort of performance that Mr. Simons has, and very few will in the years ahead. More to the point, it's extremely difficult to know who the stars will be. 
 In all sorts of walks of life, people tend to think that the past is a better predictor of the future than it really is. That's why journeyman baseball players -- a Yankees pitcher named Carl Pavano comes to mind -- are able to sign huge contracts based on a single good season. It's also why so many investors chase returns.
 The genius of the world's hedge fund managers isn't only in how they invest their money. It also lies in having set up an industry that takes advantage of a timeless human trait. 
 6. RENAISSANCE TECHNOLOGIES CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: $26,00 Renaissance Equity Institutional Fund CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: $20,000 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +21% Medallion CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 6,000 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +44 7. OCH-ZIFF CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: $21,000 Och-Ziff Master CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 15,000 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +16% Och-Ziff Europe CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 3,500 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +22 Och-Ziff Asia CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 2,500 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +15 8. BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: $18,953 Equity Long-Short CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 10,914 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: n.a. Global Macro and Currency CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 6,618 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: n.a. Fixed-Income Long-Short CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 1,421 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: n.a. CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: 9. MAN INVESTMENTS CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: $18,800 Man AHL Diversified CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 2,530 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +6% Man AHL Alpha CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 397 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +7 Athena Guaranteed Futures CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 25 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +6
 10. ESL INVESTMENTS
 CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: $17,500 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +25%* *Alpha magazine estimates; all other figures voluntarily reported by the firms. (Source by Institutional Investor's Alpha magazine)(pg. C4) 

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Simons, the top-earning hedge fund manager last year. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times) Chart: ''Performance of Top Hedge Funds'' largest hedge fund FIRMS (IN CAPS) And Selected Funds 1. JPMORGAN CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: $33,087 JPMorgan Asset Management CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 17,300 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: n.a. Highbridge Capital Corp. CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 10,000 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +25%* 2. GOLDMAN SACHS CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: $32,531 Global Alpha fund CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 12,500 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: -6%* 3. BRIDGEWATER ASSOCIATES Pure Alpha Strategy CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: $30,210 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +3%* 4. D.E. SHAW GROUP CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: $27,300 Macro Strategies CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 9,400 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +18% Equity and Equity-Linked Strategies CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 6,100 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +17 Futures and Currency-Related Strategies CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: 1,300 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: +7 5. FARALLON CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CAPITAL, IN MILLIONS: $26,200 2006 RETURN AFTER FEES: n.a.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (87%); BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%) Stocks and Bonds; Hedge Funds; Ratings and Rating Systems

ORGANIZATION: Alpha (Magazine)

PERSON: EDDIE LAMPERT (79%) David Leonhardt; James Simons

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



470 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Food Safety Joins Issues at U.S.-China Talks

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 22 

 BODY:
Teams of cabinet members from China and the United States held a day of talks Tuesday to reduce economic tensions but ran into familiar disagreements over trade, currency issues and at least one new concern, the safety of Chinese food exports.
 In the wake of reports about poison-tainted toothpaste and pet food from China, administration officials said that both the agriculture secretary, Mike Johanns, and the secretary of health and human services, Michael O. Leavitt, raised the issue of food safety throughout the day. 
In a break in the talks, Carlos M. Gutierrez, the commerce secretary, told reporters, ''They know this is an issue that concerns us and concerns the American people.'' 
 Going further, Elaine L. Chao, the United States secretary of labor, said Mr. Johanns told the Chinese that the issue of safety of Chinese products ''strikes at the heart of trust'' between the countries. Ms. Chao said the Chinese responded by promising to strengthen regulatory agencies.
 The Chinese delegation leader, Wu Yi, a vice premier, opened her presentation with a veiled criticism of recent American legal challenges to China over what the United States asserts are export subsidies and piracy.
 ''We should not easily blame the other side for our own domestic problems,'' Ms. Wu said, as interpreted at the forum, which was open to the press for a while at the beginning. ''Confrontation does no good at all to problem-solving.''
 Ms. Wu said that efforts to ''politicize'' the Chinese-American relationship were ''absolutely unacceptable.''
 These were seen in the administration as code words intended as much for Congress as for the cabinet members in attendance. Administration officials say China continually expresses dismay at efforts in Congress to combat the trade deficit, saying that the moves are driven by politics, rather than being based on reason.
 Ms. Wu introduced into the discussions the idea that China could improve the atmosphere by buying more American goods, rather than by opening its own markets to American products, according to James L. Connaughton, chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality.
 He quoted her as saying that Chinese officials had gone to about 20 states in recent weeks and made billions of dollars in purchases to shore up American support for trade relations with China. Critics in Congress say such purchases will have no effects on their concerns, however.
 Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, said that the Chinese complaints were nothing new and that she and others sought to allay Chinese concerns that there was rising protectionist sentiment in Congress, but she also said she urged the Chinese not to ignore anxieties on Capitol Hill.
 ''Those issues are of particular concern to members of Congress,'' Ms. Schwab said she told the Chinese, adding that Congressional concerns, focused on loss of jobs from imports, are ''not necessarily a reflection of protectionism and anti-Chinese sentiment.''
 The meetings were the second session of what the Bush administration calls a ''strategic economic dialogue'' established last year by President Bush and President Hu Jintao of China. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has led the American side in the talks, in Beijing last December and in Washington this week.
 A senior administration official, briefing reporters at the end of the day under ground rules that he not be identified, said that Mr. Paulson told the Chinese that they needed to ''rebalance'' their economy by relying less on exports and more on consumer spending.
 He also said that the issue of China's intervention in currency markets to hold down the value of its currency, the yuan, had become a symbol of its slowness in adopting change. 
 China has allowed its currency to rise by a fraction of a percentage point in the last few days, apparently as a gesture to address American concerns that when the yuan is valued low against the dollar, exports are artificially cheap and imports artificially expensive. 
 Manufacturers, as well as Democratic leaders in Congress, are threatening to impose trade barriers or sanctions on Chinese goods if China does not let the value of its currency rise. The American trade deficit last year soared to $232 billion, a record. China accounts for about a third of the overall American trade deficit with the world.
 Congress is poised to enact one or more bills this year that would impose sanctions on China if it did not do more to open its economy to American goods and services and allow the yuan to appreciate.
 American officials said that they expected the talks this week would yield a package of measures aimed at opening China's economy to American goods and investments. Announcements are expected on expanded air routes for American cargo and passenger carriers and on the sale of energy technology to China. 
 Ms. Schwab, the administration's senior trade envoy, said she and others tried to explain to the Chinese that recent American legal actions against Chinese subsidies and protection of intellectual property were not intended to disrupt the Chinese-American economic relationship.
 She said she and Mr. Gutierrez took ''great pains'' to explain ''why our agencies made the decisions they did'' on subsidies and piracy. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wu Yi, a Chinese vice premier, and the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., in Washington yesterday. (Photo by Gerald Herbert/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FOOD SAFETY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ANIMAL FOODS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (72%); TRENDS (72%); PET FOODS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); COUNTERFEITING (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Currency; Food Contamination and Poisoning; Counterfeit Merchandise; Protectionism (Trade); Currency; Food Contamination and Poisoning

PERSON: WU YI (89%); MICHAEL O LEAVITT (79%); MIKE JOHANNS (79%); ELAINE CHAO (79%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (78%); HENRY PAULSON (78%); JAMES CONNAUGHTON (56%) Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush; Mike (Sec) Johanns; Michael O (Sec) Leavitt; Carlos M (Sec) Gutierrez; Elaine L (Sec) Chao; Wu Yi (Vice Premier); Susan C Schwab; Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%) China

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



471 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
 PUBLIC DATA SHOWED DRUG RISK -- A cardiologist found that GlaxoSmithKline's popular diabetes drug Avandia posed a heightened cardiac risk by analyzing the studies that the company voluntarily posted online. The finding is liking to spur efforts to require drug makers to disclose study results. [Page C1.] REHABBING HOME DEPOT -- Home Depot's annual meeting today is a chance for the chief executive, Frank Blake, to use his humble and low-key approach to distance himself from his predecessor, Robert L. Nardelli. Attendees are looking for change in another area, too: Home Depot's flagging performance. 
[C1.] ALCAN REJECTS ALCOA'S BID -- The Canadian aluminum producer Alcan not only rejected a $27.4 billion hostile bid from a rival, Alcoa, but it said it was considering the possibility of turning the tables with a counterbid for Alcoa. [C1.] RELEVANCE IN QUESTION -- The crisis over Paul D. Wolfowitz is over, but the World Bank and the other structures of the international economic architecture -- including the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization -- are now is buckling under the weight of globalization, trade disputes and the ambitions of rising economic powers. [C1.] TRADE TALKS WITH CHINA -- Teams of Cabinet members from China and the United States held a day of talks to reduce economic tensions but ran into familiar disagreements over trade, currency issues and at least one new concern, the safety of Chinese food exports. [C3.] FREMONT SELLS PROPERTY UNIT -- The Fremont General Corporation, a financial services company caught up in the subprime mortgage lending mess, has agreed to sell its commercial real estate unit for $1.9 billion and bring in new managers. The new management team will be led by Gerald J. Ford, above, who once ran Golden State Bancorp. Fremont will also receive $80 million for selling a minority stake in the remaining business to a group of investors led by Mr. Ford. [C3.] ACTIVISM WITHOUT LIMOUSINES -- Shareholder activism is beginning to take root in Europe. But the efforts at forcing change are not led by the likes of Carl C. Icahn or Kirk Kerkorian, but often by ordinary investors. [C5.] POLISHING AN INSURER'S IMAGE -- Marsh & McLennan, the giant insurance broker that was staggered in recent years by accusations of rigging bids and taking kickbacks from insurance companies, is trying to restore its image with an advertising campaign that urges readers to ''find the upside.'' Advertising. [C3.] INTEL IN DEAL ON MEMORY CHIPS -- The Intel Corporation announced that it would join with STMicroelectronics, a Swiss semiconductor maker, to form a new company to sell flash memory chips. [C3.] CBS BUYS A FINANCIAL WEB SITE -- CBS has bought Wallstrip, an online company whose Web site mixes finance with humor, to add to its daily financial news Web broadcast. The terms of the deal were not disclosed. [C8.] RESTAURANT OWNER IS SOLD -- OSI Restaurant Partners, owner of the Outback Steakhouse chain, agreed to a higher $3.1 billion takeover offer from a group led by Bain Capital Partners and Catterton Partners. The buyout group raised its bid 2.9 percent, to $41.15 a share, OSI said. OSI, based in Tampa, Fla., owns Outback, the largest steakhouse chain in the nation, as well as the Carrabba's, Bonefish and Lee Roy Selmon's restaurants. [C10.] MARKETS STALL -- Several new deals were announced, but Wall Street failed to gain much momentum as it waited for new economic data, leaving the markets little changed. [C8.] SAVANNAH'S GROWING DOWNTOWN -- A developer is proposing the largest expansion of the historic downtown in Savannah, Ga., since the grid of compact streets and squares was first designed in 1733. [C6.] NATION'S STRICTEST EMISSION LAWS -- Officials from California demanded that federal regulators allow the state to impose the strictest automobile and light truck emissions rules in the nation. [A19.] IMMIGRATION BILL SURVIVES -- A comprehensive immigration bill survived a significant test as the Senate voted to keep a provision that would let hundreds of thousands of temporary foreign workers enter the country each year. [A20.] DIG DEEPER FOR A SIRLOIN -- The cost of producing beef and the demand for it have risen so much that prices are soaring and the supply of top-quality beef has dropped. Contributing to the rising cost is the demand for ethanol and a harsh winter, which have caused the price of corn to rise about 60 percent in recent months. [F1.] ONE CHOICE FOR ACTION MOVIE FANS -- ''Live Free or Die Hard,'' which opens in June, will be the only straight-ahead, major studio action film set for the year's prime moviegoing weeks. Its studio, 20th Century Fox, is betting that the summer movie audience still has a taste for cinematic red meat. [E1.] SALLIE MAE'S CHIEF STEPS DOWN -- SLM, the student lender commonly known as Sallie Mae, said that its vice chairman and chief executive, Thomas J. Fitzpatrick, was resigning to pursue other interests and would be succeeded by the company's chief financial officer. [C2.] anheuser-Busch raises forecast The Anheuser-Busch Companies said that profit would rise more than forecast this year on higher sales of imported beers and fewer discounts of Bud Light and Michelob. [C8.] HOUSE PASSES MORTGAGE BILL -- Legislation to tighten federal oversight of the two biggest buyers of home mortgages, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, cleared the House. But the bill could lose the support of the Bush administration because of a provision trimming the authority of federal regulators. [C2.] ONLINE THE ENERGY CHALLENGE -- A series of articles examines how the world is, and is not, moving toward a more energy-efficient, environmentally benign future. The series is online at nytimes.com/energychallenge. WEEKEND BUSINESS -- In a podcast, reporters and editors from The Times's Sunday Business section offer perspective on the week in business and beyond. Subscription information is at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks share prices of OSI Restaurant Partners for the week 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); INSURANCE (88%); CARDIOLOGY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (73%); DIABETES (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); ELECTRONICS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TRADE DISPUTES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CURRENCIES (67%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (64%); COMPUTER CHIPS (62%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (62%); SEMICONDUCTORS (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); MEMORY CHIPS (60%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (60%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (54%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (84%); INTEL CORP (80%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (66%); GOLDEN STATE BANCORP INC (64%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (58%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%); STMICROELECTRONICS NV (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (84%); AA (NYSE) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (80%); MMC (NYSE) (58%); MHM (LSE) (58%); GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%); STM (PAR) (51%); STM (NYSE) (51%); STM (BIT) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (84%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (66%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: FRANK BLAKE (76%); GERALD J FORD (75%); CARL ICAHN (72%); BOB NARDELLI (56%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (91%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



472 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: The Market Marks Time Ahead of Economic Data

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street ended an erratic session yesterday little changed as investors, upbeat about the latest round of takeover activity, remained hesitant to take the market higher ahead of new economic data.
 Investors have viewed acquisitions as a sign that corporate executives are comfortable with the economy. However, stocks failed to gain much momentum as several deals were announced, including plans by the billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian to buy the Bellagio Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas from MGM Mirage.
''There's no real drivers out there, and what we're waiting for is some more economic data,'' said Todd Salamone, director of trading at Schaeffer's Investment Research in Cincinnati. ''We're right around the closing highs of 2000, so there is some hesitancy at those levels for the time being.'' 
 Some direction might come tomorrow, when the Commerce Department reports on durable goods for April. The report could offer insight into the health of consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of economic activity.
 With yesterday lacking major economic reports, Wall Street was watching talks between American and Chinese officials about trade and foreign exchange policy. Chinese stocks rose to a record high for a second consecutive day as investors there were encouraged by expectations for a stronger yuan and robust housing demand.
 The Dow Jones industrials fell 2.93 points, or 0.02 percent, to 13,539.95.
 Broader stock indexes were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.98 points, or 0.06 percent, to 1,524.12. 
 The Nasdaq composite index, which has lagged behind the other major indexes in recovering from Wall Street's prolonged slump early in the decade, rose 9.23 points, or 0.36 percent, to 2,588.02.
 Stock markets in other countries have also been gaining, particularly in China. The Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.9 percent to 4,110.38. The Shenzhen Composite Index climbed 1.4 percent to 1,198.41.
 Though Chinese stocks are now at highs, it was a plunge in the Shanghai market in late February that provoked worries worldwide about the global economy and valuation of share prices.
 In corporate news, MGM Mirage surged $17.03, or 27 percent, to $79.98, after Mr. Kerkorian said he expected to pursue ''financial restructuring transactions'' for the casino. His investment vehicle, the Tracinda Corporation, owns a 56 percent stake in MGM Mirage.
 Chevron said it would sell its 12 percent stake in the power producer Dynegy. The move is part of Chevron's push to shed unnecessary operations, and sent its shares down 65 cents to $82.18. Dynegy fell 34 cents, to $9.83.
 Fremont General agreed to sell its commercial real estate lending business, and some of its loan portfolio, for $1.9 billion to iStar Financial. Fremont has been dismantling its business because of troubles in the subprime mortgage sector. The company's shares rose $2.89, to $10.
 The price of the 10-year Treasury note fell 11/32, to 97 14/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.82 percent, from 4.78 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction for four-week bills: (000 omitted in dollar figures) Price: 99.618 High Rate: 4.900 Coupon Yield: 5.001 Low Rate: 4.850 Median Rate: 4.890 Total applied for: $51,874,832 Accepted: $25,055,816 Noncompetitive: $407,034 The four-week bills mature June 21, 2007. 
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); DIVESTITURES (69%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (60%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: TRACINDA CORP (83%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (74%); DYNEGY INC (51%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (74%); DYN (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (83%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (74%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%) NEVADA, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (90%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007



473 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing West: California: College Graduate Shortage

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
California's economy could sputter over the next two decades because not enough college-educated workers are moving in, and the state cannot graduate current residents fast enough, according to a new report. California needs to nearly triple the number of highly skilled immigrants who arrive every year from other states and countries. If it fails, it will not meet the 20-year benchmarks set by the California Department of Transportation in 2005, reported the Public Policy Institute of California, a nonpartisan research group. The state will need at least 8.3 million college-educated workers by 2025 to maintain its current growth rates. That is 3.2 million short of what it will have in 18 years if the state's immigration and graduation rates remain constant. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECONDARY SCHOOLS (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); GRADUATION RATES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



474 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Pirates And Sanctions

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: DONGGUAN, China 

 BODY:
This is a city you've probably never heard of, yet it has a population of 10 million people who fill your dressers and closets. By one count, 40 percent of the sports shoes sold in the U.S. come from Dongguan.
 Just one neighborhood within Dongguan, Dalang, has become the Sweater Capital of the World. Dalang makes more than 300 million sweaters a year, of which 200 million are exported to the U.S. 
Keep towns like this in mind when American protectionists demand sanctions, after the latest round of talks ending yesterday made little progress. Some irresponsible Democrats in Congress would have you believe that China's economic success is simply the result of currency manipulation, unfair regulations and pirating American movies.
 It's true that China's currency is seriously undervalued. But places like Dongguan have thrived largely because of values we like to think of as American: ingenuity, diligence, entrepreneurship and respect for markets.
 The people in Dalang, the Sweater Capital, used to be farmers, until a Hong Kong investor opened a sweater factory at the dawn of the 1980's. After a few years, the workers began to quit and open their own factories, and both the bosses and the staff work dizzyingly hard. One factory worker here in Guangdong Province told me that she works 12-hour shifts, seven days a week, 365 days a year, not even taking time off for Chinese New Year. She chooses to work these hours to gain a better life for her son. If protectionists want somebody to criticize for China's trade success, blame that woman and millions like her.
 Remember that China isn't like 1980s Japan, which had a sustained huge surplus with nearly everybody. China's global surplus has surged in the last five years, but traditionally its global trade position has been close to a balance, and it still has a trade deficit with many countries.
 China imports components, does the low-wage assembly, and then exports the finished products to the U.S. -- so the whole value appears in the Chinese trade surplus with the U.S., even though on average 65 percent of the value was imported into China. When a Chinese-made Barbie doll sells in the U.S. for $9.99, only 35 cents goes to China.
 Sure, China pirates movies and software -- but the U.S. was even worse at this stage of development (when we used to infuriate England by stealing its literary properties without paying royalties). Pirated DVDs are sold openly on the streets of Manhattan, while sellers in China can be far more creative. A couple of days ago, I dropped into a small DVD shop in Beijing to check its wares. Everything seemed legal.
 Then the two saleswomen asked if I wanted to see American movies -- and tugged at a bookshelf, which rolled forward on wheels. Behind was a door; one of the saleswomen whisked me into a secret room full of pirated DVDs. That's piracy -- but also capitalism at its harshest and hungriest. There are plenty of reasons to put pressure on China, including its imprisonment of journalists and its disgraceful role in supplying the weaponry used to commit genocide in Darfur. But whining about the efficiency of Chinese capitalism is beneath us.
 All that said, the Chinese development model is running out of steam.
 Labor shortages are growing and pushing up wage costs. Factories are having to spend more money to improve worker safety and curb pollution. The environment is such a disaster that 16 of the world's most polluted cities are now in China. 
 China will also be forced to appreciate its undervalued currency, further pushing up costs. The ''China price'' will no longer be the world's lowest, and millions of jobs making T-shirts and stuffed toys will move to lower-wage countries like Vietnam and Bangladesh.
 So if China is going to continue its historic rise, it will have to move up the technology ladder and shift to domestic consumption as its economic engine. Yet the share of consumption in China's economy has fallen significantly since 2000.
 So as one who has been profoundly optimistic about China for the last 25 years, I think it's time to sober up. President Hu Jintao is China's least visionary leader since Hua Guofeng 30 years ago, and China has the burden of unusually weak leadership as it navigates a transition to a new economic model as well as a political transition to a more open society.
 I'm betting China will pull it off, but I don't think the world appreciates the risks and challenges ahead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION SIZE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FILM (88%); CURRENCIES (74%); ROYALTIES (74%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (76%) GUANGDONG, CHINA (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



475 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 326 words

PERSON: Kenneth L. Sokoloff 

HEADLINE: Kenneth Sokoloff, 54, Economist

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
Kenneth L. Sokoloff, an economic historian who was a leading expert on the role the United States patent system played in technological and productivity advances in the 19th century, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 54. 
 The cause was liver cancer, said his father, Dr. Louis Sokoloff.
Mr. Sokoloff, an economics professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, found that in the early age of industrialization, the American patent system was uniquely structured to encourage technological advances by ordinary people. As a result, the country's productivity grew significantly. The vibrant market for patented technology in the late 19th century created a group of specialized inventors, like Thomas Edison, who generated a vast number of technological advances, Mr. Sokoloff said.
 In the 20th century, as capital markets changed and financing became more difficult for individuals to obtain, large companies increasingly took over the role of generating new technologies. 
 Mr. Sokoloff found that the present-day environment had reverted to the 19th-century situation, with individuals and small companies once again generating new technologies that they then sell to larger firms, said Naomi R. Lamoreaux, a professor of economics and history at U.C.L.A. who was co-author of several studies with Mr. Sokoloff.
 In one of his last papers, which he wrote with Ms. Lamoreaux and which is to be presented at a conference in early June, Mr. Sokoloff explored the rise and fall of Cleveland, once comparable to Silicon Valley.
 Mr. Sokoloff also spent years studying the comparative economic histories of Latin America and the United States.
 Kenneth Lee Sokoloff was born in Philadelphia. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1974 and his doctorate from Harvard in 1982.
 He joined the U.C.L.A. faculty in 1980.
 In addition to his father, Mr. Sokoloff is survived by his sister, Ann Sokoloff of Kensington, Md. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PATENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); WRITERS (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); LIVER DISEASE (57%); CANCER (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

CATEGORY: Economics

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



476 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: When They Say You Are a Spammer

BYLINE: By KAREN J. BANNAN

 BODY:
About a year ago, Scott Madlener, a marketing executive, e-mailed a client several times but his messages were not getting through. 
 ''It raised a red flag immediately,'' said Mr. Madlener, executive vice president for interactive strategies at the Performance Communications Group of Chicago. ''We asked our system administrator to look at what was happening, and he came back to me with some bad news: we had been blacklisted.''
Blacklisting is an annoyance for big companies, but one that a dedicated technology staff can eventually remedy. For many smaller businesses, on the other hand, having messages blocked or shuttled into a spam folder by an Internet service provider or e-mail administrator can mean lost revenue. 
 E-mail blacklisting was created as a way to help reduce spam. The Internet protocol addresses of suspected or known spammers are compiled into a list, which is often shared and eventually posted on industry sites like Spamhaus.org and SpamCop.net.
 But innocent companies like Mr. Madlener's are finding that even people who follow the rules and do not send unwanted e-mail can find themselves in a jam. In Mr. Madlener's case, the company shared its server with some of its clients, and one of them sent out e-mail that was flagged as spam. Mr. Madlener's company was guilty by association, as are many companies that use outside e-mail service providers that offer shared servers. 
 ''It happens a lot,'' said Shar VanBoskirk, senior analyst with Forrester Research. ''There's so much spam out there and it's so expensive to manage that even big I.S.P.'s simply can't handle the volume.''
 Several years ago, Gary Bevers, the current group publisher for National Petroleum News Magazine, created an e-mail newsletter for his previous employer and sent it out to a list of names he had bought from a reputable marketing company. Unfortunately, the list was old, and only 600 messages out of 10,000 made it through to the intended recipients. The rest were returned as invalid. Because so many e-mails bounced back as addressee unknown, his company's I.P. address was branded a spammer. It looked as though he had sent messages to random names and addresses even though he had bought what he thought was a solid permission-based list. 
 ''It was a simple weekly newsletter with advertising, and we had advertisers complaining that they weren't even getting the newsletter,'' Mr. Bevers said. 
 As Mr. Bevers and Mr. Madlener can attest, getting on a blacklist was easy but getting off was another matter. It can take time and perseverance to be unblocked, said Stefan Pollard, director for consulting services at the e-mail service provider EmailLabs, based in Menlo Park, Calif. 
 ''You have to be constantly reviewing and monitoring your bounce logs and looking for the messages that say you've been blocked. The messages will provide the name of the list that's blocked you and why,'' Mr. Pollard said. ''Then you have to go to that list that's blocking you and follow their directions about how to get off. It's going to take diligence and hard work.'' 
 For example, if a company is using a purchased list or an affiliate list -- an e-mail list provided by a marketer -- it will have to, at minimum, sever ties with the affiliate or provide the name and contact information for the list owner. If a company is working with its own list, it will have to provide proof of what is known as legitimate opt-ins, a record of how, when and where each person on the list signed up to receive e-mail messages from you. 
 Sometimes, a company is blocked because its e-mail server is set up incorrectly, leaving it vulnerable to hackers. In that case, the company will have to fix the problem before the Internet service provider or blacklist administrator will even listen to an appeal. 
 If a company is hacked and a spammer uses the company's e-mail server to send spam, the company will have to prove its server was hacked and show how the problem was repaired. All in all, technology specialists said, it can take several days to two or three weeks to get off a blacklist. 
 What can small businesses do to avoid blacklists altogether? That answer is not a simple one, either, Ms. VanBoskirk said. 
 ''There's no quick panacea, no check list of, 'Do these three things and you'll be set.' Even if there was, those three things would change as spammers get more aggressive,'' she said. 
 But she said a few precautions can reduce the chances of having a problem. First, when hiring an e-mail service provider or I.S.P., make sure it is a reputable one that is committed to eliminating spam. The company should use outbound spam filters, have stringent antispam policies in place and be willing to enforce them. The company should also have some sort of deliverability reporting in place so it can tell you how many of your messages get through and are opened by end users. Finally, if you can afford it, try to send e-mail from your own server. Using a shared e-mail server, as Mr. Madlener found out, can be risky. 
 You can also avoid problems by including a prominent opt-out link in every message you send so recipients do not feel that they must report your messages as spam to get off your list. 
 For a more active approach, you can try signing up with reputation services providers like LashBack (www.lashback.com ) and Habeas (www.habeas.com). These services assign a reputation score to e-mail senders, so that I.S.P.'s feel comfortable letting in e-mail messages from those with high scores. E-mail certification and accreditation services like Goodmail Systems (www.goodmailsystems.com) and Return Path's Sender Score Certified product (www.senderscorecertified.com) provide similar services. 
 But all of these strategies may just be stop-gap measures for many companies, Ms. VanBoskirk said. Mr. Madlener agreed. 
 ''There's not a lot anyone can do because people have the right to complain about e-mail at any time. It's sort of like getting a ticket in the city,'' he said. ''It's a nuisance and a problem, but it's very difficult to avoid.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: When Scott Madlener, a marketing executive at the Performance Communications Group of Chicago, learned that his company had been mistakenly blacklisted for sending e-mail spam, he knew it was bad news. (Photo by Joe Tabacca for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMAIL MARKETING (91%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (89%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (88%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (77%); SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (67%); PUBLISHING (62%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (53%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



477 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Science And Health: Carbon Dioxide Emissions Down

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
Emissions of carbon dioxide from fuel burned in the United States dropped 1.3 percent in 2006 compared with an all-time peak reached the year before, according to preliminary data from the Energy Department. The United States remains the leading source of the carbon dioxide, the main emission linked to global warming. The White House quickly hailed the downturn, even in the face of economic growth, as evidence that President Bush's policies for slowing growth in emissions without a mandatory cap were working. Some scientists and private environmental groups noted that the cause, according to the government, was mainly moderate weather and high prices for oil, natural gas and electricity. Over all, emissions were up 17.9 percent since 1990. ANDREW C. REVKIN 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (88%); CLIMATOLOGY (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



478 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1654 words

HEADLINE: Snubbed by U.S., China Finds New Space Partners

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, May 23 

 BODY:
For years, China has chafed at efforts by the United States to exclude it from full membership in the world's elite space club. So lately China seems to have hit on a solution: create a new club.
 Beijing is trying to position itself as a space benefactor to the developing world -- the same countries, in some cases, whose natural resources China covets here on earth. The latest and most prominent example came last week when China launched a communications satellite for Nigeria, a major oil producer, in a project that serves as a tidy case study of how space has become another arena where China is trying to exert its soft power.
 Not only did China design, build and launch the satellite for Nigeria, but it also provided a huge loan to help pay the bill. China has also signed a satellite contract with another big oil supplier, Venezuela. It is developing an earth observation satellite system with Bangladesh, Indonesia, Iran, Mongolia, Pakistan, Peru and Thailand. And it has organized a satellite association in Asia. 
 ''China is starting to market and sell this technology to developing countries that need it,'' said Shen Dingli, a professor in international relations at Fudan University in Shanghai. Of the Nigeria deal, Mr. Shen added: ''It gives substance to Sino-African relations. Not only does China buy raw materials, but also we sell some things.''
 For China, the strategy is a blend of self-interest, broader diplomacy and, from a business standpoint, an effective way to break into the satellite market. Satellites have become status symbols and technological necessities for many countries that want an ownership stake in the digital world dominated by the West, analysts say. 
 ''There's clearly a sense that countries like Nigeria want to have a stronger presence in space,'' said Peter J. Brown, a journalist who specializes in satellite technology and writes frequently about the satellite market in Asia. ''As you look around the map, more and more countries are moving to get satellites up.''
 China's more grandiose space goals, which include building a Mars probe and, eventually, putting an astronaut on the moon, are based on an American blueprint in which space exploration enhances national prestige and advances technological development. But Beijing also is focused on competing in the $100 billion commercial satellite industry.
 In recent years, China has managed to attract customers with its less expensive satellite launching services. Yet it had never demonstrated the technical expertise to compete for international contracts to build satellites.
 The Nigeria deal has changed that. Chinese engineers designed and constructed the geostationary communications satellite, called the Nigcomsat-1. A state-owned aerospace company, Great Wall Industry Corporation, will monitor the satellite from a ground station in northwestern China. It will also train Nigerian engineers to operate a tracking station in Abuja, their national capital. 
 Last week, a day after the launching, Ahmed Rufai, the Nigerian project manager for the satellite, was exultant as he paused between appointments at his Beijing hotel. Nigeria may be rich in oil, he said, but it lacks many of the basic building blocks of a modern, information-based economy. 
 ''We want to be part of the digital economy,'' Mr. Rufai said, noting that Africa suffers more than any other continent from the so-called digital divide. ''We are trying to diversify the economic base of the country.''
 Mr. Rufai predicted that the satellite would pay for itself within seven years as Nigeria sold bandwidth to commercial users. But he also predicted major improvements for Nigeria itself: ''distance learning'' educational programs for remote rural areas; online public access to government records; a video monitoring system of remote oil pipelines to allow quicker responses to spills; and an online banking system.
 Nigeria is a risky customer for any satellite manufacturer. It is consistently rated one of the most corrupt nations, and at least one Western aerospace company has become embroiled in business disputes there. ''Business ventures with Nigeria have been difficult, to say the least,'' said Roger Rusch, president of TelAstra, a satellite communications consulting firm in California.
 Nigeria put the project out for bidding in April 2004. Mr. Rufai said that 21 bids had arrived from major aerospace companies but that nearly all of them failed to meet a key requirement: a significant financial package.
 Mr. Rufai said the Western companies saw Nigeria as a major gamble. ''Their response was very cool,'' he said of one financial institution approached about backing the deal. ''They said, 'Oh, Nigeria. Don't touch it.' '' 
 China was not so cautious. With the satellite priced at roughly $300 million, the state-owned Export-Import Bank of China, or China ExIm, granted $200 million in preferential buyer's credits to Nigeria. The bank often provides the hard currency for China's soft power aspirations: In Africa, China ExIm has handed out more than $7 billion in loans in recent years, according to one study.
 ''They were the only ones who stated in concrete terms that they would be able to support the project,'' Mr. Rufai said. Quality remained a concern. Last year, China suffered a major setback with the failure of the Sinosat-2. It was the most sophisticated satellite ever made in China, and it suffered a systems breakdown on its first launching. The Nigerian satellite was delayed for three months so that it could be retrofitted. 
 Joan Johnson-Freese, chairwoman of the Department of National Security Studies at the Naval War College, said China still trailed major aerospace companies in the quality and sophistication of its satellites, which is one reason it is marketing to developing countries. But, she added, the strategy was working on multiple levels.
 ''They want to play a leadership role for developing countries that want to get into space,'' Dr. Johnson-Freese said in an interview earlier this year. ''It's just such a win-win for them. They are making political connections, it helps them with oil deals and they bring in hard currency to feed back into their own program to make them even more commercially competitive.''
 Satellites also are becoming vital to Beijing's domestic development plans. In the next several years, China could launch as many as 100 satellites to help deliver television to rural areas, create a digital navigational network, facilitate scientific research and improve mapping and weather monitoring. Research centers on microsatellites have opened in Beijing, Shanghai and Harbin, and a new launching center is under construction in Hainan Province.
 But China's focus on satellites has also brought suspicions, particularly from the United States, since most satellites are ''dual use'' technologies, capable of civilian and military applications. Currently, China is overhauling its military in a modernization drive focused, in part, on developing the capacity to fight a ''high tech'' war. 
 Analysts say China's determination to develop its own equivalent to the Global Positioning System, or G.P.S., is partly because such a system would be critical for military operations if a war were to erupt over Taiwan. 
 Most alarmingly to Western countries, China conducted an antisatellite test in January by firing a missile into space, destroying one of its own orbiting satellites and scattering a trail of dangerous debris despite its oft-stated opposition to the use of weapons in space. Four months later, Washington is still trying to parse China's motivations, while China has offered little explanation.
 Space relations between the powers were already frosty. Washington, responding to scandals over stolen technology, has tried for nearly a decade to isolate the Chinese space program through export restrictions that prohibit the use of American space technology on satellites launched in China. Washington also has prevented China from participating in the International Space Station and, in some cases, stopped Chinese scientists from attending space conferences in America.
 Michael D. Griffin, NASA's administrator, did signal a thaw in relations when he visited China last fall. But critics say the American strategy has backfired. A recent critique of the Bush administration's space policy blamed Washington for alienating space allies with a ''go it alone'' philosophy. It also blamed the export restrictions for damaging American competitiveness and helping foreign competitors like China gain an advantage in the commercial market.
 China, meanwhile, eyes the United States warily. Earlier this year, Eric Hagt, director of the China program for the World Security Institute, testified in Washington that China's increasing investment in space has made it feel more vulnerable at a time when the United States is advocating missile defense programs in the name of protecting against terrorist states. 
 China believes the United States is determined to dominate space, even as China's own national interests are increasingly tied to space, Mr. Hagt said. ''The United States needs to come to grips with the reality that China will demand more 'strategic room' in space,'' he told the federal U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. 
 The United States is also realizing that many parts of the world are happy to give China that space. When the Nigerian satellite was launched, the blastoff was televised live to Nigeria, the Chinese news media reported. Nigerian newspapers proclaimed the satellite as a seminal moment in the country's efforts to modernize its economy.
 Mr. Rufai, the Nigerian project manager, said he was certain that other developing countries had noticed how China had designed, built, launched and financed the satellite. 
 ''It's a model that people will try to replicate,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: China designed, built and helped finance a communications satellite for Nigeria. It was launched from Sichuan Province in China on May 14. (Photo by Li Gang/Xinhua, via Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 The successful launching of Nigcomsat-1, a communications satellite for Nigeria, was celebrated at the launching center in Xichang, China. (Photo by Li Gang/Xinhua, via Newscom)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); SPACECRAFT (89%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); CASE STUDIES (75%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); WRITERS (62%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); MARS (79%) CHINA (99%); NIGERIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); THAILAND (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



479 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; A Japanese Export: Talent; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Technologists See Brighter Prospects in Other Parts of Asia

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: HSINCHU, Taiwan 

 BODY:
One of the hottest exports from Japan these days isn't video games or eco-friendly cars. 
 It is engineers.
Japan's once vaunted electronics industry has downsized to survive global competition, and is inadvertently setting off a brain drain. Thousands of Japanese engineers and other industry professionals have gone to Taiwan, South Korea and China to seek work at aggressive, fast-growing companies that want to use Japanese technological expertise.
 One such explorer is Heiji Kobayashi, a 41-year-old semiconductor engineer, whose career hit a dead end when his employer, Mitsubishi Electric, spun off its memory-chip business a few years ago. With job prospects bleak in Japan, he turned to Taiwan's booming chip industry, where he became a popular commodity.
 Last month, he began a new job overseeing the design of factory production lines at Powerchip Semiconductor, a memory-chip maker in this suburban city just south of Taipei. As a deputy director, he gets stock options (rare in Japan) and a secretary, and he is climbing the top rungs of management at the company, which has 6,500 employees. 
 ''My skills are in far higher demand here,'' said Mr. Kobayashi, who once worked in Taiwan for Mitsubishi Electric. Such employment mobility was once unthinkable in highly insular Japan, where until recently, workers virtually married into their company and kept their jobs for life, and the strength of its electronics industry was a source of national pride. 
 However, the recent export of job seekers is a sign of just how much Japan has changed during a decade of increased competition, corporate belt-tightening and the end of lifetime job guarantees. This harsher new world has forced Japan's famously conservative salarymen to become more aggressive in their job choices, and to view their careers as something for their own benefit and not simply their companies', employment experts say.
 This shift in mindset also underscores how Japan's long-closed economy is finally integrating with that of its neighbors. China has already replaced the United States as Japan's biggest trading partner, and many Japanese now see their nation's and their own personal future as linked to Asia's red-hot economies.
 ''Salarymen are taking bigger risks,'' said Mitsuhide Shiraki, a professor of economics at Waseda University in Tokyo. ''They're making a logical decision to work in Asia, where they are being better rewarded than in Japan.'' The trend has set off some hand-wringing in Japan, where the government fears the loss of technology to Asian rivals. Some Japanese companies are also complaining that they are having trouble finding enough talented engineers at home, especially as fewer young Japanese are now entering the field.
 No one knows for sure how many Japanese have left, since the outflow began in earnest less than five years ago. However, employment agencies in Tokyo have reported a surge in inquiries by middle-age Japanese professionals seeking work abroad. 
 There has also been a growing number of retired engineers wanting to go to less-developed economies where their skills are still highly valued, allowing them to pursue second careers late in life.
 ''In Asia, we can keep contributing to society,'' said Kazumitsu Nakamura, 64, a former engineer for Hitachi who quit to go to Taiwan, and was recently hired by a Hitachi subsidiary to train Taiwanese employees. ''In Japan, we would just be collecting pensions.''
 Taiwan was one of the first to start courting Japanese professionals, with at least 2,500 moving here in recent years, the Taiwanese government says.
 Taiwanese companies have been keen to gain access to Japan's leading technology in areas like electronics, both to catch up with Japanese front-runners like Sony and to stay ahead of fast-gaining Chinese competitors.
 More recently, however, China and Southeast Asian countries like Singapore have also begun hiring Japanese en masse to acquire their know- how, recruiting agencies say.
 ''This is a new era,'' said Tomoko Hata, managing director of Pasona Global, a Tokyo-based recruiting agency that specializes in finding jobs overseas for Japanese. ''The number of Japanese working abroad is only going to keep growing.'' 
 The Japanese migrants are finding themselves welcomed with open arms and generous pay packages. The Taiwan government says it has spent $20 million a year since 2003 to recruit foreign engineers, including Japanese, in key industries like semiconductors and flat-panel displays. It has held annual job fairs in Japanese cities like Tokyo and Osaka, and offers subsidies to Taiwan companies to help pay moving costs and the higher salaries that Japanese expect. To avoid angering Tokyo, Taiwan officials say that they direct their efforts at older Japanese engineers nearing retirement age.
 ''We need experienced engineers, and we need them quickly,'' said Lin Ferng-ching, the cabinet minister in charge of technology policy in Taiwan. ''Japanese engineers are very well trained, and have good attitudes toward their work.''
 Larger Taiwanese companies have offered annual pay packages topping $1 million for candidates in prized technological fields, according to some Japanese engineers. Such a large number of Japanese has moved to Taiwan that some cities are building or planning Japanese-language schools for the engineers' children.
 In Hsinchu, a subeconomy has sprung up to serve the rising number of Japanese, including izakaya (pub-style restaurants), karaoke bars and dubious-looking massage parlors with names like Tokyo Town.
 Japan's trade ministry is trying to stem the outflow of engineers by persuading Japanese companies to offer better pay and more frequent promotions. It has also reminded companies of other alternatives, like laws that forbid former employees from leaking corporate secrets to competitors. Asian diplomats have also said that Japanese officials have complained to them about their efforts to lure Japanese engineers.
 ''The national government cannot stop these people from going overseas,'' said Nobuhiro Komoto, an official in the Japanese trade ministry's manufacturing policy section. ''We're helping companies think of their own ways to protect their technological know-how.''
 While many Japanese engineers say that they have been offered potential jobs by Asian companies, others say that they have looked for work in Asia in hopes of finding something more promising or stimulating.
 Pasona Global, the employment agency, said 4,930 Japanese registered last year for job searches in other Asian countries, twice the number five years ago. 
 Almost every Japanese with technology-related experience attracts job offers, Ms. Hata said. The largest number of offers are from companies in China, she said, but those with the most coveted skills tended to be hired by companies in Taiwan, which is rushing to close the technological gap with Japan.
 Hiroshi Itabashi was an engineer with more than 20 years of experience at a midsize Japanese television maker when he got an unexpected phone call in 1999 from Delta Electronics, a fast-growing Taiwanese electronic components company. Delta wanted to start producing TV screens and asked Mr. Itabashi to help set up their operation.
 Three interviews later, including one with a Delta executive who flew to Tokyo to have lunch with him on a Saturday, Mr. Itabashi decided to make the jump.
 ''They gave me this exciting opportunity to build a whole new business from scratch,'' said Mr. Itabashi, 56, who asked that his former Japanese employer not be named. ''This is something you can't do in Japan. These days, Japanese companies always seem to be closing down operations, not starting new ones.''
 Mr. Itabashi said that his friends were puzzled at first about his moving to a company they had never heard of. But now, they ask him for help finding jobs overseas for themselves. To lure Japanese engineers and their families to Taiwan, a government-run industrial park for technology companies in the southern city of Tainan is building a Japanese-language school. A similar technology park in Hsinchu plans to add a Japanese school and a Japanese restaurant. 
 ''Companies in the park are asking us to do more for the Japanese,'' said the director of the Hsinchu Science Park, Huang Der-ray. Though the benefits are great, Japanese going abroad say they sometimes struggle to adapt to vastly different corporate cultures. For Tatsuo Okamoto, a 51-year-old semiconductor engineer, the biggest change was the speed in decision-making at the Taiwanese company, Winbond Electronics, which hired him away from the Tokyo-based chip maker Renesas Technology two years ago.
 Dr. Okamoto recalled one instance when a 15-minute chat in the hallway with Winbond's president was enough to win immediate approval to purchase millions of dollars worth of factory equipment. The same decision in Japan would have taken days of committee meetings, he said.
 Dr. Okamoto said the experience opened his eyes to the problems that were hobbling the competitiveness of Japan's electronics industry.
 ''Joining a Taiwanese company was a high-risk, high-return decision,'' Mr. Okamoto said. ''But staying in Japan had become a high-risk, low-return proposition.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kazumitsu Nakamura, right, in a sterile lab, is a former engineer for Hitachi who quit to go to Taiwan, where he joined a Hitachi subsidiary. (Photo by Chao-Yang Chan for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Powerchip Semiconductor in Hsinchu, near Taipei, hired a former engineer from Mitsubishi last month and gave him stock options. (Photo by Powerchip Semiconductor, via Bloomberg News)(pg. C5) Chart: ''Help Wanted, Away From Japan'' Taiwan was one of the first countries to start courting Japanese professionals, but other Asian countries like Singapore and China have begun hiring them en masse. Pasona Global specializes in foreign jobs for Japanese. Number of job postings at Pasona Global seeking Japanese candidates Posted by companies based in: Graph tracks number of job postings from 2002 to 2006. Taiwan '02: 67 '06: 68 Singapore '02: 54 '06: 355 China '02: 157 '06: 842 Years ended in August Japanese who registered with Pasona Global to find jobs in Asian countries outside Japan Graph tracks number of Japanese who registered with Pasona Global to find jobs in Asian countries outside Japan since 2002. '02: 2,637 '07: 4,930 Ended March (Source by Pasona Global)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (92%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (77%); TRENDS (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (75%); MEMORY CHIPS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); SUBURBS (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (99%); TAIWAN (97%); ASIA (96%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



480 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 5; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: Love, Money and Clothes

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON; Additional reporting by Pascale Bonnefoy in Santiago, Chile.

 BODY:
WHO is Jorge Yarur Bascunan and what does he want with Madonna's bra?
 And Margot Fonteyn's tutu?
And some of the most coveted designs of Paul Poiret, the early-20th-century couturier who is currently the subject of an exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art?
 Such curious questions have become a common, and sometimes frustrating, refrain among the world's foremost collectors of couture and historic costume as they have been outbid, outmaneuvered or otherwise undone by the deep pockets of Jorge Yarur, a 46-year-old scion of a wealthy family who is building a world-class fashion museum in Santiago, Chile, from scratch.
 ''Some of the most glamorous pieces that have come on the market recently have been driven up by Jorge to prices that seemed unreasonable,'' said Harold Koda, chief curator of the Costume Institute at the Met. 
 On occasion, he said, Mr. Yarur had outbid what the Met was willing to pay.
 Mr. Yarur's Museo de la Moda, set inside his family's elaborately reconditioned 1962 Modernist glass mansion, has become an unexpected player in a growing field of international museums now investing in fashion collections. 
 Over the last decade, the privately funded museum, opening to the public on May 29, has acquired more than 8,000 garments. They represent an eclectic, if not encyclopedic, range of work from the exquisitely rare (1860's Charles Frederick Worth; 1930's Vionnet) to the deliciously campy (Nolan Miller's wardrobe for Joan Collins on ''Dynasty''). In the process, Mr. Yarur's exuberance has sometimes driven prices for rare examples of 20th-century couture to levels at which institutional players say they cannot compete.
 Pamela Parmal, the fashion curator of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, one of several American institutions that have expanded their fashion collections in recent years, has also noted Mr. Yarur's arrival on the curatorial stage with detectable envy. 
 ''Our Chilean friend has had a real impact on the market,'' Ms. Parmal said. ''He has a very good eye, and he only goes for the best. And he does what he has to do to acquire it.''
 Mr. Yarur, in a telephone interview, said that he had not intended to create such a stir and that some of his earliest acquisitions, may have seemed extreme, reflecting a lack of experience. After the deaths of his parents in the '90s, Mr. Yarur, an only son, was inspired, he said, to transform the familial home into a museum. He enlisted experts to build a state-of-the-art storage facility and a reference center containing 15,000 fashion publications and sketches underneath the house. An indoor swimming pool was remade into a two-story room for exhibitions; the garage became a coffee shop. ''Emotionally, I felt like I didn't want to live there, but I didn't want to sell it either,'' he said. ''I kept all of my parents' things.'' 
 Andrew Bolton, a Costume Institute curator, toured the museum last week and described it as a poetic experience, citing the conversion of Mr. Yarur's father's bedroom, ''which shows an enormous ball gown by Galliano from Dior's autumn/winter 2002 haute couture collection splayed out on the bed, like a drunken, but very elegant socialite.'' Mr. Bolton said he found himself coveting many pieces, including a sublime Balenciaga pink silk-taffeta gown from the late '50s.
 Ignacio Perez Cotapos, the director of ED, a Chilean decorating magazine, and once a classmate of Mr. Yarur, whom he called by his nickname, Toto, said that Mr. Yarur's family left him an enormous fortune and that when he had started sorting their clothing, he was inspired to build upon that with acquisitions. Mr. Bolton of the Met said he was touched by Mr. Yarur's obvious devotion to his mother, Raquel Bascunan Cugnoni, whose image, with remarkable physical similarities to Rita Hayworth, is shown at the museum in galleries and videos.
 ''Not unlike Dior, Jorge's mother was the catalyst for his love of fashion,'' Mr. Bolton said. ''She's the museum's muse.''
 That a private investor could have such an effect on the valuation of fashion memorabilia has been a surprising development for curators accustomed to dealing with a subject once ranked in the backwaters of museum hierarchy. There is no question that fashion's popularity as a form of historic narrative -- and its ability to draw crowds to museums -- has helped change that perception. The Met's willingness to display an increasing number of fashion shows outside the traditional confines of its basement-level costume galleries reflects this. So does its teeth in making recent acquisitions. 
 Likewise, other institutions are now competing for important works of fashion, including the de Young Museum in San Francisco, the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles and new museums dedicated to fashion in Berlin and Antwerp, Belgium. Corporate entities, as well, recognize the importance of documenting the history of their own franchises -- all resulting in a frenzied market for historic fashion. Some examples:
 At a Christie's auction in London in December, the house of Givenchy paid $811,800 for a little black dress created by Hubert de Givenchy for Audrey Hepburn in ''Breakfast at Tiffany's.''
 The Victoria & Albert in London bought a rare 1954 Christian Dior ensemble known as the Zemire for about $5,100 at an auction in Paris last year; it will be the centerpiece of its ''Golden Age of Couture'' exhibition planned for September.
 The Museum of Arts & Design in New York is expected to announce today that it has received a $2 million grant from the Tiffany & Company Foundation to establish a permanent gallery for contemporary jewelry in its new home on Columbus Circle.
 The Costume Institute's Poiret exhibition, meanwhile, was predicated on its purchase at a May 2005 auction in Paris of 20 pieces of the once-lost wardrobe of Denise Poiret, the designer's wife and muse, spending an estimated $581,000, not including the auctioneer's commissions. (The Met would not confirm its budget, but an estimate can be deduced by comparing the Poiret catalog with auction sale prices that are publicly available.) Among its purchases was a 1911 coat made with a woodblock-printed fabric designed by Raoul Dufy, for which the Met paid more than $90,000. In the early '80s, the Fashion Institute of Technology bought one of the most important Poiret designs, a sorbet-colored gown, for $6,000.
 The sale of the nearly 600 Poiret designs, considered by curators as a seminal event because of their provenance, totaled $2.4 million. This included record prices for a couture garment at auction ($168,500 for a 1914 ivory silk coat) and for shoes ($52,370 for a pair made for Denise Poiret in 1924 by Perugia), both Costume Institute purchases. Several French museums also bought multiple pieces, but one of the most competitive bidders, according to the curators, was Mr. Yarur of Chile, whose purchases included a 1913 dinner jacket for $60,830.
 Louis Webre, the vice president for marketing and media at Doyle New York, said Mr. Yarur has outbid any number of institutional collectors for works sold through that auction house as well, but he would not disclose specific purchases other than to note that Mr. Yarur was ''among the most discerning of our clients in terms of quality.'' 
 Some prices, however, can be gleaned by comparing Mr. Yarur's holdings to auction results that are public record. From the Margot Fonteyn sale at Christie's, Mr. Yarur paid $94,800 for the tutu Leslie Hurry designed for a performance of ''Swan Lake.'' In 2001, he paid $21,150 for one of theconical bras Jean Paul Gaultier designed for Madonna's ''Blonde Ambition'' tour.
 It was Mr. Yarur's grandfather Juan Yarur Lolas who established a string of textile companies and cotton mills in South America and in 1937 founded the BCI Bank in Santiago, which is now one of the country's largest and remains in the control of his descendants.
 ''It is an extraordinary combination of a lot of money with the best standards of quality,'' Mr. Perez said of his friend. ''He is very refined and a perfectionist. He has done everything with extreme care and quality." 
 Institutions that don't have that kind of money have had to be more creative in building collections and public support. The Fine Arts in Boston, for example, was able to add some remarkable contemporary couture to its holdings as a result of its fall show on that season's Paris collections -- Azzedine Alaia and Christian Lacroix made gifts of several pieces in the show. 
 Later this year, Ms. Parmal is planning an exhibition that places shoes throughout the museum as they relate to various periods -- Miu Miu rococo-inspired wedges with 18th-century furniture; athletic shoes from the Red Sox and Celtics next to ancient Greek pottery painted with sports motifs.
 Historic costume has not yet experienced the inflation that has spurred other parts of the art market, Mr. Koda said, but the Poiret auction made one thing abundantly clear.
 ''It's not only one entity, in Chile, that has made this change,'' he said. ''A number of institutions have built up a war chest for important acquisitions. In the field, you have this incredible energy focused on dress, and this sounds crass, but in a way, it's really enlivened the marketplace.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: SHOPPING SPREE -- Jorge Yarur Bascunan in front of his new clothing museum in Chile. Holdings include a 1967 Yves Saint Laurent minidress and Madonna's bra. (Photos by Lorenzo Moscia/archivolatino/Redux, left and inset
Gill Allen/Associated Press)(pg. G1)
 WARDROBE -- At El Museo de la Moda, styles from the 1930s, above, coexist with minidresses from the 1960s, right. The collection includes clothing and images of Jorge Yarur's relatives (top right), who inspired his love of couture. There is also a basement reference library for books and fashion publications. (Photographs by Lorenzo Moscia/archivolatino/Redux)(pg. G8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); HAUTE COUTURE (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CHILE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



481 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Dance Thrives Precariously In New York

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA LA ROCCO

 BODY:
In sheer numbers New York City is without question ''the center for modern contemporary dance in America,'' according to a report being released today by the service organization Dance/NYC. But the report also highlights how fragile that status is. 
 The 2006 census of dance makers -- 449 respondents, including dance companies, collectives and independent choreographers -- provides what Dance/NYC is calling the first statistically accurate numbers on dance makers in the five boroughs, although some respondents chose not to answer certain questions.
For those with knowledge of New York dance, the findings include few surprises. They confirm that the city is America's busiest dance center, with an estimated 1,000 to 1,200 ''dance-making entities'' and from 4,000 to 5,000 dancers whose local performances and tours drew audiences estimated at almost 2.5 million last year. The activity outpaces that of competing cities like San Francisco, Washington and Chicago.
 The survey also depicts an economically starved art form in which few practitioners are adequately compensated, health insurance is rare, and the effort to find rehearsal space is increasingly Herculean. Among the especially grim findings, 58 percent of respondents say they have no paid staff, with just 37 of the 310 who responded to the question claiming dancers as salaried employees and only 18 of 294 respondents owning rehearsal space.
 The 52-page report led by John Munger, director of research for Dance/NYC's parent organization, Dance/USA, is a companion to Dance/NYC's study three years ago charting the economic activity of dance in the city.
 ''In essence this is putting the human face to the sets of numbers that the economic impact study was all about,'' said Robert Yesselman, the Dance/NYC director.
 In modern dance ''all the people I know struggle to make ends meet,'' said Kenneth Tabachnick, the general manager of New York City Ballet and a lighting designer for dance.
 Of the 449 respondents only 15 have operating budgets in excess of $1 million with 18 others having budgets between $500,000 and $999,999. Most have budgets below $25,000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); DANCERS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BALLET (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DANCE/USA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); BIHAR, INDIA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



482 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Currency's Rise Stokes Concern in India

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, May 23 

 BODY:
Concerned that the rising value of the Indian rupee is threatening to limit the country's economic growth, especially in the lucrative outsourcing industry, monetary policy experts here have started putting pressure on the Reserve Bank of India to stem the rupee's rise.
 So far the central bank has taken no action, and some critics say it is also under pressure to keep inflation down. 
''In the past, the R.B.I. intervened in the currency markets,'' said Manika Premsingh, economist with Edelweiss Capital in Mumbai, referring to the bank by its initials. But recently the bank ''seems to have gone through a policy change and is now allowing the rupee to appreciate,'' she said.
 The rupee has climbed 9 percent against the United States dollar since the beginning of the year, sharply in April. On Wednesday, it reached a nine-year high of 40.58 to the dollar. 
 The currency's value may be affecting India's trade balance, according to preliminary reports. Merchandise exports grew at a slower-than-expected 8.8 percent in March, according to Commerce Ministry data. The trade deficit grew 38 percent during the month. 
 ''India is just beginning to gain competitiveness, and exports had been doing very well,'' said Ramgopal Agarwala, a former World Bank economist and senior adviser to the policy research organization RIS here. The rupee's rise has been a ''negative shock that is very unwise.''
 A strong rupee may stifle India's growing manufacturing industries, which are trying to compete with those of China, and threaten one of the pillars of India's success -- outsourcing. Wages in India have risen as much as 25 percent a year in some sectors, as demand for skilled professionals starts to outstrip supply.
 Mr. Agarwala and others say that the bank has been allowing the rupee to rise in order to control domestic inflation, which remains above its target of 5 percent, even though the benchmark interest rate is at a five-year high. 
 Consumers are feeling the pinch as costs rise for staples like onions and lentils. Rural and lower-income Indians, who have benefited least from the country's economic growth, are the most affected -- and politicians in India ignore them, the country's majority, at their peril. 
 A strong rupee lowers the value of imports into India and drives down the demand abroad for Indian exports. One result should be a flood of lower-price supplies on the domestic market, which would help drive down inflation. But this also hurts companies that rely on exports or are trying to attract outsourcing contracts. 
 The central bank is ''finding it hard to do a balancing act'' between curbing inflation and credit growth, and keeping the rupee from appreciating, Ms. Premsingh said. 
 Many newspapers have carried criticism of the bank's actions. 
 ''It is also time the policy makers remembered that exchange rate is not like the price of cabbage that can be left to the pure market forces of demand and supply,'' professors from Pondicherry University wrote in The Hindu on Saturday. 
 A Reserve Bank of India spokeswoman, Alpana Killawala, said that the bank never commented on its actions. 
 But others said they thought that the bank might move in the next few months to lower the rupee's value. ''There is a strong chance the R.B.I. may step in once it gets some comfort on inflation numbers,'' Ms. Premsingh said. Edelweiss Capital expects inflation to drop below 5 percent in June, she said, adding, ''We could see the R.B.I. step in then.'' 
 Several other countries on the subcontinent and in Southeast Asia are eager to capture some of the outsourcing business that has been dominated by India. Vietnam, the Philippines and Malaysia are all expected to join the competition.
 So far, though, specialists in the field say it is too early to see much impact from the rupee's rise. 
 ''The problem is that the technology industry here in Vietnam has so far not caught up to India,'' said Karen Davies of Opus Recruitment in Vietnam. ''Although there are a lot of people in university studying, there are few experienced people in the marketplace.
 ''Over the next three to five years, I see that changing,'' she said. ''It's just not going to happen overnight.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A bank employee counting currency notes in Mumbai. With some wages rising sharply and a limited number of white-collar workers, the fast-growing Indian economy risks being caught between opposing pressures. (Photo by Indranil Mukherjee/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); EXPORT PRICES (87%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); US DOLLAR (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EDELWEISS FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD (90%); RESERVE BANK OF INDIA (58%)

TICKER: EDELWEISS (NSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



483 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: China Talks Don't Resolve Major Issues

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 23 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and a team of cabinet members unveiled limited accords Wednesday with their Chinese counterparts to open markets in China but made little progress on major disputes over trade and currency.
 The United States and China committed themselves to doubling daily passenger flights and granting American carriers ''unfettered access'' for cargo. Another accord called for joint cooperation to develop clean coal-burning technologies and reduce trade barriers to products that help control pollution.
While China also agreed to allow foreign financial firms to expand their operations there modestly, the Bush administration failed to achieve an increase in the ownership ceilings that the Chinese impose on joint ventures with American firms, officials said. 
 Mr. Paulson, a former Goldman Sachs executive who negotiated many deals in China, had unsuccessfully pressed Wu Yi, a vice premier who headed the Chinese team, on that issue over dinner at his home Monday night.
 After the two-day session involving more than a dozen top officials on both sides, the Chinese started an unusual set of meetings with Congressional leaders to try to head off the possibility of sanctions against China this year. 
 But the difficulty of reaching that goal was made clear when Republicans and Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee released a tough letter to Ms. Wu, saying they had serious concerns about several Chinese economic practices.
 The letter cited China's ''massive and constant interventions in the currency markets'' to keep the value of its currency low, its use of subsidies to promote exports and its ''inability to enforce intellectual property rights.'' Over all, the letter accused China of not living up to its legal obligations under international trade agreements.
 The letter sent a signal, if one were needed, that the talks were unlikely to deter Congress from trying to impose sanctions on Chinese exports this year. It was signed by Representatives Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, and Jim McCrery of Louisiana, the chairman and ranking Republican on the Ways and Means Committee.
 Mr. Rangel, in a telephone interview Wednesday evening, said that the meeting with Ms. Wu went well but that he told her that whatever the value of the agreements her team made with the Bush administration this week, ''the legislative process will go forward.'' He said he told her that Congress represented ''the will of the people'' on trade with China.
 Mr. Paulson, who opposes such legislation, said at a news conference that the talks, the second session of a ''strategic economic dialogue'' begun last year -- the first session was in Beijing in December -- were worthwhile. ''While we have much more work to do, we have tangible results of our efforts thus far,'' he added. 
 Later, in an interview, the Treasury secretary declined to predict the impact on Congress of this week's session. ''All I can say is that we've made important progress, and that it's more progress than we would have without the S.E.D,'' referring to the strategic economic dialogue. 
 There were no statements to the press from the Chinese side, so it was left to the American side to describe the tone of the meetings, which it said was constructive and friendly, despite signs of deep unhappiness among the Chinese over recent American legal challenges to Chinese economic practices.
 On Tuesday, Ms. Wu said that efforts by some to ''politicize'' the Chinese-American relationship were ''absolutely unacceptable.'' This was taken as a reference to the American challenges to Chinese subsidies of exports and piracy of DVDs. 
 Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, speaking at the conclusion of the talks Wednesday, made it clear that her own session with Chinese leaders had done little to narrow differences on these issues. ''Suffice it to say we had a healthy exchange of views,'' she said.
 Two other cabinet members -- Mike Johanns, the agriculture secretary, and Michael O. Leavitt, the health and human services secretary -- said they had used the dialogue to press the Chinese on strengthening the safety of food and medicine exports.
 ''I thought our conversation was helpful,'' Mr. Johanns said.
 Mr. Paulson offered mixed views about China's movements on the currency issue, a particular flashpoint in Congress, where many lawmakers argue that China intervenes in the currency markets to keep the value of its currency low in relation to the dollar, a strategy that would promote its exports by making them cheaper for American consumers.
 Noting that the value of the Chinese currency had appreciated a little more than 8 percent in two years, with a small increase in the last few days, the Treasury chief called on China to ''move more quickly'' on currency.
 ''We make the case, they listen and they are moving,'' Mr. Paulson said. He said that an announcement last week that China was widening the band in which the currency could fluctuate each day was a ''positive signal'' but that more needed to be done over time.
 Reaction to the announcements by Mr. Paulson and the other administration officials was generally positive among business groups. Groups critical of American trade practices were skeptical, sometimes extremely so.
 ''There was progress in some areas,'' said Myron Brilliant, vice president for East Asia at the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''From our standpoint, we want to see more in certain areas. But if you look at the overall picture, the glass is more than half full.''
 But Alan Tonelson, a research fellow at the United States Business and Industrial Council, a group that generally opposes deals to reduce trade barriers and supports efforts to protect American industry from foreign competition, said the dialogue with China ''stands exposed as a cynical Bush administration exercise in spin and P.R.''
 He said the dialogue's only purpose was to ''fool the American people.''
 Mr. Paulson, in the telephone interview, said the tone of the discussions was healthy even when both sides disagreed. ''I think whenever you get a group of people that powerful together, you're going to have a serious discussion on a range of topics,'' he said.
 Mr. Paulson said he was impatient for more concrete results himself and hoped there would be further progress before the third session of the dialogue, in Beijing in December.
 ''I have no doubt that we're getting more results than we would have without this dialogue,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The transportation secretary, Mary E. Peters, left, and other cabinet members at the talks with Chinese officials in Washington yesterday. (Photo by Gerald Herbert/Associated Press)
 Wu Yi, China's vice premier, and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. led the two-day session involving more than a dozen top officials. (Photo by Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DISPUTES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (69%); EXPORT PROMOTION (69%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%); WU YI (89%); MARY PETERS (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); JIM MCCRERY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



484 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: Oil Industry Says Biofuel Push May Keep Gas Prices High

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD; Lisa Alcalay Klug and Nick Bunkley contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Gas prices are spiking again -- to an average of $3.22 a gallon, and close to $4 a gallon in many areas. 
 And some oil executives are now warning that the current shortages of fuel could become a long-term problem, leading to stubbornly higher prices at the pump.
 They point to a surprising culprit: uncertainty created by the government's push to increase the supply of biofuels like ethanol in coming years.
 In his State of the Union address in January, President Bush called for a sharp increase in the use of biofuels, along with some improvement in automobile fuel efficiency to reduce America's use of gasoline by 20 percent within 10 years. Congress is considering legislation calling for a nearly fivefold increase in the use of ethanol. 
 That has forced many oil companies to reconsider or scale back their plans for constructing new refinery capacity.
 In hearings before Congress last year, oil executives outlined plans to increase fuel production by expanding existing refineries. Those plans would add capacity of 1.6 million to 1.8 million barrels a day over the next five years, for an increase of 10 percent, according to the National Petrochemical and Refiners Association. 
 But those plans have since been scaled back to more than one million barrels a day, according to the Energy Information Administration, an arm of the federal government.
 ''If the national policy of the country is to push for dramatic increases in the biofuels industry, this is a disincentive for those making investment decisions on expanding capacity in oil products and refining,'' said John D. Hofmeister, the president of the Shell Oil Company. ''Industrywide, this will have an impact.''
 The concerns were echoed in a recent report by Barclays Capital, which said the uncertainty about the ethanol growth ''will do little to accelerate desperately needed investment in complex United States refining units.''
 ''Indeed, it is likely to deter and further delay investment, if not rule out many refinery investments completely.''
 Even so, the current cost of gas -- which in real terms is approaching the old peak of $1.42 a gallon in March 1981, or $3.31 adjusted for inflation -- has renewed suspicions that the oil industry is looking for ways to keep profits high by delaying much-needed investments. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, began hearings yesterday on the topic ''Is Market Concentration in the U.S. Petroleum Industry Harming Consumers?''
 And the House voted yesterday by a narrow margin to penalize any oil companies, traders or retailers found to be charging ''unconscionably excessive'' prices for gasoline and other fuels. President Bush will probably veto the measure because the White House has said such legislation would amount to price controls. 
 Experts point to many short-term reasons the United States is running low on gasoline, causing prices to rise: many oil companies are doing maintenance work on refineries; new federal rules make fuels cleaner but costlier; and a string of delays, fires and accidents in the industry have reduced supplies just when drivers are starting to hit the road for summer vacations. Many analysts predict prices will keep rising, then soften later in the summer as demand trails off.
 Energy executives dismissed any suggestions that they were intentionally keeping gasoline off the market.
 The oil companies say their views on the longer-term prospects for fuel reflect simple economics. Because of the enormous investments required to expand refineries, they say they have no other choice but to re-examine their plans in light of the calls for more ethanol fuel, regardless of how realistic they may be.
 ''The policy environment has shifted dramatically,'' said Mike Wirth, head of global refining business for Chevron. ''There is a great risk that has been introduced to projects, predicated upon increasing supplies, that the demand may not be there.''
 Refineries are a choke point in the nation's supply of fuel. Because they have not invested enough in refineries to increase gasoline supplies, oil companies have been unable to meet the country's growing demand in recent years. That has forced them to rely on imports, which are more expensive than fuel refined domestically. 
 The fragility of the refining system became apparent after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. At the time, President Bush offered to reopen some military bases as sites for constructing refineries and Congress passed legislation to encourage refiners.
 But oil companies rejected the idea of constructing new refineries in the United States, saying it would be impractical and too expensive.
 As a result of the push for biofuels, and encouraged by federal subsidies and grants, dozens of ethanol distilleries are being planned. These investments should double the annual production of ethanol from corn to 15 billion gallons by 2012 from about 6 billion gallons today.
 But given farmland constraints and the need to use corn for food, that is as much ethanol as can possibly be produced from corn, according to the ethanol industry's own calculations. Ethanol producers recognize that it is not clear how an additional 20 billion gallons of ethanol -- President Bush has called for 35 billion gallons of biofuels by 2017 -- would be produced from cellulose or biomass. 
 ''The current thinking is that based on today's technology, we suspect corn-based ethanol will generate at least 15 billion gallons,'' said Brian Jennings, the executive vice president of the American Coalition for Ethanol, an association of ethanol and corn producers. ''Beyond that, it's uncertain. The marketplace will make that determination on where it will come from.''
 Yet some members of Congress would like to make the president's goal for biofuels a mandatory target -- the equivalent of 2.3 million barrels a day that would, in effect, create an ethanol industry roughly the size of world-class oil producers like Kuwait or Nigeria. 
 The economics of cellulosic ethanol, made from nonfood crops and agricultural waste, are also unclear. Since cellulosic ethanol, still at an experimental stage, is twice as expensive as corn-based ethanol, there are currently no commercial-scale cellulosic plants.
 Lawrence Goldstein, an energy analyst at the Energy Policy Research Foundation, an industry-financed group, has been warning for nearly a year that the government's twin goals of encouraging refiners to increase production and promoting increased supplies of biofuels work against each other.
 ''These two policies are not complementary,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''These policies are in conflict.''
 In addition, Mr. Goldstein said, an emphasis on ethanol might lead to increased volatility in fuel prices.
 ''If we get a bad corn crop, we will end up paying for it at the pump and on the food shelves,'' he said. ''We are not buying security. We are increasing volatility.''
 Clay Sell, the deputy secretary of energy, acknowledged the concern, but said that rising energy consumption meant both biofuels and additional refining capacity would be needed in the long term.
 ''One can think that these goals are potentially in conflict,'' Mr. Sell said. ''But demand growth supports the need for investments in biofuels and growth in refining capacity. Are we concerned about it? Yes. But do we believe these concerns are well founded? No.''
 Until the mid-1990s, the United States had significant spare refining capacity. But because of consolidation in the industry, the number of refineries declined while unprofitable operations were shut. As demand grew, however, and capacity remained flat, the picture changed. In recent years, refineries in the United States have been running at or close to full capacity. 
 Domestic refineries can now process about 17.5 million barrels of crude oil each day, much of it imported. But with consumption now close to about 21 million barrels a day, more imports of refined products are also needed.
 In recent weeks, refiners point out that they have been increasing output: gasoline production in the United States is at its highest level ever, 8.85 million barrels a day.
 Also, by increasing output from existing refineries, oil companies say they have expanded their production by 200,000 barrels a day since last year. Expansion of existing plants has added the equivalent of 10 new refineries over the last 10 years. 
 The refining industry has also spent vast amounts -- more than $50 billion in the last 10 years -- to meet requirements to produce cleaner fuels, according to the American Petroleum Institute, the industry's main trade group.
 But demand is outstripping supply. In the first three quarters of the year, gasoline use grew by 2 percent, nearly twice last year's pace. Domestically produced supplies, though, have increased by only 0.5 percent a year on average.
 Some consumers, meanwhile, are trying to drive less or are simply absorbing the higher cost. ''I'm already driving the minimum,'' said Dennis Zygnowicz, 51, of Garden City, Mich., who recently stopped at a Shell station and paid about $12 to put less than four gallons in his GMC Jimmy. ''The only way I could do any less would be to ride a bike.''
 Another driver, Tamar Bittelman, a kindergarten teacher from Berkeley, Calif., says her daily commute gives her little choice. ''It's unbelievable to me how much I'm paying for gas,'' said Ms. Bittelman, who recently paid $3.56 a gallon to fill her 1998 Subaru Legacy wagon. ''I'm just much more aware of how much every trip to the grocery store is costing us.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel Burkhardsmeier, a trucker, filling his tanker on Tuesday at a refinery in Pascagoula, Miss.
 A tanker leaving a refinery in Chalmette, La. Oil companies have scaled back plans to increase fuel production at existing refineries because of calls for greater use of ethanol. (Photographs by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)(pg. A22) Graph tracks Inflation-adjusted price of regular gasoline, In 2007 dollars since 1975. (Source by Energy Information Administration)(pg. A1) Chart/Map: ''Around the Country'' Gas prices tend to be higher in the West and some parts of the Midwest. Map of the United States showing Daily average price for a gallon of regular unleaded gas in each county as of May 21. (Sources by Energy Information Administration, Oil Price Information Service)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ETHANOL (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); GASOLINE (79%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); VETO (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PETROCHEMICALS (74%); PLANT CAPACITY (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); RETAILERS (60%)

COMPANY: SHELL OIL CO (82%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); CHARLES SCHUMER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



485 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Remarks Deflate Market Mood

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks wilted yesterday as comments from Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, and worries about coming economic data deflated a rally fed by takeover activity.
 The Dow Jones industrial average briefly rose above 13,600 for the first time, after fresh deal-related developments that included a possible bidding battle for the aluminum producer Alcan. But the excitement waned after Mr. Greenspan expressed concern about an eventual sharp decline in China's stock market, which has recently been hitting record highs.
Energy prices failed to ease despite a rebound in crude and gasoline inventories last week, further dampening Wall Street's mood. And with critical reports on durable goods and new-home sales to be released today and the Memorial Day weekend ahead, investors adopted a defensive stance. 
 For weeks, strong merger and acquisition activity has been the primary force lifting the Dow, which crossed 13,000 less than a month ago. So analysts were not surprised to see investors take a breather after Mr. Greenspan's cautionary comments.
 ''He still carries a lot of clout,'' said Steven DeSanctis, small-cap strategist with Prudential Equity Group. 
 The Dow fell 14.30 points, to 13,525.65, after climbing to an intraday trading record of 13,609.76.
 Broader stock indicators were also lower. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.84 points, to 1,522.28, still unable to finish above its record close of 1,527.46 set in March 2000.
 The Nasdaq composite index slipped 10.97 points, to 2,577.05, after briefly trading above 2,600 for the first time in more than six years. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 3.38 points, to 836.54.
 News that Alcoa's $27.4 billion hostile bid for Alcan was rebuffed gave stocks an early lift, as did a Canadian media report that the Australian mining giant BHP Billiton might make its own offer.
 Alcoa rose $1.42, to $40.37; Alcan rose $4.86, to $85.89; and American depository receipts of BHP Billiton rose $1.01, to $51.76.
 On Tuesday, Morgan Stanley Real Estate announced it would acquire the real estate investment trust Crescent Real Estate Equities for $2.34 billion, and Payless ShoeSource said it would buy a competing shoe store chain, Stride Rite, for about $800 million. Stride Rite soared $4.76, to $20.21. Payless rose $3.24, to $35.14.
 The stock market has been surging on recent deals, which signal that there is ample cash in the marketplace and that corporate executives are confident about the economy. Although most market participants are optimistic about the stock market in the long term, many are bracing for a short-term dip once the takeover euphoria wears off.
 ''The market's been held up by all of this M.& A. activity, not by fundamentals,'' said Edgar E. Peters, chief investment officer at PanAgora Asset Management.
 A new batch of strong earnings yesterday, particularly from retailers, reassured investors that the economy was not so weak that it was destroying companies' profits or consumer spending.
 Target rose 56 cents, to $58.60, after reporting that its first-quarter profit beat estimates.
 Still, many investors worry that energy prices will eat into discretionary spending. Crude futures rose 26 cents, to $65.77 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange despite a 1.5 million-barrel gain in gasoline stockpiles last week.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 5/32, to 97 9/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 4.85 percent, from 4.82 percent. 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); MERGERS (79%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (79%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (79%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); GASOLINE (75%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (74%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (71%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (71%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); SHOE STORES (64%)

COMPANY: RIO TINTO ALCAN INC (85%); BHP BILLITON PLC (82%); ALCOA INC (81%); PAYLESS SHOESOURCE INC (63%); CRESCENT REAL ESTATE EQUITIES CO (52%); MORGAN STANLEY REAL ESTATE CO (52%)

TICKER: BLT (LSE) (82%); BIBLT (JSE) (82%); BBL (NYSE) (82%); AAI (ASX) (81%); AA (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (85%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (85%); NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS331523 NONFERROUS METAL DIE-CASTING FOUNDRIES (85%); NAICS331315 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3353 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL (85%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (82%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (82%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (82%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (82%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (82%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (63%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (63%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



486 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: U.S., Annoyed by U.N. Report on Iran and Uranium, Hopes to Use It to Widen Sanctions

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 23 

 BODY:
The Bush administration said Wednesday that it would use a new report detailing Iran's progress in enriching uranium to encourage European and Asian allies to seek a major expansion of sanctions against Tehran, an economic crackdown that could extend beyond what the United Nations Security Council has authorized.
 In an interview, R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, said the report, by the International Atomic Energy Agency, was ''alarming'' because it showed that earlier this month, Iran was operating 1,300 centrifuges simultaneously. 
But it is unclear whether Iran can sustain that level of activity, and Mr. Burns stopped well short of endorsing the conclusion last week by Mohamed ElBaradei, the director general of the agency, that the Iranians ''pretty much have the knowledge about how to enrich.'' 
 Mr. Burns sharply disagreed with Dr. ElBaradei's characterization of the current stalemate with Iran as evidence that the American-European strategy had failed, and insisted that Iran had been successfully isolated, even though it was pressing forward with uranium production.
 While Dr. ElBaradei has quietly been arguing that Washington and its European allies should consider letting Iran operate a small number of centrifuges as part of a face-saving compromise that would sharply limit its nuclear activities, Mr. Burns said the United States and its allies were headed the other way: toward tougher sanctions, at the United Nations and beyond. The I.A.E.A. is a United Nations agency. 
 ''Iran is thumbing its nose at the international community,'' Mr. Burns said.
 American intelligence agencies are still trying to assess the significance of Iran's work on uranium enrichment, including whether the progress on centrifuges requires rethinking current estimates that Iran remains at least several years away from producing a nuclear weapon. 
 While the report indicated that Iran's 1,300 centrifuges were all running during a surprise inspection nine days ago, it also said that Iran had fed only 260 kilograms of uranium hexafluoride into the machines for enrichment over the past few months. Experts said that was a low amount, suggesting the centrifuges were running quite slowly, perhaps to keep them from failing. 
 The decision to press for tougher sanctions comes one year after the United States and five other nations made Iran an offer that it has so far refused to accept. At its core is a package of economic incentives in exchange for Iran's suspension of its enrichment program.
 Mr. Bush's aides insist that even though Iran has spurned the offer for a year, they have no intention of changing course. They say they will continue to demand that Iran suspend enrichment, or face ever tougher sanctions. 
 Within the Security Council, the United States and Britain will push, at the very least, to impose a mandatory travel ban on Iranian officials involved in the nuclear program. That ban could extend to other members of the government, administration officials said. 
 They also said that outside of the Security Council, the United States would push for a ban on arms sales to Iran, and would prod European countries to cut export credits to Iran.
 ''The Iranians need to know that we're serious about this,'' Mr. Burns said. 
 There were indications that the United States might be able to count on new support from France and its new president, Nicolas Sarkozy. He told a German monthly, Cicero, in an interview published Wednesday, ''I for my part think one should not hesitate to toughen the sanctions'' if Iran did not cooperate. 
 His predecessor, Jacques Chirac, often said he did not like to resort to sanctions, even though France supported the initial measures imposed by the Security Council in December 2006 and again two months ago. 
 American and European officials said they were irked by Dr. ElBaradei's recent comments, primarily in an interview with The New York Times last week, suggesting that their insistence on Iran's full suspension of nuclear activities had been overtaken by events. Dr. ElBaradei made the case that the intent of a suspension was to keep Iran from learning how to enrich nuclear fuel; now, he said, ''it is simply a question of perfecting that knowledge.''
 American, British, French and German officials plan to lodge an official diplomatic complaint to Dr. ElBaradei about his comments, and his suggestion that they consider allowing Iran to retain some enrichment activities.
 This is not the first time Dr. ElBaradei has annoyed the Bush administration. In early 2003 he declared there was no evidence that Saddam Hussein had reconstituted Iraq's nuclear weapons program, an assessment that proved correct. 
 American officials tried to block him from winning a second term running the agency. Not long afterward, Dr. ElBaradei was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
 ''Mr. ElBaradei believes that there is an imaginary line over which Iran has stepped,'' one European official said this week. ''Well, that is not his judgment to make.''
 The agency's new report said that Iran had continued to limit the information available to inspectors, and that it had refused to answer longstanding questions about elements of its nuclear program. ''Iran has not agreed to any of the required transparency measures, which are essential for the clarification of certain aspects of the scope and nature of its nuclear program,'' the report concluded. 
 For the six nations pressing Iran on its nuclear program, progress has been excruciatingly slow. While the United States, Britain and, to a lesser extent, France and Germany, have pushed for tough sanctions, Russia and China have balked. Both Russia and China crossed major diplomatic thresholds last summer when they agreed to seek Security Council sanctions against Iran, but both countries have also dragged their feet about actually imposing them.
 Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy minister, will meet next week with Iran's top nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, in Berlin and will repeat the offer of incentives made last year, American and European diplomats said. If Iran again refuses to suspend enrichment, the six nations will begin drawing up a third Security Council sanctions resolution.
 The issue is expected to be discussed at next week's Group of Eight foreign ministers meeting in Potsdam, Germany. 
 Further inflaming tensions with Iran, the United States has dispatched nine warships with 17,000 troops into the Persian Gulf. The Navy said the ships, including two aircraft carriers, would conduct exercises as part of a long-planned effort to reassure Arab allies of Washington's commitment to their security. Naval officials said the exercise was one of the largest assemblies of ships since 2003. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohamed ElBaradei, of the International Atomic Energy Agency. His report on Iran's progress in uranium enrichment has drawn criticism. (Photo by Jean-Christophe Verhaegen/Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CENTRIFUGES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); INSPECTIONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (85%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%)

PERSON: MOHAMED ELBARADEI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); ASIA (92%); IRAN (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



487 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: 'The Apprentice: Omaha Edition,' Starring Warren Buffett

BYLINE: By AUSTAN GOOLSBEE. 
Austan Goolsbee is a professor of economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business and a research fellow at the American Bar Foundation. E-mail: goolsbee@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A number of years ago, in a moment of professional weakness, I bought exactly one share of Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway (the Class B share, mind you, not the $100,000 kind). For a brief moment, I thought his track record might disprove the economist's mantra that no one can beat the market in the long term so it's better to just invest in index funds like one that matches the S.& P. 500. 
 The mantra comes from the rather compelling evidence that actively managed mutual funds cost too much and don't always act in the shareholders' interests. They churn stocks, for example -- raising fees while also generating capital gains taxes for the investors. Their high fees sharply cut into investment returns in the long run. 
The managers of these funds also have incentives that make them, perhaps, less mindful of the interests of shareholders. Their money comes from fees, typically billed as a percentage of total assets, not investment returns, so to attract new investors, they do things -- like spending money on advertising -- that current investors don't like. 
 Berkshire Hathaway seemed like a mutual fund but without the bad incentives. Mr. Buffett doesn't care about churning stocks to get bigger fees. He doesn't do things at the expense of his shareholders. He is the Oracle of Omaha, for Pete's sake. If anyone can beat the market, it's him. 
 Well, I still own that share, but it hasn't worked out as well as I had hoped. My share has underperformed the S.& P. 500 since I have owned it. My colleagues have mocked me incessantly, but I have remained a closet romantic, hoping that Mr. Buffett would renew his secret formula and prove my colleagues wrong.
 Then I found out that the 76-year-old Mr. Buffett had asked for applications from people wanting to become his successor. Many hundreds applied. So at the annual shareholders' meeting in Omaha this month, he announced his new search strategy: rather than decide from old-style resumes and interviews, he planned to choose three or four top candidates and then give each $5 billion or so to manage and see how they do. The winner gets the job.
 When I heard about this, the romance died. For all of Mr. Buffett's reputation as the ultimate nonmutual fund, he may have just fallen into one of the biggest mutual fund traps of all -- forgetting how incentives affect fund managers' behavior.
 Two of the foremost economists in the country, Glenn Ellison of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Judith Chevalier of Yale have shown how important incentives are. In their classic paper ''Risk Taking by Mutual Funds as a Response to Incentives,'' for example, they showed that investors pour money into mutual funds in a highly skewed way. They chase winners, despite the evidence indicating that mutual funds that win in one year do not necessarily perform better in subsequent years. Funds with the highest annual returns get a huge inflow of money compared with funds that did almost as well but were not at the very top. 
 And since the amount of money a mutual fund makes depends on fees, not on the actual performance of the stocks they own, this gives the fund managers in the last quarter of the year some rather perverse incentives to take risks with the current investors' money to try to influence the reported end-of-year return. 
 In a fund doing well but not stellar in the first three quarters of the year, the manager has a clear incentive to take big risks. If the risks pan out, the payoff in the last quarter can raise the fund's return enough to get it into a top 10 list, say, and attract a huge number of new investors. If the risk doesn't pay off, the return will be lower but the fees won't be too much lower than they were before. 
 The study showed that managers responded rather directly to these incentives. The managers heading toward the top of the ranking increased their risk-taking significantly in the last quarter of the year whereas those in the middle played it extra safe. 
 So think about what incentives you create by handing four people $5 billion and telling them that whoever has done best in two years will get the most prized job in the investment world. 
 First place means a huge prize and second place means the same payoff as coming in last. Mr. Buffett has created an astounding incentive for managers to take risks, make a splash or otherwise make it to No. 1. 
 Ms. Chevalier, in an interview, said she found the approach surprising. ''The shorter the evaluation period, the worse it is,'' she said. ''But no matter what, it's still pretty bad.
 ''It doesn't sound like a good hiring strategy,'' she continued, ''It sounds more like an episode of 'The Apprentice.' ''
 On the show, Donald Trump would fire someone from the team that earned less money, whether $1 less or $1 million less. That gave the contestants an incentive to do crazy things for the camera. But it's no way to pick an investment manager. 
 The whole benefit of Berkshire Hathaway was that Warren Buffett's investment choices weren't driven by the kinds of crass manager-level incentives that seem to pervade the mutual fund business. By announcing he intends to pick a manager through a contest, Mr. Buffett will have transformed the ultimate nonmutual fund into something very much like a mutual fund. It's a move straight from the playbook of The Donald himself. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INDEX FUNDS (76%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (74%); EVIDENCE (72%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%); INTERVIEWS (65%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (85%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (85%); BRK.A (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (85%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (85%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (88%) NEBRASKA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007



488 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Poor Decisions? Knicks Deserve A Mulligan

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
As the N.B.A. playoffs grind forth, Madison Square Garden is dark once again. 
 The Knicks recently completed their sixth consecutive losing season, and their fourth since Isiah Thomas became team president.
With Memorial Day approaching, N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern has to devise a solution to the league's New York conundrum.
 How long do you allow this franchise to perform poorly? How long do you allow a flagship franchise to be at or near the bottom? 
 The Knicks are one of the N.B.A.'s pillar franchises. They have the largest payroll but also probably the bleakest outlook for winning a championship any time soon. 
 Some optimists predict that by the 2009-10 season the Knicks will be under the salary cap in a substantial way and therefore in position to acquire the star player who will lead them to a long-awaited title. But that's two more seasons -- 164 games, 18 more months -- of losing and just missing. Two seasons, at least, before they can come out from under a suffocating salary-cap manhole. 
 What is a commissioner to do? 
 I suggest that the league wipe the slate clean. 
 The N.B.A. should act like the World Bank and treat the Knicks like a developing nation. The league needs success in New York and there is only one way to achieve that: The N.B.A. has to forgive the Knicks' debt. 
 Last season, the Knicks had a payroll of more than $120 million, the largest by far in the N.B.A. The Knicks are perennially so far over the league's salary cap that it will be a long time before they can obtain the sort of transcendent player who can lead them to a championship. 
 The salary cap was installed nearly two decades ago as a way to prevent teams in larger markets from outspending smaller-market teams and buying up the best players. But the cap hasn't stopped the Knicks from ill-advised spending, from habitually becoming entangled with bad contracts, flawed players and star-crossed coaches. 
 There is a precedent for this sort of relief. In the summer of 2005, Stern persuaded the owners to include an amnesty clause in the collective-bargaining agreement: a one-time opportunity for teams to waive one player and avoid having him count against the team's luxury-tax calculation. The salary, however, was still counted against the salary cap.
 ''The owners fought me on that,'' Stern said yesterday.
 But the commissioner persuaded the owners to grant amnesty for the good of the league. 
 So why not suggest this more invasive, one-time amnesty to the owners, by erasing the Knicks' salary-cap and luxury-tax excesses? For the good of the N.B.A.
 Allow the Knicks to dump four contracts (say, Steve Francis, Jerome James, Jared Jeffries and Malik Rose) and move under the salary cap. 
 The Knicks are an important team for the N.B.A. Talk all you want -- as Stern did yesterday -- about all the franchises being the same, about all being equal, about no franchise being more important than another. 
 But New York, Chicago, Boston and Los Angeles are the preferred cities to go deep into the playoffs, to reach the finals -- to maximize television revenue. 
 In a peculiar way, however, it's good business for the N.B.A. to have a spendthrift team like the Knicks exceed the cap and pay the luxury tax. The tax is distributed to teams that are under the cap, providing them with additional income. These are the teams that are beating the Knicks and spending less money in the process. 
 Stern wasn't hearing it. Two years ago, he said, he believed amnesty ''was an appropriate time to reset a little bit, with emphasis on a little bit.''
 A similar move now, he said, ''would be too large a gesture, and that would be too disruptive in the context of a new collective-bargaining agreement.'' 
 Stern suggested that his misgivings with my World Bank-Developing Nations analogy notwithstanding, this was an issue of rewarding competence.
 Why should franchises that have budgeted and exercised fiscal restraint have to bail out a New York franchise that has made stupendous blunders over the years in pursuit not so much of a championship, but of packed arenas and big-name players. 
 ''What do you say to teams that are under the cap, have managed under the cap and are doing very well competitively?'' Stern said.
 I'd say patience may be a virtue in San Antonio and Salt Lake City, but it's not a virtue in New York. 
 Here is what else I'd tell those teams: For years you guys sent your washed-up, overpaid players to the Knicks. The Knicks became the destination of choice for a parade of bad contracts -- Penny Hardaway, Jalen Rose, Antonio Davis, Francis. New York helped out the N.B.A. Now it's time the league gives a little something back.
 Forgive the Knickerbockers' debt, commissioner. Give a little power to the people. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: For the good of the league, Commissioner David Stern would be wise to wipe out the team's debt. (Photo by Joe Giza/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AMNESTY (86%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



489 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Climb, but Prices Plummet

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24 

 BODY:
Sales of new homes surged in April by the biggest jump in 14 years, but the median price of a new home dropped by the largest amount on record. The mixed signals left no clear picture of whether the worst of the nation's housing slump was over.
 The Commerce Department reported that sales of new single-family homes jumped by 16.2 percent in April, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 981,000 units. That was far better than the tiny 0.2 percent gain that economists had been expecting. 
But the median price of a new home sold last month fell to $229,100, a record 11.1 percent decline from the previous month. The big price decline indicated that builders were cutting prices in an effort to move unsold homes.
 The jump in sales was the biggest increase since a 16.4 percent surge in new-home sales in April 1993.
 Analysts cautioned against reading too much into the big gain, especially in light of other surveys showing that builder confidence had sunk in recent months over worries that troubles in the subprime mortgage market would further crimp demand in coming months.
 The strength in sales was led by a 27.8 percent surge in the South. Sales were also up in the West by 8.5 percent and in the Northeast, where they rose 3.8 percent.
 Sales fell 4 percent in the Midwest.
 The drop in median prices in April compared with March was a record one-month decline. When the April sales price is compared with the sales price a year ago, the decline is 10.9 percent, the biggest year-over-year drop since 1970.
 In other economic news, the Commerce Department said that orders to American factories for big-ticket manufactured goods posted a moderate 0.6 percent increase in April, helped by a continued rebound in business investment.
 In a third report, the Labor Department said that the number of newly laid-off workers filing applications for unemployment benefits rose to 311,000 last week, an increase of 15,000. Even with the gain, claims remained at a level indicating a healthy labor market.
 While the increase in orders for durable goods was less than had been expected, the government sharply revised the March performance to show a 5 percent surge, much stronger than the 3.7 percent gain previously reported.
 Analysts say they believe that American factories, which have been buffeted by the weakness in housing and slumping demand for autos, are starting to stage a moderate rebound, helped by reviving interest on the part of businesses to spend money to expand and modernize.
 The overall economy slowed in the first three months of the year to an annual growth rate of just 1.3 percent, the weakest performance in four years, as the housing slump continued to weigh on performance.
 Analysts are hoping that spending by consumers and businesses will be able to overcome the weakness in housing and keep the country out of a recession.
 The report on durable goods offered encouragement in the area of business investment. It showed that demand for capital goods excluding airplanes, considered a good proxy for business investment, rose by 1.2 percent in April, the second solid monthly increase.
 The 0.6 percent rise in total durable goods orders came even though demand for transportation products fell by 1.3 percent. This reflected a drop of 10.7 percent in demand for commercial aircraft and a 1.9 percent fall in orders for motor vehicles.
 Excluding transportation, orders would have been up by 1.5 percent, the same performance as in March.
 There was strength in orders for primary metals like steel, which rose by 4.3 percent, and orders for electronic equipment and appliances, which rose by 3.8 percent.
 But demand was weak for computers, which fell by 7.8 percent, and communications equipment, which dropped 5 percent. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''New-Home Sales'' Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted. April: +16.2% March: - 1.4 Feb.: - 3.8 (Source by Commerce Department) Chart: ''Prices of New Homes'' Median price for new homes. April: -11.1% March: +3.0 Feb.: -1.7 (Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (52%); SUBPRIME LENDING (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



490 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers In New Jersey Advance Bill On Paid Leave

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: TRENTON, May 24 

 BODY:
Employees of many New Jersey businesses would be entitled to up to 10 weeks of family leave with partial pay for a new baby, a difficult pregnancy or an ill parent or spouse, under a measure approved on Thursday by a Senate committee.
 The plan would be financed by employee payroll deductions, which would be about 92 cents a week, and would not require any contribution by employers. Those taking the leave would be eligible for two-thirds of their weekly salary up to a maximum of $488 a week. 
The measure would apply only to those who work for New Jersey businesses, and not to New Jersey residents who work in adjacent states. 
 If the bill is passed by the full Senate and the Assembly and signed into law by the governor, New Jersey would become the third state, after California and Washington, to require companies to offer some form of family leave with partial pay.
 The Senate Budget Committee voted 8 to 6 to approve the measure, which would apply to businesses with 50 or more employees, after testimony from business representatives who opposed it and members of unions and public interest groups who supported it.
 The Assembly speaker, Joseph J. Roberts Jr., said he doubted that the matter would be taken up in his chamber before the Legislature recessed on June 30.
 ''I'm keeping an open mind on paid family leave,'' Mr. Roberts said in a statement Thursday. ''But because our primary focus right now is on achieving a balanced state budget, I don't believe the Assembly will consider this issue before we recess.''
 Business groups contended that despite the exclusion of the state's smallest businesses and the lack of a required employer contribution -- concessions made over recent months by supporters -- the family leave measure would still cost businesses dearly because of their need to fill slots left vacant by employees on family leave.
 ''It's not a matter of who pays or doesn't pay,'' said Philip Kirschner, president of the New Jersey Business and Industry Association. He added that the bill would further hurt the business climate in the state, citing a survey by his group that ranked New Jersey as the 43rd least competitive state in the nation.
 Charles Wowkanech, the president of the state A.F.L.-C.I.O., said the labor movement had been lobbying for a family leave bill for 10 years. He said the concessions made in recent months showed how badly groups like his wanted some form of the measure adopted.
 Before the vote, Senators Stephen M. Sweeney and Barbara Buono, the prime sponsors of the bill, jousted with business representatives who suggested that the state's sluggish job growth over the last few years would worsen if the bill was passed.
 ''You guys said the same thing about the minimum wage,'' Mr. Sweeney, a Democrat, said. ''You said it was going to be the end of the world.''
 Ms. Buono, also a Democrat, said, ''It was ridiculous to suggest that the specter of family leave would slow'' the economy, and she pointed to recent reports that increases in corporate tax revenues were expected to exceed earlier projections. 
 She and Mr. Sweeney were supported by at least one Republican on the committee, Senator Nicholas Asselta of Vineland, who called the bill a ''quality of life issue'' that could attract new businesses to the state.
 The measure, if signed into law, would go into effect in January 2009, when deductions would begin, and no leaves with partial pay would be possible until July 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE LEAVE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY LEAVE (90%); FAMILY (90%); SICK LEAVE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (79%); LABOR UNIONS (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (79%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); APPROVALS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); BUDGETS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



491 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Bill Provisions Gain Wide Support in Poll

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Megan Thee, Marina Stefan and Dalia Sussman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As opponents from the right and left challenge an immigration bill before Congress, there is broad support among Americans -- Democrats, Republicans and independents alike -- for the major provisions in the legislation, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
 Taking a pragmatic view on a divisive issue, a large majority of Americans want to change the immigration laws to allow illegal immigrants to gain legal status and to create a new guest worker program to meet future labor demands, the poll found.
 At the same time, Americans have mixed feelings about whether the recent wave of immigration has been beneficial to the country, the survey found, and they are sharply divided over how open the United States should be to future immigrants.
 Half of Americans say they are ready to transform the process for selecting new immigrants as proposed in the bill, giving priority to job skills and education levels over family ties to the United States, which have been the foundation of the immigration system for four decades. 
 Point by point, large majorities expressed support for measures in the legislation that has been under debate since Monday in the Senate.
 The nationwide telephone poll did not ask respondents about the immigration bill itself, but there were questions about its most significant provisions. It was conducted May 18 to 23 with 1,125 adults, and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
 The bill, which is backed by President Bush and a bipartisan group of senators, would allow illegal immigrants who were in the United States before Jan. 1 of this year to obtain legal status by paying fines and passing background checks.
 Two-thirds of those polled said illegal immigrants who had a good employment history and no criminal record should gain legal status as the bill proposes, which is by paying at least $5,000 in fines and fees and receiving a renewable four-year visa.
 Many Republican lawmakers have rejected this plan, calling it amnesty that rewards immigrants who broke the law when they entered the United States. But the poll showed that differences are not great between Republicans and Democrats on this issue, with 66 percent of Republicans in the poll favoring the legalization proposal, as well as 72 percent of Democrats and 65 percent of independents.
 Rick Nunez, a 29-year-old quality control technician from Pennsauken, N. J., who identified himself as a Republican, said in a follow-up telephone call that he favored a legalization plan.
 ''Illegal immigrants are imbedded in our nation, so allowing them to apply for a work visa would be a good way to draw them in and set a path for them to become legal,'' said Mr. Nunez, whose family came from Puerto Rico. ''If they have been working here and are law abiding and can contribute to our country, they should be allowed to stay and become citizens.''
 Most of those polled agreed that illegal immigrants should eventually be allowed to apply to become American citizens. But 59 percent said illegal immigrants should be considered for citizenship only after legal immigrants who have played by the rules.
 Under the Senate bill, illegal immigrants would have to wait eight years before they could become permanent residents and at least 13 years to become citizens.
 Two-thirds of Americans in the survey favored creating a guest-worker program for future immigrants. The bill would create a temporary-worker program in which immigrants would come for three stints of two years each, going home for one year between each stint and returning home for good after the third.
 More than half of those who favored the guest-worker program said the workers should be allowed to apply to become permanent immigrants and eventually American citizens, if they maintain a strong work history and commit no crimes. About a third of those who favored the program disagreed, saying guest workers should be required to return home after their temporary period.
 The bill does not include a path to citizenship for guest workers. In the debate, Democrat senators have sharply criticized the temporary-worker plan, saying it would create an underclass of easily exploited low-skilled workers. On Wednesday, senators voted to cut back the number of guest workers to 200,000 from the 400,000 proposed in the bill.
 The bill also calls for reinforcing the country's borders, cracking down on employers who hire illegal immigrants and eliminating the backlog of visa applications from aspiring legal immigrants. In the poll, 75 percent of those who responded favored tougher penalties for employers of illegal workers, and 82 percent said the federal government should do more to reinforce the border. But only 15 percent favored fences as the main method to reduce illegal border crossings.
 The poll showed that Americans are uncertain about the benefits of the most recent wave of immigration, and divided over how many immigrants should come in the future. Fifty-seven percent said recent immigrants had made a contribution to the United States. But 35 percent said that in the long run, the new immigrants would make American society worse, while only 28 percent said they would make it better.
 A plurality of 48 percent favored imposing some controls on immigration. But large minorities on either side disagreed, with a quarter of respondents saying the United States should open its borders to all immigrants, and a quarter saying that the borders should be completely closed. These polarized positions may help explain the acrimony of the immigration debate across the nation.
 By large margins, people in the poll are aware that the majority of the immigrants who have arrived in recent years are illegal, and 61 percent said that illegal immigration was a very serious problem. A large majority, 70 percent of respondents, said they believed that illegal immigrants weaken the American economy because they use public services but do not pay corresponding taxes.
 ''This has nothing to do with any particular person or group of people, but housing and schooling are going to illegal immigrants,'' said Barbara Jackson, 55, a visiting nurse from the Bronx who identified herself as a Democrat. ''You build affordable housing and then put someone in it who hasn't paid their dues. Do Americans' tax dollars pay for us to be second?''
 Economists have found that many undocumented workers have Social Security and other taxes deducted from their paychecks, and have contributed as much as $7 billion to the Social Security Administration while claiming no benefits because of their illegal status. But Robert Rector of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative group, has reported that low-skilled illegal immigrant families cause an overall fiscal drain.
 Among those polled, a majority of 51 percent favored overhauling the American immigration system to make it more attuned to economic demands, giving priority to job skills and educational accomplishment. Only 34 percent said that immigrants with family ties in the United States should take precedence.
 Family reunification has been the cornerstone of the immigration system since 1965. The bill proposes to move to a merit system in which points would be assigned for work skills and education.
 ''I think this country would benefit from having people relocate here who have an educational background that would be an asset to the country,'' said Delores Mitchell, 66, a retired social worker from Highland Hills, Ohio, who identified herself as an independent.
 ''I just don't feel it should be based on whether family is here or not. We need people who have more job skills,'' Ms. Mitchell said in a follow-up interview to the poll.
 Most Americans in the poll said they believed the country will be served if immigrants can work legally. ''When immigrants do take jobs, they're hard workers,'' said Anna Cooper, 55, a homemaker in Venice, Fla., who identified herself as an independent. ''They just want to work, that's the bottom line. They need a paycheck to take care of their families.'' 
 FAVOR: 66% OPPOSE: 30 How should priority be given when admitting immigrants? EDUCATION, JOB SKILLS AND WORK EXPERIENCE: 51% FAMILY IN THE U.S.: 34 IT DEPENDS: 5 Should illegal immigrants get a renewable visa if they pay a fine, have a clean record and pass a background check?
 YES: 67% NO: 27 What should happen to illegal immigrants who have been in the U.S. for at least two years? SHOULD BE DEPORTED: 33 SHOULD BE ALLOWED TO APPLY FOR LEGAL STATUS: 62% (pg. A1) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Views on Immigration'' How serious a problem do you think the issue of illegal immigration is for the country right now? Very serious: 61% Not too serious: 6 Not serious: 1 Somewhat serious: 30 Should America welcome all immigrants, some but not others, or none at all? All: 24 Some: 48 None: 24 No opinion: 4 In the long run, will today's immigrants make American society better or worse, or will they have no overall effect? Better: 28 Worse: 48 No effect: 24 No opinion: 8 Do you think that most recent immigrants to the United States contribute to this country, or do most of them cause problems? Contribute: 57 Cause problems: 28 Both: 6 No opinion: 8 Do you think illegal immigrants coming to this country today take jobs away from American citizens, or do they mostly take jobs Americans don't want? Take jobs from citizens: 30 Take unwanted jobs: 59 Both: 9 No opinion: 3 Would a guest worker program increase or decrease illegal immigration? Increase:45 Decrease: 41 Neither: 5 No opinion: 8 Views on Iraq Do you think the United States should set a timetable for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq sometime in 2008? Should: 63% Should not: 34 No opinion: 3 Would you say that sending more than 20,000 additional U.S. troops to Iraq is making the situation in Iraq better, making it worse, or having no effect? Better: 20 Worse: 28 No impact: 50 No opinion: 4 Should Congress block all funding for the war in Iraq, allow funding as long as the Iraqi government meets benchmarks set by the U.S., or allow all funding for the war without any benchmark conditions? Block funding: 13 Fund with benchmarks: 69 Fund unconditionally: 15 No opinion: 3 Totals may not add to 100 percent because of rounding. Based on nationwide telephone interviews with 1,125 adults, conducted May 18-23. (pg. A16) Chart Would you favor or oppose a guest worker program?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (76%); QUALITY CONTROL (69%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



492 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Poll Shows View of Iraq War Is Most Negative Since Start

BYLINE: By DALIA SUSSMAN

 BODY:
Americans now view the war in Iraq more negatively than at any time since the invasion more than four years ago, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
 Sixty-one percent of Americans say the United States should have stayed out of Iraq and 76 percent say things are going badly there, including 47 percent who say things are going very badly, the poll found.
Still, the majority of Americans support continuing to finance the war as long as the Iraqi government meets specific goals. 
 President Bush's approval ratings remain near the lowest of his more than six years in office. Thirty percent approve of the job he is doing over all, while 63 percent disapprove. 
 More Americans -- 72 percent -- now say that ''generally things in the country are seriously off on the wrong track'' than at any other time since the Times/CBS News poll began asking the question in 1983. The number has slowly risen since January 2004. Then, 53 percent said the country was ''seriously off on the wrong track,'' and by January of this year it was 68 percent.
 Public support for the war has eroded. In January 2003, 64 percent of Americans said the United States did the right thing in taking military action in Iraq and 28 percent said the United States should have stayed out. The current numbers are nearly reversed, with 35 percent saying the United states did the right thing and 61 percent saying the country should have stayed out. In January of this year, 58 percent said the United States should have stayed out of Iraq and 38 percent said going in was the right thing.
 The nationwide telephone poll was conducted Friday through Wednesday with 1,125 adults. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points.
 A majority, 76 percent, including 51 percent of Republicans, say additional troops sent to Iraq this year by Mr. Bush either have had no impact or are making things worse. Twenty percent of all respondents say the increase is improving the situation. 
 Most Americans support a timetable for withdrawal. Sixty-three percent say the United States should set a date for withdrawing troops from Iraq sometime in 2008. 
 While troops are still in Iraq, Americans overwhelming support continuing to finance the war, though most want to do so with conditions. Thirteen percent want Congress to block all money for the war. 
 Sixty-nine percent, including 62 percent of Republicans, say Congress should allow financing, but on the condition that the United States sets benchmarks for progress and the Iraqi government meets those goals. Fifteen percent of all respondents want Congress to allow all financing for the war, no matter what. 
 The poll found Americans are more likely to trust the Democratic Party than the Republican Party to make the right decisions about the war in Iraq. Slightly more than half of those polled, 51 percent, said the Democratic Party was more likely than the Republican Party to make the right decisions about the war.
 More broadly, 53 percent of those polled say they have a favorable opinion of the Democratic Party, while 38 percent have a favorable view of the Republican Party. The Republican Party has not had a majority positive rating in Times/CBS News polls since December 2003. 
 As for Mr. Bush, 23 percent approve of his handling of the situation in Iraq, 72 percent disapprove; 25 percent approve of his handling of foreign policy, 65 percent disapprove; and 27 percent approve of his handling of immigration issues, while 60 percent disapprove. 
 On the economy, 36 percent approve of his handling of the issue, and 56 percent disapprove. In the campaign against terrorism, 42 percent approve, and 52 percent disapprove. How the Poll Was Conducted 
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted May 18 through May 23 with 1,125 adults throughout the United States. 
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country. The exchanges were chosen so as to ensure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population.
 Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey. 
 For purposes of analysis, blacks were oversampled in this poll. Phone numbers at which a black respondent had been interviewed in polls over the last three months were called again, and a random member of the household was interviewed. If that person was black, he or she was included in the oversample. All blacks were then weighted back to their proper proportion in the poll, according to the census.
 The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, marital status, age and education.
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all American adults. For smaller subgroups, the margin of sampling error is larger. Comparisons of results between polls also have a larger sampling error.
 In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
 Michael R. Kagay of Princeton, N.J., assisted The Times in its polling analysis. Complete questions and results are available at nytimes.com/polls. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 26, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about a New York Times/CBS News poll that measured opinion about the Iraq war misstated the date of the first Times/CBS News poll that included a question about whether the United States did the right thing in taking military action in Iraq. It was December 2003, not January 2003. (The war did not begin until March 2003.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); IRAQ WAR (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



493 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: The Catholic Boom

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The pope and many others speak for the thoroughly religious. Christopher Hitchens has the latest best seller on behalf of the antireligious. But who speaks for the quasi-religious?
 Quasi-religious people attend services, but they're bored much of the time. They read the Bible, but find large parts of it odd and irrelevant. They find themselves inextricably bound to their faith, but think some of the people who define it are nuts.
 Whatever the state of their ambivalent souls, quasi-religious people often drive history. Abraham Lincoln knew scripture line by line but never quite shared the faith that mesmerized him. Quasi-religious Protestants, drifting anxiously from the certainties of their old religion, built Victorian England. Quasi-religious Jews, climbing up from ancestral orthodoxy, helped shape 20th-century American culture. 
 And now we are in the midst of an economic boom among quasi-religious Catholics. A generation ago, Catholic incomes and economic prospects were well below the national average. They had much lower college completion rates than mainline Protestants. But the past few decades have seen enormous Catholic social mobility.
 According to Lisa Keister, a sociologist at Duke, non-Hispanic white Catholics have watched their personal wealth shoot upward. They have erased the gap that used to separate them from mainline Protestants.
 Or, as Keister writes in a journal article, ''Preliminary evidence indicates that whites who were raised in Catholic families are no longer asset-poor and may even be among the wealthiest groups of adults in the United States today.''
 How have they done it?
 Well, they started from their traditional Catholic cultural base. That meant, in the 1950s and early '60s, a strong emphasis on neighborhood cohesion and family, and a strong preference for obedience and solidarity over autonomy and rebellion.
 Then over the decades, the authority of the church weakened and young Catholics assimilated. Catholic values began to converge with Protestant values. Catholic adults were more likely to use contraceptives and fertility rates plummeted. They raised their children to value autonomy more and obedience less.
 The process created a crisis for the church, as it struggled to maintain authority over its American flock. But the shift was an economic boon to Catholics themselves. They found themselves in a quasi-religious sweet spot.
 On the one hand, modern Catholics have retained many of the traditional patterns of their ancestors -- high marriage rates, high family stability rates, low divorce rates. Catholic investors save a lot and favor low-risk investment portfolios. On the other hand, they have also become more individualistic, more future-oriented and less bound by neighborhood and extended family. They are now much better educated than their parents or grandparents, and much better educated than their family histories would lead you to predict. 
 More or less successfully, the children of white, ethnic, blue-collar neighborhoods have managed to adapt the Catholic communal heritage to the dynamism of a global economy. If this country was entirely Catholic, we wouldn't be having a big debate over stagnant wages and low social mobility. The problems would scarcely exist. Populists and various politicians can talk about the prosperity-destroying menace of immigration and foreign trade. But modern Catholics have created a hybrid culture that trumps it. 
 In fact, if you really wanted to supercharge the nation, you'd fill it with college students who constantly attend church, but who are skeptical of everything they hear there. For there are at least two things we know about flourishing in a modern society. 
 First, college students who attend religious services regularly do better than those that don't. As Margarita Mooney, a Princeton sociologist, has demonstrated in her research, they work harder and are more engaged with campus life. Second, students who come from denominations that encourage dissent are more successful, on average, than students from denominations that don't. 
 This embodies the social gospel annex to the quasi-religious creed: Always try to be the least believing member of one of the more observant sects. Participate in organized religion, but be a friendly dissident inside. Ensconce yourself in traditional moral practice, but champion piecemeal modernization. Submit to the wisdom of the ages, but with one eye open.
 The problem is nobody is ever going to write a book sketching out the full quasi-religious recipe for life. The message ''God is Great'' appeals to billions. Hitchens rides the best-seller list with ''God is Not Great.'' Nobody wants to read a book called ''God is Right Most of the Time.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (86%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (71%); GRANDPARENTS (69%); MARRIAGE (64%); GRADUATION RATES (52%); CONTRACEPTION (50%); FERTILITY RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



494 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; TROY JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Off the Back Of a Truck, And Healthy

BYLINE: By DENNIS GAFFNEY

DATELINE: TROY, N.Y. 

 BODY:
For the past month, Eric J. Krans has been driving a truck through the heart of this old industrial city, delivering much of what has vanished from the store shelves here over the past half-century -- fresh produce, from lettuce, carrots and collard greens to mangoes, plantains and pineapple. 
 ''There's the peaches everyone was wanting,'' said Carolyn Moses, 64, the first person to climb into the box truck one recent afternoon, as she poked around the wooden crates. Then she pulled open a refrigerated case and shouted to no one in particular, ''Tomatoes are 79 cents a pound, everyone.'' 
It is a new service, begun by a nonprofit organization, to promote healthier eating.
 What would seem to be a pretty mundane find by most shoppers' standards is anything but in downtown Troy and other poor urban neighborhoods in New York State where there are no supermarkets. 
 In Troy, about 10 miles north of Albany, for example, supermarkets are clustered on the outskirts, where the city begins to transform into suburbs. 
 According to an informal survey in 2005 by the Capital District Community Gardens, a nonprofit agency, not one of the seven urban neighborhoods in Troy and in nearby Schenectady and Albany that the Veggie Mobile serves had a supermarket within four miles. 
 That is why the organization established the Veggie Mobile, which cruises the streets on a rotating schedule three days a week, selling freshly grown local produce. On one additional day, it offers samples and gives away fresh fruit and vegetables, hoping to get people to expand their food choices.
 ''We're trying to give people in inner-city neighborhoods access to affordable fresh produce,'' said Amy Klein, executive director of the community gardens.
 Ms. Klein said she got the idea for the Veggie Mobile several years ago, after reading about a truck known as the People's Grocery that served healthy foods in poor neighborhoods in West Oakland, Calif. 
 ''I thought, 'We can do that with vegetables,' '' she said, ''because we're all about vegetables here.'' 
 She said the Veggie Mobile was a natural extension of the work done by her organization, which has attracted 3,000 families to grow fruits and vegetables in 46 community gardens in the Albany area. 
 Impressed by the notion, the State Department of Health provided a $500,000 grant over five years.
 As the Veggie Mobile drives through downtown Troy to its first stop, it passes a natural-foods store, a misnomer, in Mr. Krans's opinion. ''They sell dried fruits, nuts and supplements,'' he says. ''But fresh produce they do not have.'' And no supermarket. 
 Stephen Matthews, an associate professor of sociology at Pennsylvania State University who studies food landscapes, says sociologists call such places, whether urban or rural, ''food deserts,'' where, if there are any food stores, they are corner groceries, where produce is more expensive or nonexistent.
 Instead, Dr. Matthews said, residents of poor urban areas are surrounded by fast food restaurants, whose fare he said contributes to obesity and a host of other health problems.
 Ms. Klein of the community gardens said: ''As a nation, we're concerned with obesity, heart disease, diabetes. These health issues are tied to healthy eating. And we know our consumption of fruits and vegetables isn't what it needs to be.''
 As the Veggie Mobile pulled up to one of its scheduled stops, John F. Kennedy Towers, a housing development for the elderly, ''That's Life'' by Frank Sinatra blared from speakers mounted on the front.
 Like a grandson, Mr. Krans escorted people up the ramp into the truck and back down again, offering to carry their bags.
 In the first week, Ms. Klein said, there were about 50 customers a week, but in just a month the total number has grown to 400 a week, far beyond expectations. 
 ''It's getting crazier every time we do this,'' Mr. Krans said. ''Friends tell friends, neighbors tell neighbors.''
 Since the initial run, the selection of produce has been expanded in response to customers' requests.
 Last week, basil, pineapple, oranges, strawberries, mangoes and limes complemented the usual array of offerings.
 The plan is to sell produce from local farmers when it becomes available next month.
 ''We want to contribute to the local farm economy,'' Ms. Klein said.
 Many Kennedy Towers residents remember when bread and milk trucks, as well as vegetable merchants, cruised the streets, 50 and 60 years ago. ''This is the best thing that has happened at Kennedy Towers,'' said Lea Allen, 63. ''Everything is nice and fresh and reasonable.'' 
 The nearest grocery, just across the street, has a sign above the door: ''Groceries, Hot Food, Subs, Beer, Candy and Cigarettes.'' But it sells no fresh produce. 
 After an hour at Kennedy Towers, Mr. Krans headed for the second stop of the afternoon, the parking lot of Carroll Hill Elementary School in South Troy, where nearly two-thirds of the students qualify for free or reduced-cost lunches. 
 ''A lot of parents here don't have automobiles to get to a large grocery store or a farmer's market,'' said Casey Parker, the school's principal.
 The first week the Veggie Mobile parked at Carroll Hill, a neighborhood resident, Lori Filuta, predicted that children would be drawn to it as if it were stocked with ice cream.
 ''The parents work,'' Ms. Filuta said. ''But you'll see. The kids will be here buying fruit.'' 
 Soon, two regulars, Nick Mariano and Matthew Murray, both 12, showed up with enough change for a half-dozen oranges, which they wasted no time peeling and eating.
 Aimie Thorsey, the director of Hope 7, an after-school program at Carroll Hill, said she came each week with a dozen or so children who brought spare change from home.
 ''Each of them usually leaves with an apple or a banana,'' Ms. Thorsey said. One week, ''kiwi was a big hit.'' 
 Nine-year-old Billy recently tried his first mango. ''I liked it better than a banana,'' he said.
 Ms. Klein is pleased. ''Any way we can break down barriers to healthier foods,'' she said, ''aids people on their way to healthier lifestyles.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Veggie Mobile was at a school in Troy, N.Y., yesterday, one of its regular stops in an effort to get produce to areas without supermarkets. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); GARDENING (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); SOCIOLOGY (87%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (72%); FAMILY (68%); SUBURBS (68%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); NUTRITION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



495 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: 2nd Ave. Subway's Photo Op Cost the M.T.A. $89,000

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
How much is a little publicity worth? 
 For the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the answer would seem to be about $89,000.
That is the amount the authority spent on the April 12 groundbreaking ceremony it held for the Second Avenue subway, according to an accounting by the authority. Whether $89,000, a minuscule amount of the $4 billion budget for the subway project, seems like a lot or a little may depend on your perspective. In simple terms, it is the equivalent of about 1,171 30-day MetroCards.
 ''I object,'' said Randi Kornreich, who was waiting yesterday for a No. 6 train at 96th Street and Lexington Avenue. ''I'm a penny pincher, and I think any time they can save money they should and pass it along to the citizen who pays enough in taxes already.'' 
 She added, ''I'm not big on pomp and circumstance.''
 The cost of the event was relatively high because officials at the authority decided to hold it underground, beneath Second Avenue and 99th Street, in a short section of tunnel that had been dug for the long-planned subway line in the 1970s. 
 That meant construction crews had to clean the never-used tunnel with power-washing equipment and had to repair a decrepit stairway that descended from a street hatch. A stage was built underground, and additional stairways and platforms were constructed to get visitors safely to the ceremony site. The authority paid $61,000 to an outside contractor for the cleaning, renovations and stage building. 
 At the same time, workers from New York City Transit wired the tunnel and installed lighting and electrical hookups. That cost $16,000. 
 There were smaller costs as well. The authority gave the dignitaries and others who attended the groundbreaking a DVD of a short presentation on the project. It spent $1,500 to have 300 copies of the DVD made. 
 Guests also received a miniature miner's pick inscribed with the date. The 300 picks were from a company in Tucson, Ariz., at a cost of $1,500. 
 After a series of speeches, the climax of the ceremony came when Gov. Eliot Spitzer and other dignitaries used shiny steel brick hammers to knock a hole in a concrete panel affixed to the tunnel wall, as photographers and television crews crowded around. The authority did not include the 11 new hammers used at the event in its accounting of the groundbreaking costs, but they sell for about $20 each on Amazon.com. 
 Other costs included $6,000 for authority police officers to provide security and $3,000 to install and operate the audio-visual system.
 ''The groundbreaking ceremony for the Second Avenue subway was a historic event that won't be forgotten by those in attendance and the thousands of New Yorkers who watched on live television,'' Jeremy Soffin, a spokesman for the authority, said yesterday in a statement. ''Costs were incurred to hold a safe event in such a unique setting, but we believe it is important to expose the public to our infrastructure to better understand the transit system that drives the regional economy.''
 The ceremony was the kickoff to construction on the first phase of the subway line, which will have stops on Second Avenue at 96th, 86th and 72nd Streets, and at Lexington Avenue and 63rd Street, and will connect to tracks of the Q line. 
 The authority and the various transit agencies that preceded it have been trying to build a Second Avenue subway since the 1920s, and the April groundbreaking was at least the fourth for the subway line. The earlier groundbreakings were held in the 1970s. 
 That long history of frustration softened the views of at least one straphanger yesterday. 
 ''It's a bit excessive,'' Richard Zalk, 64, a lawyer who was waiting for a train yesterday at 96th Street, said of the groundbreaking cost. ''I don't have strong feelings on it either way. If they get the thing done, hallelujah.'' 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Cost Breakdown'' An approximate tally of costs, about $89,000 in all, for the April 12 groundbreaking for the Second Avenue subway: Tunnel cleanup/underground stage: $61,000 Lighting/electrical: 16,000 Security: 6,000 Audio-visual system: 3,000 Souvenir DVD: 1,500 Souvenir pickaxes: 1,500 (Source by MTA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (51%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



496 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: For New York, Big Job Growth Is in Home Care

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
New York City's economy has been booming, with unemployment dropping to historic lows and Wall Street getting most of the credit. But the typical new worker in the city is not a pinstriped investment banker or a corporate lawyer. She is a home health aide like Vivienne P. Smith. 
 Ms. Smith, a recent immigrant from Jamaica, cooks for and dresses elderly patients in their Brooklyn homes. Though she is a member of a large labor union, she earns just $7.50 an hour and receives no health insurance or other benefits.
 In many ways, home-care aides are the garment workers of the modern New York economy. The working conditions may be better, but the low pay, skimpy benefits and weak prospects for upward mobility tend to draw mostly immigrant women with few marketable skills. 
 Jobs like Ms. Smith's, poor-paying positions in health care and social services, have accounted for most of the growth in employment in the city in the last 15 years. Indeed, without the rapid health care growth, the number of jobs in the city would have declined since 1990, according to figures compiled by the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 The health care and social assistance sector, which includes not only hospitals, nursing homes and doctor's offices, but also day care centers and food banks, accounts for a growing share of jobs across the country -- about 13 percent of all American jobs in 2005. But that is still a far smaller share than in some parts of New York City. In Brooklyn and the Bronx, the sector now supplies about one-third of all private-sector jobs and wages, more than double the contribution of any other industry, the bureau's data show.
 ''In terms of wages, the driving force in the New York City economy has been Wall Street,'' said Michael Dolfman, the regional commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. ''But in terms of employment, the driving force in the city economy has been the health care and social assistance sector.''
 The number of jobs in financial services has shrunk in the last 15 years, even as average pay has soared in that industry. 
 The relative growth of health care employment in New York and other big American cities is a result of the decline of manufacturing and the aging of the population, said Mark V. Pauly, a health-care economist at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. At the same time, personal preferences and financial considerations have fostered a shift toward caring for the frail and elderly at home instead of in institutions, Mr. Pauly said. 
 Many of the patients of the home-care aides now working in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx are retired from the factories that formed the streetscapes of those boroughs half a century ago. With many of those shuttered plants having been transformed into high-priced housing, health services are playing larger roles in the local economy.
 That growing dependence on a single sector worries some economists, particularly because its fortunes are largely tied to government programs like Medicare.
 ''I look at that and I think it's expanding a sweatshop form of work with very low wages, very few benefits,'' said James Parrott, chief economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonprofit organization financed in part by unions, referring to the rising employment in home care. 
 For most of those jobs, wages are low and rising slowly. In Brooklyn's growing health-care sector, home-care employment more than quadrupled to 12,160 jobs between 1990 and 2005, the last full year for which data was available. On average, those jobs pay $27,413 a year. 
 Ms. Smith, 55, said she would not be able to survive on her meager pay if she were not living with relatives. She started out working full weeks and even some overtime. But lately, her employer, Partners in Care, a subsidiary of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, has assigned her just one four-hour shift per day, she said. That amounts to just $30 a day, before taxes and the cost of her two-bus commute across Brooklyn.
 ''Sometimes, my pay just goes to buying something to eat and paying my fare,'' said Ms. Smith, who added that she was no better off financially than when she was working in factories in Jamaica. ''When you're small and you're talking about going abroad, the thought of it gets you excited. Then, when you come and see for yourself, you say, 'Oh dear, it's just the same.' ''
 Kevin Finnegan, a lawyer for the home-care division of 1199 United Healthcare Workers East, the health care workers' union, said home health aides were paid less in New York City than in most other parts of the country. 
 ''I believe that is a direct result of this huge immigrant population that is willing to work for lower wages,'' he said. ''For the same reason, the garment industry was here.''
 Mr. Finnegan, who helped the union organize the home-care aides working for Partners in Care, said that in some places upstate, home-care aides had been able to demand as much as $12 an hour. ''You leave New York City and the rates go up,'' he said.
 But Mr. Finnegan said some relief was on the way for many of the 43,000 home-care workers who are represented by the union. The contract with Partners in Care calls for raises to as much as $10 an hour this year, he said.
 Karlyne A. Mills is dubious. A veteran home-care aide who immigrated from Haiti, Ms. Mills, who has worked at the job for 13 years, is still earning $8.30 an hour almost a year after she was supposed to get a raise to $9, she said. She receives about $300 before taxes for working three 12-hour shifts a week caring for a Brooklyn woman who needs to be bathed, fed and lifted in and out of her wheelchair.
 ''It's getting a little frustrating waiting because we're working hard,'' said Ms. Mills, who lives in her mother's home in East New York. ''From the time that I became a home health aide, I always wondered why this job is so important and why our pay is so low.'' 
 But Ms. Mills, 43, said she stayed with the work because she enjoyed helping people. For the first six years, she earned just $6 an hour, she said. For most of her career, she has gone without health insurance coverage for her daughter, now a sophomore in college, or her son, a high school senior, she said.
 Having to take her children to a hospital as charity cases whenever they needed to see a doctor was ''very horrible,'' Ms. Mills said. She would like a job that provides health insurance for her whole family, but at the moment, she said, she would settle for that raise to $10 an hour. 
 Jay Conolly, director of human resources for Partners in Care, said the pay raises hinged on the release by the State Legislature of an additional $100 million in funding that was recently approved. Mr. Conolly said his company wanted to keep its workers happy because ''we are in a growth mode, and the demand for home care has never been stronger.''
 That growth should continue for years, said Mr. Pauly of the Wharton School, unless the government sharply curtails spending on health care.
 ''People who want to get control of health care spending should be careful what they wish for,'' Mr. Pauly said. ''Spending less on health care would actually be harmful to the local economy because it's a good source of jobs.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Karlyne A. Mills, a home-care aide for 13 years, says she likes helping people but is discouraged by the low pay and lack of benefits. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B6) Graph: ''Job Growth in the Health Sector'' Jobs in health care and social services have accounted for most of the growth in employment in New York City in the last 15 years. Graph tracks total workers in health care and social services in the Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan ,Queens, and Staten Island. Health and socialservice jobs as a percentage of all private-sector jobs Graph tracks Average annual pay (adjusted for inflation) for all health care and home health services. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); HOME HEALTH CARE (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); AGING (76%); AGING TRENDS (76%); NURSING HOMES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); APPAREL MFG (70%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (68%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (68%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); FOOD CHARITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



497 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: More Than Ever, It Pays to Be the Top Executive

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Like most companies, Office Depot has long made sure that its chief executive was the highest-paid employee. Ten years ago, the $2.2 million pay package of its chief was more than double that of his No. 2. The fifth-ranked executive received less than one-third. 
 But the incentive for reaching the very top of the company is now far greater. Steve Odland, who runs Office Depot today, made almost $12 million last year, more than four times the compensation of the second-highest-paid executive and over six times that of the fifth-ranking executive in the current hierarchy.
As executive pay has surged in most American companies, attention has focused on the growing gap between the earnings of top executives and the average wage of workers in cubicles or on the shop floor. Little noticed, though, is how much the gap has also widened between the summit and the next few echelons down. 
 ''It's executive pay chasing executive pay,'' said Mark Van Clieaf, managing director of MVC Associates International, a consulting firm that develops compensation plans. ''But nobody looked at the issue of internal pay equity, so the disparity just kept getting bigger.''
 Few are deprived in corporate suites, of course. But the widening disparities in business, which show up in a variety of other ways, reflect a dynamic that is taking hold across the economy: the growing concentration of wealth and income among a select group at the pinnacle of success, leaving many others with similar talents and experience well behind.
 In the 1960s and '70s, chief executives running the nation's biggest companies earned 80 percent more, on average, than the third-highest-paid executives, according to a recent study by Carola Frydman of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Raven E. Saks at the Federal Reserve. By the early part of this decade, the gap in the executive suite between No. 1 and No. 3 had swollen to 260 percent.
 Many experts argue that chief executives have a particular ability to drive their own pay upward, in part by manipulating directors they work closely with and encouraging the use of consulting firms that have a built-in incentive to increase pay packages for those who hire them. 
 ''There's a sense that the C.E.O.'s pay is not determined by supply and demand,'' said Robert J. Gordon, a professor of economics at Northwestern University. 
 There is some truth to that, but economists who have recently studied the issue contend that basic economic forces still play a big role in determining pay at the very top of the corporate ladder. It just happens to be working to the advantage of an increasingly narrow slice of business leaders.
 The pay of chief executives, analysts say, is being driven by superstar dynamics similar to those that determine the inordinate rewards for pop stars and athletes -- a phenomenon first explained by Sherwin Rosen of the University of Chicago in 1981 and underlined more than a decade ago by the economists Robert H. Frank and Philip J. Cook in their book ''The Winner-Take-All Society'' (Free Press, 1995).
 As American companies, American hedge funds -- and even American lawsuits -- have grown in size, it has become ever more valuable to get the ''best'' chief executive or fund manager or litigator. This has fueled a fierce competition for talent at the top, which has pushed economic rewards farther up the ladder of success, concentrating the richest pay levels even more. 
 ''There is an interaction between technology and scale which is true in all these businesses,'' said Steven N. Kaplan, a finance professor at the Graduate School of Business of the University of Chicago. ''One person can oversee more assets, and this translates into more money.''
 The gap in executive pay is widening even at companies that once had more even-handed practices. At Wal-Mart, for instance, the top executive 10 years ago made some 40 percent more than his second in command. Last year, H. Lee Scott, the chief executive, received more than twice as much as his chief administrative officer, John B. Menzer. 
 ''Wal-Mart was under the influence of its founder for so long, and he had a different set of values than the current managers,'' said Graef S. Crystal, a leading expert on executive pay. ''He was much more egalitarian. These are professional managers.'' 
 The changing rewards for corporate executives are not unlike the acute concentration of wealth among entertainment industry superstars, with television, the globalization of movie audiences and the spread of digital technologies having allowed those at the very top to generate enormous incomes at the expense of those that might be slightly less popular. 
 Alan B. Krueger, a Princeton economist, found that the share of concert ticket revenue taken by the top 1 percent of pop stars -- measured by sales per concert -- rose to 56 percent in 2003 from 26 percent in 1982.
 Similarly, the best-paid baseball player 20 years ago, Gary Carter, earned $2.4 million from the New York Mets, 41 percent more than the 25th-ranked, Tim Raines of the Montreal Expos. This season, the $28 million, pro rated, that the Yankees will pay Roger Clemens is more than double the paycheck of David Ortiz of the Boston Red Sox, who is 24 rungs down. 
 This even more skewed pattern at and near the top of the income ladder has become a sort of national standard. From 1985 to 2005, the incomes of taxpayers in the top 10th of earnings rose about 54 percent after inflation, to an average of $207,200, according to Thomas Piketty of the Paris School of Economics and Emmanuel Saez of the University of California, Berkeley.
 But among the top 1 percent of taxpayers it increased 128 percent, to $812,500. And among the top 0.01 percent it nearly quadrupled, to $14 million on average. 
 Corporate executives, for all the attention they have drawn, are far from a majority of the superwealthy. Mr. Gordon and Ian Dew-Becker at the National Bureau of Economic Research estimated that executives accounted for 20 percent of the income in the top 0.01 percent of the scale. Others put their share lower -- around 8.5 percent.
 As for the gap between C.E.O. pay and that of executives working under them, one reason may be that the larger share of stock options in top executives' compensation packages these days makes the gap widen when the market is rising, as it was in the late 1990s and generally these days. By contrast, it narrowed somewhat in the first years of the decade, when equity prices fell.
 Still, that does not fully explain the current situation, fueling the debate over runaway executive pay. Standard views tend to splinter between corporate apologists, who say that top executives have tougher jobs and are more deserving than in the past, and critics who accuse many of them, in essence, of doing little more than larding their pay at the expense of stockholders.
 At Office Depot, a spokesman, Brian Levine, said, ''We usually don't comment on our executive compensation other than to say all our programs are linked directly to performance.''
 Mr. Scott of Wal-Mart, at a recent lunch with reporters, argued that his pay had shot up in relation to the rest of the executive pack in part because today's chief has a much more demanding job than a decade ago.
 ''As we enter a world that is more complex, the company places value on things that go beyond the running of the business,'' Mr. Scott said. ''There are aspects of interfacing with the external world that are more like running a presidential campaign than running a business.''
 But a number of economists argue that the steep growth of executive pay has less to do with the complexities of the job and more with the competition for talent among American companies. 
 Kevin J. Murphy, a professor of finance at the University of Southern California, said that in the 1970s, fewer than 10 percent of chief executives were hired from outside and most of those were brought in to save a company in distress.
 Since then, he argued, generalist executive skills have become more valuable to companies than expertise in whatever the company does, leading to fewer businesses' promoting executives from within. By 2000, more than a third of all new chiefs were brought in from outside.
 As a result, more C.E.O.'s find themselves in the enviable position of being pursued by competing suitors. And this type of market does not exist to the same extent for executives one or two notches down.
 ''A really successful C.E.O. can have a significant impact on the stock price,'' said Joseph E. Bachelder, a tax lawyer who advises firms on executive pay, ''and I'm not sure I can say the same is true generally about the C.F.O. or a general counsel.''
 As companies grow and expand globally, the value of the top executive can grow exponentially. In a study last year, two economists, Xavier Gabaix of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Augustin Landier of New York University, argued that the fast rise in pay of corporate C.E.O.'s mostly reflected the growing size of American corporations. 
 Processing reams of data, the economists estimated that hiring the most effective chief executive in the country would, statistically, increase the stock value of a company by only 0.016 percent, compared with hiring the 250th chief executive. But at a company like General Electric, which is worth about $380 billion, that tiny difference would amount to $60 million. 
 This, the economists argued, helps explain why that top chief executive earned five times as much as the 250th. ''Substantial firm size leads to the economics of superstars, translating small differences in ability to very large deviations in pay,'' the economists wrote.
 But all the attention on chief executives as business superstars raises new questions. In a report published last year, Moody's Investors Service said it would start taking into account the difference in pay within an executive team in its bond ratings. 
 ''It raises issues of key-person risk and of whether the C.E.O. has too much authority,'' said Mark Watson, managing director of the corporate governance group at Moody's. ''We are rating the company, not the person. A bus might come by and knock the person over.'' 

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''The Pay Gap at the Top'' The growing compensation of chief executives at big companies has opened up the gap between them and their top subordinates. The trend is apparent at companies like Office Depot. Graph tracks average pay of the top executive at the 50 largest companies, adjusted for inflation since 1994. Graph tracks percentage of top executives' compensation at the 50 largest companies paid to . . .: Fifth-highest paid executives Third-highest paid executives Graph tracks percentage of the top executive's compensation at Office Depot paid to . . .: No. 2 executive No. 3 No. 4 No. 5 (Sources by Standard & Poor's Execucomp
 Carola Frydman, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Raven E. Saks, Federal Reserve)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); RANKINGS (90%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%)

PERSON: STEVE ODLAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



498 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: In Market, Hopes for Health and Urban Renewal

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
It seems that anyone you talk to in the streets around Progress Plaza, a tattered shopping center in a mainly black, poor part of North Philadelphia, is excited. 
 There has not been a supermarket nearby since the last one in the plaza suddenly shut down in 1999, part of a nationwide flight from blighted urban areas by many large chains.
 But soon a large Fresh Grocer supermarket is set to open here. 
 ''Everybody will be so happy to see a new store,'' said Anna Keller, a retired nurse's aide, as she took home a large bag of items from Popeyes, the fast-food chicken restaurant, in the plaza. In the last seven years, Ms. Keller said, she has driven miles away to shop ''because the food around here isn't worth buying.'' But that also means that she has shopped less frequently and often relied on takeout. 
 ''I know I'll eat better,'' she said, talking about the ready access to aisles of fresh produce and meats. ''I know this greasy food is killing me.''
 Carol Smith, 50, who sat on the stoop of her apartment in a rundown row house, minding her five grandchildren, said she felt the same way. Like many of her neighbors, Ms. Smith does not drive, and she has been walking the 12 blocks to the nearest grocery store, then paying a livery car to drive her back. ''It's hard to keep real fresh things around,'' she said. 
 Depopulation and the loss of industrial jobs in recent decades have taken an especially harsh toll in this neighborhood. They left row houses abandoned or in disrepair, and vacant lots strewn with trash, broken whiskey pints and hypodermic needles. Progress Plaza, which was founded with great hopes in the 1960s by an association of black residents, fell on hard times. Even mom-and-pop stores are rare. 
 Subsidized development is starting to bring in new houses and families, a longtime development of black-owned homes has survived to the east of the plaza, and nearby Temple University is expanding. But still, within a half-mile radius of the plaza, 39 percent of people live below the poverty line, more than twice the rate for Philadelphia over all.
 Whether easy access to the bounties of a supermarket will actually transform eating habits remains to be seen, but the fight against obesity has become a major rationale, along with lower prices and the promotion of wider retail development, for efforts to bring supermarkets to what have been called the food deserts of poor urban areas. 
 The National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences has sponsored a before-and-after study of eating habits around the future supermarket here, looking especially to see if consumption of fresh fruits and vegetables, rather than chips and soda, will rise. 
 The new grocery store is part of a broader renovation of the plaza, aided by millions in public and private loans. The store was lured here by the Fresh Food Financing Initiative, which has subsidized development of two dozen supermarkets in deprived urban and rural areas of Pennsylvania and is considered a national model. The Legislature put up seed money and joined forces with the Food Trust, a private group that promotes healthy diets, and the Reinvestment Fund, which marshals money for community development. The initiative provides cash grants of up to $250,000 and, sometimes, millions of dollars in loans to prospective supermarket developers. 
 In the case of Progress Plaza, inducements were needed in part because the lot of the former store, at 18,000 square feet, was far too small for today's supermarket model, said Pat Burns, who owns other stores in the city and will operate the new one here. Most of the plaza is being rebuilt to make room for a flashy 46,000-square-foot market with rooftop parking. 
 More generally, supermarket operators say, moving into a blighted neighborhood brings special costs and risks that can be partly overcome through subsidies and advice from groups like the Food Trust. 
 Jeff Brown said he was encouraged to build a ShopRite in another part of Philadelphia by a $250,000 grant from the Food Initiative, which he used to train local workers, many of whom had never held real jobs. 
 Store operators in poor areas say they have substantially higher security costs and, in contrast to suburban chains that carry essentially the same inventories in all stores, they must stock a variety of lower-volume items geared to multiethnic tastes. Because many customers are poor, a new store must be in a heavily populated area with convenient public transportation if it is to be profitable, they said. 
 On Broad Street, the supermarket and plaza will have 24-hour lighting, and ''that will do a lot for the sense of safety and community in the neighborhood,'' said Wendell R. Whitlock, chairman of the association that owns Progress Plaza and has received loans for the overhaul. ''This is going to be a happening,'' Mr. Whitlock said of the new store, and should give a boost to the area's renewal. 
 When Pathmark opened the first supermarket in decades in East Harlem, in 1999, many local store owners were fearful. But by drawing in more shoppers, the entire neighborhood was uplifted, local residents and economists say. 
 Around Progress Plaza, no one admits to being worried. 
 Taufiiq Colbert, who just opened a barbershop west of Broad Street, said he expected the increased foot traffic to help his own struggling business. 
 Even Alexander Faynberg, who has for years sold a small sampling of fruits, nuts and eggs from a truck next to Progress Plaza, said he welcomed a new store. ''It will bring in a lot of people,'' Mr. Faynberg said. ''It will be good for me.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carol Smith says she looks forward to having fresh food closer than the 12 blocks she now has to walk.
 Alexander Faynberg says he expects his food vending business will improve as Progress Plaza is renovated. (Photographs by Mike Mergen for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); FAST FOOD (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); CHILDREN (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); NUTRITION (72%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); WALKING & JOGGING (70%); OBESITY (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); POVERTY RATES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



499 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants and Politics

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
A piece of advice for progressives trying to figure out where they stand on immigration reform: it's the political economy, stupid. Analyzing the direct economic gains and losses from proposed reform isn't enough. You also have to think about how the reform would affect the future political environment. 
 To see what I mean -- and why the proposed immigration bill, despite good intentions, could well make things worse -- let's take a look back at America's last era of mass immigration. 
My own grandparents came to this country during that era, which ended with the imposition of severe immigration restrictions in the 1920s. Needless to say, I'm very glad they made it in before Congress slammed the door. And today's would-be immigrants are just as deserving as Emma Lazarus's ''huddled masses, yearning to breathe free.''
 Moreover, as supporters of immigrant rights rightly remind us, everything today's immigrant-bashers say -- that immigrants are insufficiently skilled, that they're too culturally alien, and, implied though rarely stated explicitly, that they're not white enough -- was said a century ago about Italians, Poles and Jews. 
 Yet then as now there were some good reasons to be concerned about the effects of immigration. 
 There's a highly technical controversy going on among economists about the effects of recent immigration on wages. However that dispute turns out, it's clear that the earlier wave of immigration increased inequality and depressed the wages of the less skilled. For example, a recent study by Jeffrey Williamson, a Harvard economic historian, suggests that in 1913 the real wages of unskilled U.S. workers were around 10 percent lower than they would have been without mass immigration. But the straight economics was the least of it. Much more important was the way immigration diluted democracy. 
 In 1910, almost 14 percent of voting-age males in the United States were non-naturalized immigrants. (Women didn't get the vote until 1920.) Add in the disenfranchised blacks of the Jim Crow South, and what you had in America was a sort of minor-key apartheid system, with about a quarter of the population -- in general, the poorest and most in need of help -- denied any political voice. 
 That dilution of democracy helped prevent any effective response to the excesses and injustices of the Gilded Age, because those who might have demanded that politicians support labor rights, progressive taxation and a basic social safety net didn't have the right to vote. Conversely, the restrictions on immigration imposed in the 1920s had the unintended effect of paving the way for the New Deal and sustaining its achievements, by creating a fully enfranchised working class. 
 But now we're living in the second Gilded Age. And as before, one of the things making antiworker, unequalizing policies politically possible is the fact that millions of the worst-paid workers in this country can't vote. What progressives should care about, above all, is that immigration reform stop our drift into a new system of de facto apartheid.
 Now, the proposed immigration reform does the right thing in principle by creating a path to citizenship for those already here. We're not going to expel 11 million illegal immigrants, so the only way to avoid having those immigrants be a permanent disenfranchised class is to bring them into the body politic. 
 And I can't share the outrage of those who say that illegal immigrants broke the law by coming here. Is that any worse than what my grandfather did by staying in America, when he was supposed to return to Russia to serve in the czar's army? 
 But the bill creates a path to citizenship so torturous that most immigrants probably won't even try to legalize themselves. Meanwhile, the bill creates a guest worker program, which is exactly what we don't want to do. Yes, it would raise the income of the guest workers themselves, and in narrow financial terms guest workers are a good deal for the host nation -- because they don't bring their families, they impose few costs on taxpayers. But it formally creates exactly the kind of apartheid system we want to avoid. 
 Progressive supporters of the proposed bill defend the guest worker program as a necessary evil, the price that must be paid for business support. Right now, however, the price looks too high and the reward too small: this bill could all too easily end up actually expanding the class of disenfranchised workers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); HISTORY (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



500 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: Capitalist Roaders

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Food Safety Joins Issues at U.S.-China Talks'' (Business Day, May 23):
Your recent articles about China's economic growth and product woes draw a parallel to the American experience during the late 19th century and early 20th century. In a dizzying rush to profiteer and modernize, capitalists disregard the probability that what workers lose on the plant floor could later be discovered by consumers in the kitchen. Quan Nguyen San Diego, May 23, 2007 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); FOOD SAFETY (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



501 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Slim for Summer: Good Reading, but Less

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Writers Take Out Their Knives'' (Week in Review, May 20):
Jonathan Franzen's suggestion for trimming the title of George Eliot's masterpiece down to ''Shortmarch'' may have been facetious, but this sort of surgery actually did occur at a high school overseas where I used to teach literature. 
 After a colleague assigned only every other chapter of a John Steinbeck novel, cutting the social commentary to keep the Joad family narrative intact, we had retitled it ''The Grape of Wrath,'' and contemplated downsizing the rest of the syllabus to match: ''Catch-21,'' ''Invisible Boy,'' and, inevitably, ''Twenty-Five Years of Solitude.'' Daniel Pollack-Pelzner Cambridge, Mass., May 20, 2007 To the Editor:
 Every other year or so, I take hold of my beloved copy of ''A Confederacy of Dunces,'' by John Kennedy Toole, and with pencil in hand, I cross out repetitious lines and passages, slowly slimming the book. 
 I keep a list of friends who have tried to read this brilliant novel but have gotten bogged down to the point of stopping. After my sacrilegious chopping and slicing is finished, I plan to send the book to these friends, who, less encumbered, I hope will find as much profound enjoyment as I do from this American masterpiece. Steve Hermanos San Francisco, May 20, 2007 To the Editor:
 As summer reading lists beckon, surely The Times owes its younger readers better than Joyce Carol Oates's dismissal of Jane Austen's alleged ''too many descriptions of furniture and balls and ballroom gowns.''
 Austen's fans admire her economy of description of physical objects; any first-year English student has learned that Austen uses things only when necessary for characterization. 
 I hope that this will encourage your readers, who lack demanding publication schedules of their own, to use the summer to actually look into a Jane Austen novel. Kate Ward Chicago, May 21, 2007 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Thuss Farrell) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



502 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Early Edition

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Growth Expected to Cool, Falling Below Pace in Europe

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, May 24 

 BODY:
Economic growth in Europe and Japan is expected to outpace that in the United States this year for the first time since 2001, as a slowdown in the American housing market curbs growth, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said Thursday. 
 The forecast by the agency, which is based in Paris and has representatives from the 30 richest countries, suggests that the world can weather a cooling in the United States, the globe's largest economy. Demand is robust in China and India, and growth elsewhere is strong, it said.
''The current economic situation is in many ways better than what we have experienced in years,'' Jean-Philippe Cotis, the organization's chief economist, said.
 The group cut its forecast for growth in America's gross domestic product this year to 2.1 percent, down from the 2.4 percent it had predicted in November. Last year's growth rate in the United States was 3.3 percent. Next year, however, growth should begin to rebound to 2.5 percent, it said.
 Across the Atlantic, the 13 countries sharing the euro are likely to grow 2.7 percent, the organization said, an improvement over a 2.2 percent forecast of six months ago. Last year's growth rate was 2.8 percent.
 Growth in the euro-zone countries has been led by a sharp improvement in the German economy, the largest in Europe, and the unexpected resilience of the euro, which recently reached record highs against the United States dollar and the Japanese yen.
 Meanwhile, Japan, the second-largest economy after the United States, is enjoying a sharp upswing, the agency said. It lifted its forecast for growth in Japan this year to 2.4 percent, from a 2 percent forecast in November.
 China and India, which are not organization members, are likely to continue enjoying robust growth rates, the agency said. It expects China to continue to expand at more than 10 percent this year and next, and India to grow at 8.5 percent this year and 8 percent in 2008. 
 The strength in Europe and elsewhere carries benefits for the global economy as a whole, which is proving to be less dependent on the United States than many economists believed even at the end of last year.
 But the picture of a healthier Europe and a weaker United States stems from a confluence of factors and probably does not portend a long-term trend, economists said.
 American growth has dropped as housing inventories have piled up and mortgage defaults have risen, Mr. Cotis said. But he said that with job growth still strong, economic recovery in the United States ''should provide the basis for a sustained return to economic normality.''
 By contrast, it is unclear whether Europe has managed to raise what economists call the long-term growth potential -- the rate at which an economy can grow without rising inflation.
 Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, has put that rate at 2.25 percent to 2.3 percent, below the roughly 2.5 percent that most economists say is the potential for the American economy.
 Potential growth rates rise as labor forces expand or productivity rises. Europe still faces the problem that its immigration and birthrates are not as high as those of the United States, said Julian Callow, chief European economist for Barclays Capital in London. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); TRENDS (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); EURO ZONE (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); EURO (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); JAPAN (94%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007



503 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Congress Passes Increase In the Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24 

 BODY:
Congress handed a major victory to low-income workers on Thursday night by approving the first increase in the federal minimum wage rate in a decade.
 By a vote of 348 to 73, the House approved the measure as part of a deal on Iraq spending. Less than two hours later, the wage increase was approved in the Senate, where it was combined with a bill providing more money for the Iraq war. That vote was 80 to 14.
The measure would raise the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour from $5.15 in three stages over two years. The bill includes $4.84 billion in tax breaks for small businesses. They have made a case, supported by Republicans and the White House, that the wage increase would be a burden for them. 
 President Bush said he would sign the measure as part of the bigger spending package that had been negotiated between Democratic lawmakers and the administration.
 After the bill is signed, the wage increase will become the first item in the ''Six for '06'' agenda of the new Congressional Democratic leadership to become law. 
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, said the increase was overdue.
 ''After 10 years of indifference,'' Ms. Pelosi said, ''we are raising wages for the hardest-working Americans.'' 
 The House and Senate approved the increase months ago in different packages, but it stalled over disagreements about the tax breaks. Republicans had sought larger tax breaks for businesses.
 The minimum wage was an important sweetener for Democrats in dealing with the larger package, which includes money for the military in Iraq and Afghanistan and which had been delayed by a partisan battle over imposing a timetable to reduce troop levels in Iraq. 
 Although more than half the states have higher minimum wages than the existing federal rate, the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group, estimates that 4 percent of the work force, or 5.6 million workers, earns less than $7.25 an hour. 
 President Bill Clinton signed the last increase in 1997. Seven states now have minimum wages higher than $7.25 an hour.
 A number of business interests lobbied strongly against the increase. One group, the National Restaurant Association, said the last increase led to a reduction of 146,000 jobs in the industry and prompted owners to postpone plans to hire an additional 106,000 workers.
 The House debate over the wage was limited, as most lawmakers spent their floor time arguing over Iraq spending.
 Representative John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio and the House minority leader, criticized the wage provision along with a set of domestic spending measures attached to what was viewed as ''must pass legislation.''
 ''We've got a host of issues that don't deserve to be put on the backs of the military,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''It's a sneaky way to do business.''
 Democrats countered that Congress had waited too long and that many workers had suffered because of the lower rate.
 ''Wages have been unconscionably frozen for the last decade'' said Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. 
 Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee, estimated that in the first year that the full increase would take effect, it would provide a family of three with money to buy an additional 15 months of groceries.
 In addition to the tax breaks, the Iraq spending bill had benefits for businesses. Major airline carriers, for example, successfully lobbied for a provision to relieve them of some pension liabilities.
 The National Association of Manufacturers succeeded in having a provision stricken that would have blocked federal officials from lowering tougher state safety standards for chemical plants. 
 The bill includes $6.3 billion more for areas damaged by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, $600 million for health insurance for children in low-income families and $3 billion for aid in farm disasters. 
 The White House had opposed many of the domestic spending provisions, which totaled $22 billion. Republicans managed to remove some of them shortly before the bill reached the floor, including $660 million to stockpile medicine for a flu pandemic and $400 million for energy assistance for low-income families. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative John A. Boehner criticized the wage provision. (Photo by Susan Walsh/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); LOBBYING (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); LIBERALISM (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); NANCY PELOSI (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



504 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Officials Extol Benefits of U.S. Relations

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24 

 BODY:
Chinese leaders traveled from the White House to Capitol Hill on Thursday, trying to persuade skeptics of the benefits of the Chinese-American relationship. But they appeared to make little headway in quelling Congressional anger over China's economic practices.
 The delegation, led by Vice Premier Wu Yi, who was invited here by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., spent its time marshaling arguments that trade with China benefited Americans and warning that Congressional sanctions would disrupt the chances of resolving disagreements amicably. 
The Chinese also made promises to invest in American businesses, declaring their hope that a recent ''large-scale procurement and investment mission'' in the United States -- which they said had led to investments of $32.6 billion in 25 cities and 24 states -- would impress Americans.
 The purchase by China this week of a $3 billion nonvoting stake in the private equity firm Blackstone Group was cited as part of that investment drive.
 But it was not clear whether China's buying spree would help it gain political support in the United States. The purchases could even result in the opposite -- assertions by lawmakers that such aggressive acquisitions raise national security concerns. Two years ago, China provoked near-universal criticism in Congress when Cnooc, a state-owned oil company, tried to purchase Unocal for $18 billion.
 The investment drive has not provoked such a strong reaction. But after a session Thursday afternoon with Ms. Wu, Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the Senate majority leader, suggested that Congress remained prepared to approve legislation to impose trade sanctions against China. 
 ''Both the U.S. and Chinese economies will be better off with a more healthy and balanced relationship,'' Mr. Reid said. ''If China and the Bush administration won't take action to bring about more balance, there is growing sentiment in Congress to act.''
 His comments echoed those of the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and other Democrats on Wednesday.
 Earlier Thursday, Ms. Wu met with President Bush at the White House, a counterpart to Mr. Paulson's meeting with President Hu Jintao of China last December.
 Mr. Bush, at his Rose Garden news conference, emphasized several divisive issues between the United States and China left unresolved after two days of talks between Mr. Paulson and Ms. Wu and their respective teams. 
 He mentioned the American charge that China intervenes in currency markets to keep the value of its currency low in order to promote exports by making them cheaper to American consumers.
 ''One of the issues that I emphasized to Madam Wu Yi, as well as the delegation, was that we're watching very carefully as to whether or not they will appreciate their currency,'' Mr. Bush said.
 He added that ''we value our relationship'' but that the trade deficit with China, which was $232 billion last year, ''must be addressed'' at least in part by China allowing the value of its currency to rise.
 The delegation of 15 ministers led by Ms. Wu was in Washington for the second session of a ''strategic economic dialogue'' established last year by Mr. Paulson to reduce tensions with China over several issues.
 They completed two days of meetings Wednesday morning with agreements on expanding air cargo and passenger routes, investment opportunities for American companies in China, and sales of energy and environmental technology.
 At the same time, they made no breakthroughs on the larger issues of trade, currency, and protection against piracy of DVDs and other goods in China. The Chinese remained adamantly opposed to recent American legal actions against piracy and what the administration charges are illegal subsidies of exports by China.
 Mr. Paulson said earlier that he had been warned against sending the Chinese visitors to Capitol Hill, saying it would be a ''dangerous cocktail'' for the two sides to mix. But he said that both sides needed to understand each other better, and the Chinese needed to understand that Congress is the body that enacts trade laws.
 Two Chinese officials, briefing reporters Thursday, said that Ms. Wu appreciated the lesson, but they warned against further confrontational tactics on trade with China.
 ''We hope that the U.S. Congress will be able to have a correct understanding of the importance and significance of China-U.S. economic and trade relations and will bear in mind the overall interests of the United States in approaching this issue,'' said Xhu Guangyao, a finance ministry official.
 Another issue brought up on Thursday was the American desire to export more beef to China, which has balked because of concerns about safety, citing cases of mad cow disease in the United States. Mr. Bush pressed the issue at his news conference.
 ''One area where I've been disappointed is beef,'' he said. ''They need to be eating U.S. beef. It's good for them. They'll like it. And so we're working hard to get that beef market opened up.''
 That was echoed by Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee. Mr. Baucus cited what he said was an ''unscientific ban'' on American beef and the need to move on piracy and currency issues. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 29, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about economic talks between China and the United States misstated the American trade deficit in 2006, a contentious issue between the two countries. The total deficit was $765 billion last year -- not $232 billion, which is the amount of America's trade deficit with China.
An article in Business Day on Friday about efforts by Chinese officials to convince skeptics in Washington that there are benefits to Chinese-American economic relations, misspelled the surname of a Chinese finance ministry official. He is Zhu Guangyao, not Xhu.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice Premier Wu Yi of China playfully tugged at President Bush in a meeting with Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, and others. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); APPROVALS (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (51%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (55%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%)

PERSON: WU YI (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); HENRY PAULSON (89%); HU JINTAO (59%); HARRY REID (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



505 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Senate Votes to Keep Plan To Make Immigrants Legal

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24 

 BODY:
The Senate on Thursday turned aside the most significant challenge to the comprehensive immigration bill now under debate, voting 66 to 29 to keep a provision that offers legal status to most of the nation's 12 million illegal immigrants.
 The legalization program is, by far, the most contentious part of the bill. But it is also an indispensable element of the fragile bipartisan compromise that the bill embodies. 
Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, who offered the proposal to eliminate the program, called it ''amnesty, pure and simple.'' He said it would act like a magnet, encouraging more illegal immigration.
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, the chief Democratic architect of the bill, defended the program. To obtain legal status, he said, illegal immigrants would have to pay fines, pass background checks and, in most cases, hold jobs.
 ''Legalization is important for our national security,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''We have to know who is in the United States. Legalization is important in terms of our economic prosperity. And legalization is important for the families. Do we think we're going to deport children -- 3.5 million American children who have parents that are undocumented?''
 President Bush endorsed that argument. Referring to illegal immigrants, he said, ''You can't kick them out.'' That solution is ''just not real,'' he said Thursday at a news conference, where he urged the Senate to pass the immigration bill.
 The bill, a product of secret negotiations between the White House and a dozen senators, has survived four days of impassioned debate on the Senate floor. It is uncertain whether it has gained enough momentum to survive continuing attacks from both ends of the political spectrum.
 Senators return home on Friday for a weeklong recess over the Memorial Day holiday. Many said they expected a barrage of questions from constituents upset with the legalization program.
 But architects of the bill said they were pleased. 
 One of them, Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, said: ''It's been a good week. The bill is moving forward.'' 
 A co-author of the bill, Senator Ken Salazar, Democrat of Colorado, said, ''We are still together, and we are moving forward,'' despite opposition from ''bomb-throwers'' on the right and the left.
 Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, said the architects of the bill were confident that they would prevail when the Senate resumes work next month.
 ''We've got a long, tough road ahead of us,'' Mr. Specter said. But he added, ''We see essentially no enormous roadblocks, no poison pills, no killer amendments ahead that we can't deal with.''
 Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said: ''Time is on our side. The longer we have to discuss the bill among our colleagues, the bigger the buy-in.'' 
 Critics, Mr. Graham said, will feel better if they have time ''to vent their frustrations about the bill and to amend it.''
 In other action on Thursday, the Senate approved an amendment that would increase fees imposed on employers who hire highly skilled temporary workers with H-1B visas. The money would be used to finance scholarships for American citizens studying mathematics, engineering, health care and computer science.
 The vote was a victory for Senator Bernard Sanders, independent of Vermont, who had proposed the amendment, which was approved 59 to 35. 
 With the scholarships, he said, ''young Americans can get the education they need for these jobs, so employers don't have to go abroad.'' 
 The Senate narrowly rejected two proposals that could have upset the deal on immigration. In both cases, the vote was 49 to 48.
 One proposal would have ended a guest worker program for less-skilled workers after five years. 
 The other would have encouraged state and local officials to help enforce federal immigration laws -- its purpose being to prevent cities from offering sanctuary to illegal immigrants.
 Many Republicans see the guest worker program as an essential element of the bill. 
 But the proposal to end it after five years looked as if it might pass. During the roll call, Mr. Kennedy persuaded another Democratic senator, Daniel K. Akaka of Hawaii, to switch his vote, thereby preserving the program.
 Defending the guest worker program, President Bush said, ''I would much rather have people crossing the border with a legitimate card, coming to work on a temporary basis, than being stuffed in back of an 18-wheeler.''
 The proposal encouraging state and local agencies to help enforce the immigration laws was offered by Senator Norm Coleman, Republican of Minnesota. It said that state and local employees could ask people about their immigration status whenever the employees had ''probable cause'' to believe that the people were not here legally.
 ''Several cities have passed ordinances or issued executive orders forbidding local law enforcement to even ask the question as to whether a person is in the United States lawfully,'' Mr. Coleman said.
 In adopting such ''gag orders,'' Mr. Coleman said, cities prevent their employees from finding and arresting illegal immigrants who may go on to commit violent crimes.
 Senator Salazar denounced the proposal, saying it would force schoolteachers and hospital emergency room workers to become ''the cops of our immigration laws.''
 Mr. Kennedy said Mr. Coleman's amendment would deter illegal immigrants from reporting crimes or cooperating with the public health authorities.
 For example, he said, illegal immigrants with tuberculosis might be reluctant to seek treatment, and they could infect United States citizens. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, at a hearing on immigration yesterday. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); FAMILY (73%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (73%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); KEN SALAZAR (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); MEL MARTINEZ (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN CONYERS (58%); DAVID VITTER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



506 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Net Income Falls 79% At Luxury-Home Builder

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, May 24 

 BODY:
Government data showing an unexpected surge in new-home sales was little comfort to the luxury-home builder Toll Brothers, which reported a 79 percent decline in its fiscal second-quarter profit on Thursday. 
 Shares of Toll Brothers initially rose as much as 4.6 percent before falling back, and closed at $30.07, up 30 cents.
Other home builders also gave up their gains. The Philadelphia housing sector index, which tracks housing stocks, was down after an early rise.
 ''What you're seeing is the blue-light special,'' said Pat McPherron, an economist with Moody's Economy.com. ''The only way this market is going to move is by price-cutting.''
 Robert I. Toll, the chief executive of Toll Brothers, was cautious. In a conference call with analysts, he said he was ''a little more confident, but I would emphasize 'a little.' ''
 Over the years, Toll Brothers has not cut prices as quickly as other builders.
 In the quarter, it reported net income of $36.7 million, or 22 cents a share, compared with $174.9 million, or $1.06 a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue fell to $1.17 billion from $1.44 billion the year before
 Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had estimated profit of 25 cents a share on revenue of $1.12 billion.
 The quarter included write-downs of $72.9 million, or 44 cents a share. Excluding one-time items, the company would have earned 66 cents a share, compared with $1.10 a share last year.
 Second-quarter net signed contracts fell 25 percent, to $1.17 billion. The company signed 2,031 contracts, before cancellations, in the latest period, a 14 percent decline from a year earlier.
 Joe Snider, an analyst with Moody's Investors Service in New York, noted that Toll Brothers had managed its debt so that interest payments were not weighing as heavily on earnings as at other home builders.
 Last month, Pulte Homes posted a quarterly loss, while D. R. Horton said its earnings fell 85 percent. Profit at the Centex Corporation dropped 49 percent in what the company called one of the most difficult housing slumps in 25 years.
 Toll said it expected to deliver 6,100 to 6,900 homes this fiscal year and to produce total home-building revenue of $4.26 billion to $4.88 billion.
 For the third quarter, which ends July 31, the company said it expected to deliver 1,400 to 1,800 homes and produce revenue of $990 million to $1.28 billion.
 ''The bad times may not be behind us yet, but it could be,'' Mr. Toll said. ''You never know.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Toll Brothers project in Scottsdale, Ariz. The chief executive says he is only ''a little more confident'' about the housing market. (Photo by Ross D. Franklin/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: PULTEGROUP INC (81%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (67%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (64%); CENTEX CORP (63%); D R HORTON INC (58%)

TICKER: PHM (NYSE) (81%); DHI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (81%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (81%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (81%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (81%)

PERSON: ROBERT I TOLL (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



507 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: China's Leaders Confront Their Own Manic Market

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Rujun Shen in Shanghai contributed reporting.

DATELINE: HONG KONG, May 24 

 BODY:
WANTED: Central banker who can curb ''irrational exuberance'' among stock market investors. Statesmen with international credibility preferred. Availability soon. 
 Too bad Alan Greenspan, who does not speak Chinese, can't apply. One of the biggest challenges for Chinese leaders these days lies in when and how to rein in the country's soaring stock market and, just as important, whom to pick as the next governor of the central bank.
The challenges are closely intertwined. Like Mr. Greenspan nearly a decade ago, Zhou Xiaochuan, the current governor of the People's Bank of China, faces the knotty question of what to do about a speculative mania that has drawn millions of people with limited investing experience into betting their savings on the stock market.
 Mr. Greenspan, now 81, struggled to contain the tech stock boom, issuing his famous ''irrational exuberance'' warning in December 1996 only to watch the American market keep rising and finally collapse in early 2000. He tried his hand at forecasting Chinese stocks on Wednesday, telling an audience in Madrid by satellite that the Chinese market was ''clearly unsustainable'' and could undergo a ''dramatic contraction.'' 
 After setting records on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, the A shares, those traded in yuan, fell 0.47 percent in Shanghai and 0.6 percent in Shenzhen on Thursday as investors responded to the warning.
 But the warning was not news to Mr. Zhou and other Chinese officials. The central bank, securities regulators and prominent business executives have all been cautioning investors that buying stocks is not a guaranteed path to riches -- all with less apparent effect than Mr. Greenspan. 
 ''Will the Shanghai market correct at some stage? Yes, that's inevitable,'' said Michael R. P. Smith, the chief executive of HSBC's extensive Asian operations. ''Valuations are too high, I think; you can't sustain P/E multiples of 40, 50 times.''
 The economy is booming, but fairly low inflation, 3 percent, also makes for a conundrum similar to what Mr. Greenspan faced as Federal Reserve chairman: it is harder for Mr. Zhou to justify raising interest rates significantly. 
 For Mr. Zhou, there is a further complication in that he faces considerable uncertainty about his personal future. Five years into his current job, he turns 60 next year, and so by Chinese standards is due for a transfer or promotion.
 ''It could come at any time; I tend to think it will happen before the 17th Party Congress,'' expected in October or November, said Victor Shih, a Chinese banking specialist at Northwestern.
 Whoever succeeds Mr. Zhou confronts one of the toughest challenges of any financial policy maker. Chinese families eager to make money are opening brokerage accounts around the country, with the number of new accounts rocketing from several thousand a day two years ago to nearly 300,000 a day this month.
 Investors leaving a Shanghai brokerage firm on Wednesday were exuberant, as the Shanghai A share index closed at 4,354. Chen Zhiwei, a restaurant chef, said, ''With more new stocks listed, the bullish trend will keep going until the index hits 15,000.'' 
 Like Mr. Greenspan in the heat of the Internet frenzy, Mr. Zhou and his colleagues in the Chinese government have been cautious about trying to pop the bubble themselves.
 The Chinese government chose administrative measures, instead of market forces like higher interest rates, to prevent the economy from overheating in 2004 and to curb real estate speculation over the last two years. The government has taken a few such measures this year, like investigating fund managers to make sure that they do not engage in self-dealing at the expense of their clients, and requiring this week that new brokerage customers sign forms acknowledging that they understand the risks of stocks.
 But stocks sailed higher on Wednesday after an announcement by the finance ministry and State Administration of Taxation that the government had no plans to raise taxes on share transactions, an approach the government has sometimes taken in the past to curb speculation. 
 Cash is pouring into the stock market partly because money is pouring into China in general. With the Chinese government intervening heavily in currency markets to hold down the value of the yuan against the dollar, China is on course for a surplus this year of up to $400 billion in the current account, the broadest measure of trade. 
 The Chinese leadership has shown considerable caution in allowing the currency to appreciate. Mr. Zhou declared Wednesday morning that gradualism would remain China's policy as it pursues a long-term strategy of making the yuan more ''flexible.'' Chinese officials frequently refer to flexibility in describing a willingness to see more intraday volatility in the yuan, which remains tightly linked to the dollar. But that does not necessarily mean faster appreciation of the yuan. 
 Raising interest rates, a conventional cure for asset speculation, runs the risk of attracting even more foreign investment to China. The People's Bank of China has raised interest rates only four times in the last 13 months, while also raising eight times the percentage of assets that commercial banks must keep as reserves at the central bank.
 Partly because the People's Bank of China does not have nearly the same independence as the Federal Reserve and partly because Chinese economic policy makers have shunned the celebrity surrounding many of their overseas counterparts, Mr. Zhou has not attracted as much attention as Mr. Greenspan. 
 But now he is the subject of a guessing game about possible successors -- and about the extent to which career jockeying may make public officials leery of unpopular decisions.
 The most commonly cited potential governors are Shang Fulin, the chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission; Guo Shuqing, Communist Party secretary of the China Construction Bank; and Wu Xiaoling, who is the central bank's senior deputy governor but at 60 may already be deemed too old to succeed Mr. Zhou.
 Mr. Zhou was president of China Construction Bank and then chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission before taking over leadership of the central bank, so Mr. Shang and Mr. Guo could each be viewed as possibly following in his footsteps. As for Mr. Zhou himself, he is cited by some experts as a contender to rise as high as deputy prime minister of China -- if he can stay popular a few more months.
 But a possible slump in the stock market could hurt Mr. Zhou's future prospects -- even if damage to the broader economy may be limited. Some experts, like Jonathan Anderson, the chief Asia economist at UBS, suggest that because the rising stock market seems to have had little effect on the rate of economic growth over the last year and a half, it may not have much effect going down. 
 ''It's very hard indeed to see where the negative growth impact would come from,'' he said in a research report on Thursday, noting that equities form a tenth of total household and business wealth in China.
 As he left a Shanghai brokerage firm on Wednesday, Wang Jianping, a 52-year-old driver, said that he invested only his own savings in the stock market and never borrowed to buy shares.
 ''If I make money, that's great -- if I lose money, it won't hurt my quality of life and it will be O.K.,'' he said. ''If I don't make money on the investment in my lifetime, I'll leave it to my children and grandchildren.''
 The bigger worry, but much harder to calculate, lies in whether the country's banks have unintentionally or secretly lent heavily to stock market speculators who would not be able to repay their loans if the market collapsed.
 Chinese banking regulations bar banks from issuing margin loans directly to stock market investors. But banks are allowed to lend to securities firms, which in turn provide margin financing.
 State-controlled media have also reported this year that regulators are looking into whether stock speculators are misrepresenting their intentions to banks, claiming that they need loans for real estate or other purposes.
 For lack of data, credit analysts have been unable to assess the scale of bank exposure to the stock market. ''We can't see it,'' said Charlene Chu, an analyst in the Beijing office of Fitch Ratings, ''on the balance sheets.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: China's stock market could determine the personal future of Zhou Xiaochuan, head of the central bank. (Photo by Eugene Hoshiko/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 Investors in Shanghai followed stocks at a securities firm Tuesday. Shares traded in yuan fell yesterday after setting records earlier in the week. (Photo by Mark Ralston/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C4) Chart: ''Betting Their Savings'' Families across China are opening brokerage accounts at a torrid pace in response to a stock market that has more than tripled since the start of last year. Graph shows the brokerage accounts opened daily in China, for A shares, since 2005. (Source by UBS)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); GOVERNORS (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (91%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%) EAST CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



508 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Gone With the Windmill Farms, Or, a Cape Cod Cautionary Tale

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
 Cape Wind Money, Celebrity, Class, Politics and the Battle for Our Energy Future on Nantucket Sound By Wendy Williams and Robert Whitcomb Illustrated. 326 pages. PublicAffairs. $26.95. 
 Every so often a purely local dispute rises above its station and assumes national importance. This was the case with the Cape Wind project, a proposed wind farm that seemed to have everything going for it: It would deliver badly needed additional electric power to energy-hungry New England, reduce utility bills for everyone and cut down on air pollution. There was just one little problem. The spinning windmills would be located in Nantucket Sound, within view of some very expensive homes and some very wealthy and powerful citizens.
''Cape Wind'' is a cautionary tale. Wendy Williams, a journalist who lives on Cape Cod, and Robert Whitcomb, a vice-president and editorial page editor of The Providence Journal, give a blow-by-blow account of the project from its inception in 2001 to its ambiguous conclusion today. In so doing they show how quickly self-interest can be rallied to frustrate the broader public interest and how difficult it may be to change old habits of energy consumption in the United States. 
 This is a story that seems to have everything: waterfront mansions, yachts, a tenacious blue-collar entrepreneur, bare-knuckled political infighting at the state level and high-stakes political poker in Congress. It offers the delicious spectacle of self-described environmentalists, infatuated with the idea of alternative energy, tying themselves into knots trying to explain why a wind farm would be a splendid idea anywhere but in Nantucket Sound. Throw in a few Kennedys and you have the ingredients for a first-rate politico-eco drama.
 Alas the authors squander this opportunity. As unabashed cheerleaders for Cape Wind and seething with indignation at its opponents, they make no pretense of laying out the facts evenhandedly. They have a white-hat hero, Jim Gordon, the Boston energy entrepreneur who conceived of Cape Wind and fights the political power brokers -- local, state and national -- every step along the way. They have deep-dyed villains who appear onstage to the sound of authorial hisses: notably Senator Edward M. Kennedy, whose family compound in Hyannis looks out on the sound, and Mitt Romney, then governor of Massachusetts, who began nearly every speech on Cape Wind with ''I support renewable energy'' and then blocked the project at every turn. Their partner in crime is John Warner, the senior senator from Virginia, who has had longstanding ties to Cape Cod through his first wife, Catherine Mellon.
 The premise of the book is simple. As the authors tell it, a cabal of martini-swilling fat cats, surreptitiously encouraged by Senator Kennedy, worked the political system night and day to stop a beneficial utility project so that they could enjoy an unencumbered view from their energy-wasting mansions and sail their yachts without worrying about running into a wind turbine. They wrote big checks, told big lies and intimidated anyone foolish enough to get in their way, aided and abetted by a servile local newspaper, The Cape Cod Times, and the Alliance to Protect Nantucket Sound, depicted as a thoroughly unscrupulous advocacy group financed by local residents. 
 The facts are damning enough. The wind farm, consisting of 130 propellered turbines installed over an area of about 26 square miles, would generate up to 500 megawatts of clean energy. It would also reduce Cape Cod's dependence on two fossil-fuel plants that help make its air among the most polluted in New England. Nevertheless local grandees and celebrities, among them the former CBS anchorman Walter Cronkite and the historian David McCullough, came out foursquare against the project even before details were known. Opposition boiled down to four words: not in my backyard. 
 Ms. Williams and Mr. Whitcomb do a good job of showing how the rich make local government work for them, pulling strings discreetly from behind the curtain. But they pile on, with sneering quotation marks, insulting epithets and heavy-handed sarcasm. 
 At times the authors barely bother to present a case. When Larry Wheatley, a Republican candidate for state office put up by opponents of Cape Wind, is introduced, they write that ''he said he was an attorney, and he seemed to be selling real estate in Osterville.'' Well, was he or wasn't he? 
 An economist named David Tuerck, of the Beacon Hill Institute, issued a report claiming that Cape Wind would cause economic losses to Cape Cod by lowering property values and driving away tourists. The authors simply dismiss the analysis as being ''of doubtful quality'' and repeat a characterization of Mr. Tuerck as ''a right-wing economist for hire.'' The report might well have been shoddy -- the Beacon Hill Institute received $100,000 from a foundation opposed to Cape Wind -- but there is no way of knowing, since the authors do not deign to pick it apart. 
 The man in the white hat manages to pull a few rabbits out of it. Gradually, as the furor over Cape Wind gained national attention (in part because of an article in The New York Times Magazine), environmental groups like Greenpeace and powerful politicians in favor of alternative energy projects began to apply effective counterpressure. Mr. Cronkite, after sitting down and talking over the project with Mr. Gordon, withdrew his opposition. One by one legislative barriers thrown up at the last minute, behind closed doors, were overcome by some judicious arm twisting. At the moment, if permits are granted, Cape Wind can move forward.
 As the authors make clear, Mr. Gordon and the supporters of wind power might win the battle but lose the war. Companies interested in developing projects like Cape Wind now know that developing offshore wind farms might not be worth the blood, sweat and tears. Everyone, like Governor Romney, loves alternative energy. For everyone else. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wendy Williams and Robert Whitcomb. (Photo by Nancy Spears)
 (Photo by Gregory J. Auger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND POWER PLANTS (91%); WIND ENERGY (90%); POLITICS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); WRITERS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); JOURNALISM (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); AIR POLLUTION (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); TED KENNEDY (58%); JOHN WARNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



509 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 472 words

PERSON: Philip M. Kaiser 

HEADLINE: Philip Kaiser Dies at 93; Diplomat Under Democrats

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24 

 BODY:
Philip M. Kaiser, a former ambassador to Austria, Hungary and Senegal who served as a diplomat or political appointee under every Democratic president from Harry S. Truman to Jimmy Carter, died Thursday in Washington. He was 93. 
 The cause was pneumonia, said his son Charles.
 After Mr. Carter named him ambassador to Hungary in 1977, Mr. Kaiser helped win the administration's approval for the return to Budapest of the Crown of St. Stephen, a symbol of Hungarian nationhood, which had been in American custody since World War II.
 Along with Cyrus R. Vance, then the secretary of state, Mr. Kaiser argued that getting back the crown would help encourage Hungary to turn toward the West at the height of the cold war.
 As ambassador to Senegal from 1961 to 1964, Mr. Kaiser assisted in persuading the government in Dakar to deny landing rights to military aircraft of the Soviet Union during the Cuban missile crisis in 1962. He had earlier accompanied the president of Senegal, Leopold Sedar Senghor, on a visit to President John F. Kennedy at the White House.
 Mr. Kaiser wrote ''Journeying Far and Wide: A Political and Diplomatic Memoir'' in 1993. 
 Philip Mayer Kaiser was born in Brooklyn on July 12, 1913, the ninth of 10 children of Moishe Bear and Tema Sloven Kaiser, who never learned English. His parents, who spoke Russian and Yiddish to each other, emigrated from Ukraine (then part of Russia) in 1905, and his four older siblings were born there.
 Mr. Kaiser received his undergraduate degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1936 and was selected as a Rhodes scholar. 
 At Oxford, he studied politics, philosophy and economics at Balliol College, where one of his tutors was the philosopher and critic Sir Isaiah Berlin, who became a lifelong friend. Another friend at Oxford, Byron R. White, the future Supreme Court justice, helped recruit Mr. Kaiser for the Kennedy presidential campaign in 1960.
 Mr. Kaiser was assistant secretary of labor under Truman and a special assistant to Gov. W. Averell Harriman of New York in Albany in the late 1950s. 
 After serving in Senegal, and then enduring a bout with tuberculosis in Washington, Mr. Kaiser was deputy chief of mission in the American Embassy in London, starting in 1964. 
 A lifelong, passionate Democrat, he often said that of the Democratic presidents he served, his favorite was Truman because he was closest to the people. Mr. Kaiser helped in the effort that got the State Department building renamed for Truman in 2000.
 Besides his son Charles, an author and journalist, Mr. Kaiser is survived by his wife of 67 years, Hannah Greeley Kaiser; two other sons, Robert G., a former managing editor and now an associate editor of The Washington Post, and David, a professor of history at the Naval War College in Newport, R.I.; and four grandchildren. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 26, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Philip M. Kaiser, a former ambassador to Austria, Hungary and Senegal, gave an incorrect year in some copies for the beginning of his service as ambassador to Senegal. It was 1961, not 1962. The byline also misspelled the given name of the writer in some copies. He is Steven R. Weisman, not Stephen.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip Kaiser in an undated photo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); WRITERS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); POLITICS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); APPROVALS (71%); HISTORY (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

JIMMY CARTER (88%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); DAKAR, SENEGAL (58%); ALBANY, NY, USA (52%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) HUNGARY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SENEGAL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UKRAINE (79%); AUSTRIA (73%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007



510 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Existing Home Sales and Prices Fall in April

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
By all measures, April was a bad month for anyone with a ''for sale'' sign in the front yard. 
 Sales of previously owned homes declined last month as the supply of unsold properties on the market ballooned and prices declined compared with those a year earlier.
The National Association of Realtors said yesterday that sales of existing homes fell 2.6 percent on an annualized basis, to six million, which was the slowest rate in almost four years. At the same time, inventories grew to the largest supply in 15 years -- 8.4 months' worth -- and the median price of an existing home fell 0.8 percent to $220,900. 
 The Realtors association report came one day after a government report on new-home sales showed that prices dropped last month by the largest amount on record. While that report also showed sales posting their biggest monthly increase in 14 years, many economists dismissed the reading as a fluke, noting that new-home sales data can be wildly volatile.
 The state of the residential real estate market, as shown in recent days by income reports from home builders, sales figures and other industry barometers, remains dim, economists said. 
 ''The market is lousy,'' said David Sloan, senior economist with 4Cast, a market research firm in New York. ''The overall economy is not growing particularly strong. The Fed is keeping interest rates reasonably high because it's worried about inflation. So I don't think much is going to change in the fundamentals of the housing market.''
 Last week, a closely watched measure of builder confidence slipped to the lowest level in a year and a half. That sentiment has been reflected recently in the profit margins of the nation's largest builders. On Thursday, the luxury homebuilder Toll Brothers said its profit fell 79 percent from the end of January to the end of April.
 Last month, D. R. Horton, the nation's largest builder by volume, reported an 85 percent decline in profit for the first three months. And Pulte Homes, the nation's second-largest builder, said last month that it lost $85.7 million in the first quarter.
 The Realtors association report showed that sales slipped the most last month in the Northeast. The 8.8 percent decline there came as prices fell 0.6 percent compared with a year earlier to $283,600. In the West, sales fell 1.7 percent while the median price was $338,200, which is 2.1 percent lower than a year earlier. Sales in the South slipped 1.2 percent, and the median price was down 0.3 percent to $181,100.
 The Midwest suffered the least damage. Sales there declined 0.7 percent and prices rose 1.9 percent from a year earlier to $166,600.
 But with inventories swelling to such a high level, selling a home in the coming months could get even harder. The Realtors association reported 4.2 million existing homes on the market at the end of April. That is on top of the 532,000 new homes that were also unsold at the end of the month.
 The actual backlog, economists said, is probably higher. New-home sales are recorded when the contract is signed, and the data do not take cancellations into account.
 Patrick Newport, an economist with Global Insight, said the inventory bulge was ''worrisome, since builders are less likely to start new homes as long as inventories are climbing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); EXISTING HOME SALES (93%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%)

COMPANY: D R HORTON INC (58%); PULTEGROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%)

TICKER: DHI (NYSE) (58%); PHM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



511 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Wait a Few Months Before You Believe the Numbers

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
IT is the newest economic statistics that usually get all the attention as investors and analysts try to gauge the health of the economy.
 But sometimes the statistics that take the longest to arrive can provide the most important information, particularly when they point to inflection points in the economy. 
So it may be with jobs data that the Bureau of Labor Statistics released this month for the third quarter of 2006. The new data calls into question the previous conclusion that employment grew at a strong rate in late 2006.
 And it indicates that many small businesses, which had been leading the way in job creation, are now suffering. As is shown in the accompanying graphic, companies with fewer than 50 employees lost workers in the quarter, while larger ones kept hiring, albeit at a reduced pace. 
 It also appears that 8,000 more businesses closed than opened in that quarter, making it the worst quarter by that measure since the third quarter of 2001, when an economy already in recession was jolted by the Sept. 11 attacks.
 The data is included in a quarterly report, titled ''Business Employment Dynamics,'' that comes from reviewing employment at every company in the United States that is subject to state unemployment compensation laws. By that measure, private-sector employment rose by just 19,000 jobs in the quarter.
 The widely reported data from the bureau's monthly survey of employers concluded that the quarter had a net gain in private-sector jobs of 498,000. That led economists to conclude that employment growth was holding up well even though the overall economy had slowed, growing at just a 2 percent annual rate. 
 A big difference was in construction employment, which the quarterly study found contracted by 77,000 jobs in the quarter, in contrast to the increase of 34,000 jobs shown by the monthly surveys.
 ''The data show we had two consecutive quarters of job losses in construction,'' said David Talan, an economist at the bureau, noting the small decrease shown in the second quarter of last year.
 The figures do not cover exactly the same things, as a small proportion of employers -- notably railroads and religious organizations -- are not covered by unemployment insurance. And Kirk Mueller, a branch chief in the section of the bureau that deals with current employment statistics, said differing seasonal adjustment factors could affect the results.
 Eventually, the monthly numbers will be revised to reflect the results of the quarterly survey, but that will not be done until data is available for the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of this one, and Mr. Mueller said it was too early to conclude that major adjustments would have to be made.
 Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG, an investment advisory firm, said that he thought the third quarter had been an inflection point in the economy and that the end result would be a substantial reduction in earlier employment estimates.
 One reason the monthly survey can be inaccurate is that it has to estimate the number of jobs created by new businesses, which are by definition not included in the survey. It may be that those estimates were too high.
 It will not be until next February that the monthly numbers are revised in the next benchmark revision. We may learn then that the job market was not as strong as it seemed to be in late 2006 and early 2007. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''As More U.S. Companies Fail, Small Businesses Cut Jobs'' Graphs track the following since 1998: 1. Net change in the number of employers 2. Net change in employment for companies with: a. Fewer than 50 employees (30% of private-sector jobs) All figures are quarterly and seasonally adjusted b. 50 or more employees (70% of private-sector jobs) (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



512 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Haitian Refugees

 BODY:
 To the Editor: 
 While the common view is that Haiti is an economic basket case, resulting in Haitians' losing their lives trying to flee to the United States (''New Routes and New Risk to Flee Haiti,'' front page, May 19), the Haitian people remain strong, hard-working and innovative survivors.
What prevents economic development in Haiti is not the will of the people, but the backbreaking debt accumulated by corrupt dictators over the years, little of which benefited the Haitian people. 
 If the debt were forgiven, the government would have funds to build roads, schools and other infrastructure needed for economic recovery. Tom Miller Oakland, Calif., May 19, 2007 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); REFUGEES (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (86%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



513 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: Catholic Upward Mobility

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Catholic Boom,'' by David Brooks (column, May 25): 
You don't have to be a committed Marxist to recognize that the family cohesion Mr. Brooks attributes to the influence of the Catholic Church was supported on a foundation of decent hourly-wage industrial jobs and low-to-middle level managerial positions, which the political powers he so consistently supports have systematically stripped out of the economy. 
 Family cohesion is a lot easier when every adult in the family is not working two jobs. If new generations of Catholics have outstripped their parents in terms of education, perhaps it is because the G.I. Bill and other government policies in the 1950s and 1960s made that possible. James M. Doyle Nantucket, Mass., May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



514 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Two Failures Do Not End Dreams Of a Rochester-to-Toronto Ferry

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, N.Y., May 23 

 BODY:
Two years ago, this city of 190,000 people -- with more per-capita murders, high school dropouts and children living in poverty than any other in the state -- paid $32 million for a high-speed ferry. It was considered a way to help revive the local economy by shuttling thousands of passengers a day to and from Canada, across Lake Ontario.
 The idea was not a new one, and a recent, short-lived attempt gave cause for concern about the city's venture. In the summer of 2004, two private investors had launched a ferry that took two and a half hours to journey between Rochester and Toronto. But they went out of business after just 11 weeks when low ridership, unexpected breakdowns and rising fuel prices left them unable to shoulder the costs of the operation.
The investors' 770-passenger vessel, the Spirit of Ontario, was seized by creditors and remained moored in the ferry terminal here for months. After no one stepped forward to take over the service, the city bought the vessel in February 2005 and got into the ferry business itself, offering three round trips a day. But the city did no better than the investors, and by the end of 2005, the operation was $10 million in the red. 
 When a new mayor took office in January 2006, he put the boat on the market. ''I had to stop the bleeding,'' the mayor, Robert J. Duffy, said in an interview. 
 A German company whose fleet shuttles between Spain and Morocco bought the ferry last month, marking the end of a costly and contentious chapter in a city that has been beset by financial difficulties since the collapse of its manufacturing industry in the 1990s. During the past 14 years, Rochester has lost 41 percent of its manufacturing jobs. That puts it among the top three cities, with Detroit and Newark, N.J., to lose such a large proportion of its industrial work force.
 Rochester is already facing a $30 million deficit in its next budget. After it pays its share of insurance and other fees related to the failed ferry operation, the city will be saddled with at least an additional $20 million in debt.
 So as the Spirit of Ontario begins sailing the Strait of Gibraltar, the future of Rochester's port remains in question. The ferry terminal, once promoted as a destination for tourists and locals alike, sits virtually empty. Most of the stores have closed, the ticket counter is sealed, and the second floor, proposed home to a nightclub that never opened, is out of bounds to visitors. 
 After dark, the parking lot, with room for nearly 800 vehicles, is deserted and eerily silent, save for the sound of a chain hitting a flagpole with no flag.
 The Nutty Bavarian, which sells cashews and almonds, is one of the holdouts, along with a hamburger restaurant and a custard shop. 
 ''We're here only because we can't afford to get out,'' said Mike Manioci, 65, a retired city worker who in 2004 opened the Nutty Bavarian with a childhood friend. ''The place was supposed to be a destination. But the crowds never came.''
 Commercial boats have plied Lake Ontario between the Port of Rochester and Toronto since the 1800s. In the 19th century, they carried fur, timber and mail, and during Prohibition, in the 1920s and early '30s, rum runners dodged federal patrols to deliver Canadian liquor that was sold at Rochester speakeasies.
 The port, lined with warehouses and mills, hummed with activity back then. On weekends, thousands of people rode the trolley from downtown to a lakeshore amusement park that disappeared after the Depression, along with most of the nearby mills. In the late 1990s, William A. Johnson Jr., who was then the mayor, came up with the idea of redeveloping the port, which sits on the eastern edge of Charlotte, a middle-class neighborhood. The city, state and federal governments together spent more than $150 million on the project. 
 At the time, Rochester was staggering from the losses of jobs and tax revenues brought by the downsizing of its largest employer, Eastman Kodak, which had reduced its 80,000-person work force by nearly 80 percent as the advent of digital cameras devastated its film business. At the same time, Xerox, founded here in 1906, was on its way to shrinking its local work force by about half, and Delphi Automotive Systems, a major producer of auto parts, with a plant here, was fighting its way through bankruptcy. 
 The city was desperate, Mr. Johnson said, and the ferry, even after it had failed in the hands of private investors, seemed like a possible way out.
 ''The ferry was sitting here, and the city had already invested a lot of money, so essentially there was an opportunity that was presented to us,'' said Mr. Johnson, who retired in 2005 after 12 years in office. 
 But a state audit requested by two state legislators and released last year said that there were ''clear warnings that were known, or should have been known, by city officials'' that should have alerted them to the ''extremely risky nature of this venture.'' The audit also pointed to flaws in the ferry's private operation -- from its business plan to a lack of capital and little customer enthusiasm in Toronto.
 And to complicate matters, a proposal to allow gambling on board was rejected by the Legislature.
 Robert Duffy, who succeeded Mr. Johnson as mayor, has adopted the slogan ''One City'' as the motto for his administration. It encapsulates what is perhaps Rochester's greatest challenge: unifying a community where restored historic homes and cozy cafes sit a few blocks from boarded-up houses and streets where heroin is sold in broad daylight.
 The city has six universities, yet fewer than half of the ninth graders in Rochester's public schools go on to earn their diplomas. Rochester has a thriving high-tech industry -- and the number of patents its companies and residents have been granted is among the highest per capita in the nation -- but one-quarter of its residents live in poverty. 
 ''What you have in Rochester are people who are quite well-educated, wealthy and white living alongside people who have none of these attributes,'' said John M. Klofas, a professor of criminal justice at the Rochester Institute of Technology. ''The result is a growing culture of separation.''
 Rochester, which has lost 40 percent of its population in the past three decades, now has about 80,000 white residents and 80,000 black residents, according to United States Census Bureau statistics. But of the 50,000 people living below the poverty line, 32,000 of them are black.
 For the current fiscal year, legislators increased Rochester's state aid by $17 million, or 33 percent -- the largest single increase on record for the city, although it still received less per capita than Buffalo or Syracuse. Part of the money has been used to hire 35 police officers who will bolster patrols in the high-crime areas that extend like a crescent moon north of downtown.
 Mayor Duffy said he was open to the idea of giving the ferry another try, as long as it was privately financed. In the meantime, he said, he hoped to recruit a developer to build marinas on the Genesee River, near the port and condominiums at the ferry terminal.
 ''In some ways, the ferry gave us a little hope of what could have been, but then we had the rug pulled from under our feet,'' said Brian Labigan, president of the neighborhood association in Charlotte. ''We just hope the city won't forget us. It would be nice to see what was started come to a happy end.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 21, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 26 about Rochester's economic decline referred imprecisely to the number of universities there and misstated the percentage change in population over the past three decades. There is one university, the University of Rochester, within the city limits, not six. (The other five are in suburban Rochester). The population decline was 26 percent, not 40 percent.
An article on May 26 about Rochester's economic decline referred imprecisely to the number of universities there and misstated the percentage change in population over the past three decades. There is one university, the University of Rochester, within the city limits, not six. (The other five are in suburban Rochester). The population decline was 26 percent, not 40 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The ticket counter at the Port of Rochester's ferry terminal has been dark and empty since the mayor, Robert J. Duffy, canceled service and put the boat on the market. (Photo by Max Schulte for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 The ferry, docked at the Port of Rochester in January 2006, has been sold to a German company that will use it in the Strait of Gibraltar. (Photo by Max Schulte for The New York Times)(pg. B6) Map of New York State highlighting Rochester and the surrounding area: The ferry from Rochester to Toronto took two and a half hours. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (92%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (86%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CRUISES (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); MAYORS (70%); RESTAURANTS (67%); INTERVIEWS (64%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); LAKE ONTARIO (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (90%); MOROCCO (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



515 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: A Katrina Health Care System

BYLINE: By ATUL GAWANDE. 
Atul Gawande, a surgeon at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston and a New Yorker staff writer, is the author of the new book ''Better.'' He is a guest columnist this month.

 BODY:
This is my fourth week as a guest columnist. Let's take a look at the health care news that's transpired in that time.
 First, DaimlerChrylser sold off 80 percent of its Chrysler division for three pebbles and a piece of string. O.K., the cash payment was actually $1.35 billion. But for an 82-year-old company that built more than two million cars and trucks last year, took in $47 billion in revenue, and owns 64 million square feet of factory real estate in North America alone, that's almost nothing. Yet analysts say that it was a great deal for Daimler. Why? Because the buyer, Cerberus Capital Management, agreed to absorb Chrysler's $18 billion in health and pension liability costs. 
Stop and think about this for a minute. The deal meant that the costs of our job-based health insurance system -- costs adding $1,500 to each car Chrysler builds here, but almost nothing to those built in Canada or Europe -- have so broken the automaker's ability to compete that giving it away became the smartest thing Daimler could do. Chrysler's mistake was to hang around long enough to collect retirees and an older-than-average work force. As a result, it now has less market value than Men's Wearhouse, Hasbro, the Cheesecake Factory, NutriSystem, Foot Locker and Pottery Barn. Oprah is worth more than Chrysler. This is not good.
 Meanwhile, officials at West Jefferson Medical Center outside New Orleans reported that the number of indigent patients admitted there has tripled since Hurricane Katrina. The uninsured are now 30 percent of their emergency room patients. Officials in Houston hospitals are reporting similar numbers. Conditions seem worse rather than better. Katrina caused a vicious spiral. Large numbers of people lost their jobs and, with them, their health coverage. Charity Hospital, the one state-funded hospital in New Orleans, closed. The few open hospital emergency rooms in the area have had to handle the load, but it's put the hospitals in financial crisis. Four hundred physicians filed a lawsuit against the state seeking payment for uncompensated care, and massive numbers of doctors and nurses have left the area.
 In Washington, a conference held by the American College of Emergency Physicians revealed that New Orleans may have it worst, but emergency rooms everywhere are drowning in patients. Mandated to care for the uninsured, they are increasingly unprofitable. So although the influx of patients has grown, 500 emergency rooms have closed in the last decade. The result: 91 percent report overcrowding -- meaning wait times for the acutely ill of more than an hour or waiting rooms filled more than six hours per day. Almost half report this occurring daily.
 A few days later, the Commonwealth Fund released one of the most detailed studies ever done comparing care in the United States, Australia, Canada, Germany, New Zealand and Britain. We've known for awhile that health care here is more expensive than anywhere and that our life expectancy is somehow shorter. But the particulars were the surprise.
 On the good side, the study found that once we get into a doctor's office, American patients are as likely as patients anywhere to get the right care, especially for prevention. Only Germans have a shorter wait for surgery when it's needed. And 85 percent of Americans are happy with the care they get. 
 But we also proved to be the least likely to have a regular doctor -- and starkly less likely to have had the same doctor for five years. We have the hardest time finding care on nights or weekends outside of an E.R. And we are the most likely (after Canadians) to wait six days or more for an appointment when we need medical attention. Half of Americans also reported forgoing medical care because of cost in the last two years, twice the proportion elsewhere. 
 None of this news, however, did more than lift a few eyebrows. So this is the picture of American health care you get after watching for a few weeks: it's full of holes, it's slowly bankrupting us and we're kind of used to it. 
 That leaves two possibilities: (1) We've given up on the country; or (2) we're just waiting for someone else to be in charge. 
 I'm pulling for No. 2. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (86%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); HURRICANES (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); LITIGATION (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); CHEESECAKE FACTORY INC (67%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (58%); MEN'S WEARHOUSE INC (54%)

TICKER: CAKE (NASDAQ) (67%); MW (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (67%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (67%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (67%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (67%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (54%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (54%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (54%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (54%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (54%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



516 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: In the Midst of Desire and Frustration, Questions of What Might Have Been

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, May 23 

 BODY:
A lone tree, denuded of greenery and casting a spindly shadow on the gray wall behind it, sets the stark, melancholy tone for Gordon Edelstein's new production of ''Uncle Vanya'' at the Long Wharf Theater.
 As the characters in this Chekhov play move across the wide expanses of the set's wooden flooring, making their way through days darkened by disappointment, they come to seem as frozen in place as that forlorn tree. They are people with minds full of ideas and hearts full of yearning, occasionally roused to declarations of love and even a gunshot or two, but they are never really going to shake the sense of stasis in their souls. 
Using his own economical adaptation of the play, based on a literal translation of the original, Mr. Edelstein situates his production somewhere between tradition and modest innovation. A few contemporary colloquial phrases make subdued but significant appearances in the text. (Dr. Astrov remarks half-mockingly that he's on a ''liquid diet.'') The set appears to expose the theater's industrial-looking infrastructure -- that tree is framed by what looks like the entry to an old loading dock -- but the wooden furnishings scattered around are period-appropriate. Jane Greenwood's handsome costumes, in mostly somber tones, likewise dress up 19th-century silhouettes with contemporary touches.
 The aim is to underscore the timelessness of a play whose characters all seem to be living somehow out of time, unable to engage with life in the present as they pine for a promising future that will be forever out of reach. 
 The most reliable manner of getting through the days -- work -- has abruptly stopped on the estate where Vanya (Mark Blum) and his niece, Sonya (Jennifer Dundas), have been quietly and happily toiling away. The arrival of Sonya's father, Serebryakov (William Biff McGuire), and his new young wife, Yelena (Elisabeth Waterston), has upended routine, jostled everyone out of the grind that blinds them to their secret sadness.
 Mr. Blum's Vanya, anxious and with a careworn face that crinkles in irritation whenever he thinks of his many grievances, reacts most violently to the unpleasant discovery of his own unhappiness. His outrage at the fatuousness of Serebryakov is fueled both by his own frustration and wounded pride and his tender infatuation with Yelena, whom he regards with the pleading eyes of a hungry puppy. 
 Mr. Blum's performance is proficient and often amusing, but Vanya's petulance overshadows the deeply felt grief that should give his character a dignity that touches the heart. It's funny but dry, and we see little of what makes him so dearly lovable to his niece.
 If the arrival of Yelena and her ailing husband has awakened Vanya to the futility of his life, Sonya briefly feels a kindling of hope as Serebryakov calls for Astrov (Marco Barricelli), whom she has long adored. But Ms. Dundas's girlish looks and diminutive stature stand in poignant contrast to the womanly elegance of Ms. Waterston's Yelena. Astrov, bewitched by Yelena, seems to look straight through poor little Sonya into Yelena's eyes. 
 The scene between Yelena and Sonya, one of the sudden flashes of intimacy that brings the play's characters together for a moment of true connection, opens a window onto a little sunlight, but it is abruptly shut. When Sonya returns with the sad news that Serebryakov won't allow music to be played, she delivers the line -- ''He says no'' -- and darkness falls abruptly as the first act ends.
 But then shadows are never far away in Mr. Edelstein's production. Christopher Akerlind's intricate lighting rarely rises to anything brighter than a soft golden glow, and a harsher gray light from outside often seems to be warring with the warmer tones indoors. 
 When the characters gather at center stage, they are surrounded by a wide gulf of darkness. Telyegin (a softly buffoonish Larry Block) quietly strums away at his guitar in the dimness behind them, at what seems a half-mile from the action, while Vanya's mother, Maria (Waltrudis Buck), sits quietly reading in the far distance, in the fine sliver of shade cast by that bare tree, presumably. 
 The performances are virtually all solid and effective, but the full humanity of these delicately drawn characters never really shines forth. Mr. Blum's Vanya is not the only character lacking the banked inner fires to draw us into deep sympathy. Ms. Waterston's Yelena, lovely to look at in her gowns, possesses little of the natural radiance you hope for. Ms. Dundas capably communicates Sonya's warm efficiency and quiet longing, but her delivery of the famous final soliloquy has a monotonously mournful quality.
 In that sense it is in keeping with Mr. Edelstein's production as a whole. Although there are some inventive comic touches -- Telyegin shuffling back and forth to talk to Yelena as she whooshes languidly on a swing -- the production sustains an air of subdued anguish that signals from the start that there's little hope for any of these characters. It is intelligent and beautifully designed (Michael Yeargan did the sets), but it often feels airless. 
 As Serebryakov, Mr. McGuire contributes one of the more fully rounded portraits, and is unexpectedly moving in the scene in which Serebryakov confesses his fear of mortality. In Mr. McGuire's dignified interpretation, this selfish and self-pitying old man comes across here as a rather more sympathetic figure than the more stridently self-pitying Vanya.
 But best of all is Mr. Barricelli as Astrov, one of the more natural and wholly realized portraits I've seen in a Chekhov production. Exhausted and subdued in the play's first scene, as he complains to the servant Marina (Zoaunne LeRoy) of the tedium of his life, Astrov is fired with enthusiasm and a reckless happiness under the influence of vodka. The embers of his hopes for his life may be dying, but drink brings back a vestige of the heat his idealism once gave him.
 Mr. Barricelli makes us feel both the sturdy beauty of that idealism -- his talk of man's destruction of the world's resources makes him sound like a 19th-century Al Gore -- and the quiet tragedy of his inability to fulfill it. Astrov's anguish at the death of a patient, which interrupts his drunken effusions, is among the production's most affecting moments, as he buries his face in his hands. Underneath the cynicism and professions of indifference, Astrov's heart is still capable of feeling real anguish.
 And his rejection of Sonya is infused with a lovely compassion. In the last scene, as Astrov takes his leave, he gently puts his hand on her shoulder from behind. A simple, almost impersonal gesture, it is infused with more warmth than the passionate kiss he has just shared with Yelena. 
 It's quintessentially Chekhovian too. The great highs and lows of life are storms that pass quickly and leave behind an empty feeling, but a gentle pat on the shoulder can be enough to see you through until tomorrow. Uncle Vanya By Anton Chekhov; adapted and directed by Gordon Edelstein; sets by Michael Yeargan; costumes by Jane Greenwood; lighting by Christopher Akerlind; sound by Daniel Baker; production stage manager, Bret Torbeck; assistant stage manager, Amy Patricia Stern; dramaturge, Beatrice Basso. Presented by the Long Wharf Theater, Mr. Edelstein, artistic director; Joan Channick, managing director. At the Long Wharf Theater's Mainstage, 222 Sargent Drive, New Haven; (203) 787-4282. Through June 3. Running time: 2 hours 30 minutes. WITH: Marco Barricelli (Astrov), Larry Block (Telyegin), Mark Blum (Vanya), Waltrudis Buck (Maria), Jennifer Dundas (Sonya), William Biff McGuire (Serebryakov), Zoaunne LeRoy (Marina), Charles Tirrell (Worker) and Elisabeth Waterston (Yelena). 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Blum portrays the petulant title character in Chekhov's ''Uncle Vanya,'' playing in New Haven. (Photo by T. Charles Erickson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



517 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Today In Business: Trade Dispute Over Wine

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The United States said that it would ask the World Trade Organization to investigate whether India's import duties on products like Napa Valley wine and Jack Daniel's whiskey violate global commerce rules. The announcement by Washington's top trade negotiator, Susan Schwab, left, comes a month after the W.T.O. established a panel to examine a European complaint against wine and liquor restrictions in several Indian states. India's basic import duties on wine are 100 percent, while the tariff on spirits is 150 percent, both within W.T.O. limits. But various surcharges take the tariffs up to levels reaching as high as 550 percent, depending on the Indian state. 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (88%); TRADE DISPUTES (88%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (83%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



518 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Russia Putting On a Davos-Style Economic Forum to Showcase Its Growth

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, May 25 

 BODY:
The Kremlin is hoping it can put the focus on gains in the Russian economy at a forum for business leaders next month in St. Petersburg, highlighting growth that has been overshadowed by negative political news from Russia.
 The Russian government has billed the gathering in St. Petersburg as a kind of Davos for emerging markets, with an emphasis on Russia's oil-driven economy.
 Economic growth has been defying critics who said the worsening political climate between Russia and the United States and the European Union might stunt investment. In the first quarter, for example, growth in Russia's gross domestic product was 7.7 percent and foreign investment was up 150 percent over the comparable period the year before. 
 Russian officials in the meantime have been fending off accusations that a former agent in the Federal Security Service, the successor agency to the K.G.B., killed a defector in London with radioactive poison, in one of several disputes indicative of the souring mood between Russia and the West. 
 German O. Gref, the Russian minister of trade and economic development, said in an interview this week that he would assure investors that property rights remained intact in Russia and that his agency would adhere to the liberal economic course of recent years. 
 ''The key thesis we would like to convey is that Russia underwent a very serious transformation,'' Mr. Gref said. ''Now it has arrived at the stage of its modernization.''
 Russia's economic goals, he said, depend on an openness to global investment. That policy, he said, is no longer a matter of debate in the administration of Vladimir V. Putin. 
 ''This can only be done if the economy is open to foreign investment, with an auspicious investment climate, security for property rights and stable macroeconomics,'' Mr. Gref said. ''Our action is geared toward those goals.''
 Analysts, however, have cautioned that a certain hubris is creeping into Russian economic policy, prompting excessive spending of the oil windfall that threatens to stir inflation, undermining policies put in place by Mr. Gref and other liberals in the cabinet. A hard-line faction of national security officials is seen as advocating increased military spending and state ownership. 
 This week, Mr. Putin suggested government oil revenue might be invested in the Russian stock market to prop up the lagging performance of state-owned companies, something that would signify an even greater interventionist policy by the Kremlin.
 That prompted a blistering note to investors by Goldman Sachs suggesting that the liberal wing might be losing influence over economic policy. 
 ''Perhaps most worrying about this proposal is that it is a sign of the deterioration in the quality of economic policy advice received by the president as he approaches the end of his presidential term,'' Goldman Sachs wrote in the research note. 
 In the interview, Mr. Gref said that he and a fellow liberal, the finance minister, Aleksei L. Kudrin, remained firmly in charge of economic policy. ''The direction is established. There's no alternative to an open, market-based economy,'' he said. 
 A trend of creeping state control over the economy is another development that worries investors. Gazprom, the natural gas monopoly, acquired 50 percent of a Royal Dutch Shell development on Sakhalin Island in a forced sale last fall. That followed the effective nationalization of Yukos, once Russia's largest private company. And recently, officials have threatened to revoke a major gas field license held by a joint venture of BP in Russia, TNK-BP. 
 Outside of oil and gas, the Kremlin has consolidated control over aircraft manufacturing, domestic automobile makers, diamond mines and other industries. Mr. Gref, however, said state intervention in areas other than oil and gas should be seen as temporary efforts by the government to revamp industries that were ailing during the Soviet era. They will eventually be reprivatized ''up to 100 percent,'' he said. 
 Moscow is in the middle of the first oil boom since the collapse of its empire, meaning the windfall is no longer diminished by subsidizing client states with cheap energy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (88%); INTERVIEWS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



519 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Nasdaq Agrees to Buy OMX, Operator of 7 Stock Exchanges in Europe

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON, May 25 

 BODY:
It was third time lucky for Robert Greifeld, the chief executive of Nasdaq, who succeeded after failing twice to expand into Europe.
 Nasdaq, the largest electronic stock market in America, agreed Friday to buy OMX, the operator of seven Nordic and Baltic exchanges, for 25.1 billion Swedish kronor ($3.7 billion).
Nasdaq offered 208.1 kronor a share in cash and stock, a 16 percent premium to OMX's closing share price in Stockholm on Thursday. 
 The combined company, which will be called the Nasdaq OMX Group, will be run by Mr. Greifeld and will list more than 4,000 companies, including Microsoft and Nokia, with a combined market value of $5.5 trillion.
 The takeover gives Nasdaq, based in New York, access to stock and derivatives trading in Europe and the market for technology to run exchanges.
 It is the latest combination in a market that is consolidating to meet clients' demands to buy and sell stocks of companies anywhere in the world, at a faster pace, across different asset classes and for less money. 
 ''Business and companies are becoming global and we need a free flow of transactions and platforms to represent that,'' said Roger Nightingale, a global economist at Millennium Global Investments in London.
 Stock exchanges are also combining to save costs in an industry where the largest single expense is developing the technology to run trading platforms.
 ''The future of exchanges is about technology, flexibility and scale,'' Mr. Greifeld said. The combination with OMX ''provides our organizations with the ability to grow and accelerate the global flow of equity capital.''
 The purchase of OMX -- which operates exchanges in Stockholm, where it is based; Helsinki; Copenhagen; and Iceland -- followed two failed attempts by Nasdaq over the last two years to buy the London Stock Exchange, Europe's largest exchange.
 The London exchange rebuffed the offers of as much as $:2.7 billion ($5.4 billion) as too low, but Nasdaq managed to acquire a 30 percent stake that it still holds.
 Some analysts said a larger Nasdaq with an operation and some top management in Europe would have a better chance to combine with London's stock exchange.
 Magnus Bocker, OMX's chief executive, who had been in talks with potential exchange partners including London in the past, will become president of the combined company.
 The London Stock Exchange also turned down other takeover offers, including one from the Macquarie Bank of Australia.
 London Stock Exchange shareholders have so far applauded Clara Furse, the chief executive, for her tough stance on price and her successful takeover defense strategy. The company's shares have risen 23 percent over the last 12 months. 
 Since OMX, which was also a possible takeover target for the London exchange, is now in rival hands, it may be more difficult for the London Stock Exchange to remain independent as consolidation inevitably continues, said Richard Hunter, head of British equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in London.
 The acquisition of OMX is expected to have annual cost savings before taxes of $100 million and revenue savings of $50 million, the two companies said Friday. Nasdaq OMX had a pro forma revenue of more than $1.2 billion in 2006, they said.
 Nasdaq was advised by JPMorgan Chase. The Credit Suisse Group and Morgan Stanley advised OMX.
 OMX was founded in 1985 and two years later became the world's first bourse to have its own shares traded on the stock market. 
 Competition for exchange ownership has heated up recently on both sides of the Atlantic. Nasdaq's rival, the NYSE Group, bought Euronext of Paris, for $14.3 billion last month to create the first trans-Atlantic stock exchange.
 Deutsche Borse, which operates the Frankfurt stock exchange, agreed in April to buy International Securities Exchange Holdings for about $2.8 billion to create the largest trans-Atlantic derivatives market. 
 Stock exchanges also started to buy minority stakes in each other to increase the chances of access to other markets. NYSE said in January that it would pay $115 million to purchase 5 percent of the National Stock Exchange in India. 
 The Tokyo Stock Exchange signed a cooperation agreement with the New York Stock Exchange in January and Deutsche Borse has agreed to buy 5 percent of the Bombay Stock Exchange for $43 million.
 Exchanges may also face competition in Europe from their own customers as a group of investment banks plans to set up a pan-European share trading platform called Project Turquoise. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Greifeld, Nasdaq's chief executive, left, and Magnus Bocker, chief executive at OMX, in Stockholm announcing a new relationship. (Photo by Anders Wiklund/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ACQUISITIONS (72%)

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); MACQUARIE BANK LTD (51%)

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); MBL (ASX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: ROBERT GREIFELD (90%); CLARA FURSE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SWEDEN (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); FINLAND (78%); ICELAND (73%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



520 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: As Condos Rise in South Florida, Nervous Investors Try to Flee

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 25 

 BODY:
As dozens of condominium towers conceived during Florida's real estate boom near completion, investors who snatched up units in the preconstruction phase in hopes of turning a quick profit are increasingly trying to break contracts, even walking away from fat deposits.
 ''Motivated'' sellers are flooding online forums like Craigslist with advertisements for condo units still months or years from being finished. And lawyers have been inundated with calls from people hoping to avoid closing on units they bought during the speculative craze of 2004 and 2005.
''I get two or three of these calls a day,'' said James Ryan, a lawyer in Boca Raton who said he had 40 clients looking to get out of condo contracts. One, Mr. Ryan said, abandoned a $340,000 deposit rather than close on a $1.6 million unit that lost its appeal as the market faltered. 
 The numbers suggest that it will only get worse. In Miami-Dade County alone, 8,000 new condo units will be completed this year and nearly 12,000 more in 2008. 
 But demand has dropped markedly, and people who thought they could ''flip'' condos -- buying, then selling for a steep profit before construction is done -- are parting with that fantasy. After years of stunning price increases -- 25 percent in the West Palm Beach-Boca Raton area, for example, from March 2005 to March 2006 -- condo prices have started dropping. 
 Condominiums in West Palm Beach and Boca Raton sold for a median price of $211,800 in March, down from $224,600 a year earlier, according to the Florida Association of Realtors. And in Fort Lauderdale, the median price in March was $195,500, down from $202,600 the previous year.
 As a result, many buyers want out -- not an easy prospect unless they are willing to forfeit the 10 percent or 20 percent they put down, from $15,000 for an inexpensive studio unit to hundreds of thousands of dollars for a waterfront penthouse. 
 ''I see buyers unleashing all possible means to try to get out of contracts,'' said Gary Saul, a lawyer in Miami for developers, adding that in some projects, 20 percent of buyers want their money back. 
 Frank Scarfone, a retired engineer who bought two preconstruction units at Hollywood Station, a complex going up in Hollywood, is seeking to cancel his contracts. Each unit is priced at $300,000. The developer promised a city view from both units, Mr. Scarfone said, but now another building in the complex is blocking it -- a change that he said made the contracts unenforceable.
 He sent a letter demanding his total deposit of $120,000 back, and after getting no reply, picketed the developer's office. Then Mr. Scarfone called a lawyer, Matthew Schlesinger, who has been unable to recoup the deposit so far. 
 ''If we have to sue,'' Mr. Scarfone said, ''we're planning on suing.''
 Tom Leon, a retired business executive who moved here from Illinois, said he planned to give up $200,000 in deposits on two condo units in Miami, priced at $500,000 each, after finding ''no loopholes'' in his contracts. He said he was not especially bitter, since he had made money flipping other properties at the height of the boom.
 ''I'm of the frame of mind that you have to be prepared in business or investments to take a loss,'' said Mr. Leon, 72, adding that he never had any intention of living in either of the units. ''There are some people that mentally can never bring themselves around to that, especially in real estate. But there's a time to hold and a time to fold, and in my opinion, this is a time to fold.''
 The condo mania of recent years also beset cities like Las Vegas, Phoenix and Washington, but while those markets are also full of resales, analysts say South Florida drew the most investors.
 ''Between the Latin American influence and the out-of-state buyers who have a love affair with Miami because of its ambience,'' said Jack McCabe, a consultant in Deerfield Beach who tracks the South Florida housing market, ''they flocked to it and pushed it to the point where about 70 percent of all sales were to investors.''
 Real estate analysts say South Florida's housing market peaked late in 2005, and would-be flippers stopped buying in 2006. People who bought condos before 2005 might still make money or at least break even if they sell soon, the analysts say, but those who bought at the height of the mania stand to lose a bundle.
 Ann Nortmann, a sales associate with Majestic Properties, said one of her clients, a New Yorker, bought 11 condo units in Miami starting in 2004 and has sold six -- the last at a $40,000 loss. Ms. Nortmann and others said that with the glut of properties for sale, it might be more prudent to lose a deposit than hold onto a condo indefinitely.
 Many speculative condo buyers were foreigners, especially Latin Americans looking to shelter their wealth from precarious economies in their home countries. Mr. Schlesinger said he was trying to help some Colombian investors get out of contracts in a project on the Miami River, a hot area during the boom, where prices are now languishing. 
 Getting out of real estate contracts is hard, Mr. Schlesinger said, because under state law, buyers have to prove that developers ''materially'' changed a project in a way that is ''adverse'' to the buyer. Many buyers want soaring property insurance rates to fall into that category. But a new state law says they cannot. 
 ''About half the time I have to tell people, 'Listen, there's nothing I can do,' '' said Mr. Schlesinger, adding that 20 percent of his clients end up forfeiting deposits.
 Gregg Covin, a developer building Ten Museum Park, a downtown high-rise overlooking Biscayne Bay, said that none of his buyers had lost down payments, but that 45 out of 200 had resold their units before closing, often at the same price they paid in 2003 and to so-called vulture investors looking to scoop up multiple units at pre-boom prices. 
 Like many other developers, Mr. Covin requires original buyers looking to resell to do so through an in-house program, and keeps a 6 percent commission. Because his is one of the first boom-time buildings to be finished, he said -- closings are taking place this month -- he has had no problem finding replacement buyers.
 ''Right now, today, there is no shortage of end-users in Miami for finished, nice product,'' Mr. Covin said.
 Still, the few new buildings that have opened report many units up for resale. In Blue, a downtown high-rise that opened last year, 87 of the 330 units, or 26 percent, are back on the market, according to the Multiple Listing Service. In One Miami, which also opened downtown last year, 155 of the 800 units, or 19 percent, are for sale. 
 ''When you drive by in the daytime, they are gorgeous,'' Mr. McCabe said. ''But when you drive by at night, there's no furniture on the patios and only one light on out of 10.''
 This being South Florida, some are figuring out how to profit from the downturn. 
 Mark Zilbert, a real estate agent, recently started CondoSuperCenter.com, a clearinghouse for people willing to resell preconstruction units at their original price. He said he expected thousands of listings.
 ''I ask if they'd be willing to sell at their 2003 price and walk away with their deposit back,'' Mr. Zilbert said. ''A lot of people are saying, 'Yes, please, yes, please, yes, please.' '' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gregg Covin says 45 of 200 preconstruction buyers in his condo tower in Miami have resold their units.
 Condominium tower projects started during a construction boom in Miami have begun to lose investors even before the buildings are complete. (Photographs by Barbara Fernandez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); LAWYERS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



521 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Activists at the Boardroom Door

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
SHAREHOLDER activism, which its proponents say is intended to make corporations more accountable, ethical, profitable and transparent, is ''threatening the future of American business.''
 So argues Martin Lipton, founding partner of the New York-based law firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, in a scathing article in The Conference Board Review. ''Activism, and the corporate governance changes it has brought about,'' he argues, ''have caused a shift in the board's role from guiding strategy and advising management to ensuring compliance and performing due diligence.''
He also says that new governance rules, along with the threat of personal liability, are forcing board members to spend less of their time trying to help companies improve. 
 Mr. Lipton adds that ''shareholder litigation against directors has grown to be a big business and a type of extortion.''
 Not surprisingly, he concludes that the litigation, coupled with the media attention and ''reputational damage to the directors who are sued,'' is making it hard to find qualified candidates to serve on boards. DEBT IS GOOD -- Forget all the talk about the national debt being out of control and the personal savings rate being negative, writes Kenneth L. Fisher, who runs a $30 billion global money management firm. The real problem is that Americans don't owe enough.
 ''Debt is so good, we could use much more of it,'' he writes in Financial Planning magazine.
 His argument is that Americans are underleveraged. If people borrowed more, they would have more money to spend and they would make the economy stronger.
 Mr. Fisher contends the average household is far from tapped out.
 He puts total household assets at $68.92 trillion, citing data from Standard & Poor's and the Federal Reserve flow-of-funds account. Total liabilities are $13.29 trillion, he says, which means people have lots of borrowing power.
 As for the negative savings rate, Mr. Fisher points out, as others have, that it does not include things like capital gains and contributions employers put into pension plans.
 ''Even worse is something called 'owner's imputed rent,' '' he adds. ''This is what the government accountants think homeowners should pay themselves to rent the homes they own and occupy. When you own your home outright, your official savings is reduced by this fictitious amount -- a sort of depreciation equivalent.''
 Mr. Fisher says if the imputed-rent charge were eliminated, the personal savings rate ''would increase dramatically -- from negative territory to over 7 percent of G.D.P.''
 He concludes, ''The savings rate simply doesn't reflect reality.'' GENIUS GRANTED -- If you have ever wondered how the ''genius grants,'' officially known as MacArthur Fellowships, are awarded, or why so few businesspeople get them, Harvard Business Review provides the answers.
 Daniel J. Socolow, the director of the MacArthur Fellows Program, said in a Q. and A. with Diane L. Coutu that the foundation does look for the extremely bright , but to say it is looking for geniuses is too limiting.
 ''We're looking for people who are trying to come up with something new, who play at putting things together in novel ways. There's no easy definition for that. That's why we use somewhat messy terms like 'exceptional creativity,' 'outstanding talent,' 'extraordinary originality,' 'insight' and 'potential.' ''
 However you describe them, potential recipients cannot apply for the $500,000 fellowship, which is given with absolutely no strings attached. They must be nominated by a group of people who remain anonymous. ''Final recommendations are made to the foundation's board by a group of people we call selectors,'' Mr. Socolow said. There are about a dozen of them and they serve three- to five-year terms.
 As for businesspeople, Mr. Socolow said, ''we have yet to consider a business nominee for whom the market wasn't a better source of support than we would be.'' FINAL TAKE -- Hasbro is replacing the paper money in its Game of Life board game with Visa cards, reports Money magazine, which asks, ''What's next, dollhouses with helocs?'' (that is, home equity lines of credit). PAUL B. BROWN

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAVINGS RATES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (87%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (79%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (71%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); ACCOUNTING (50%)

COMPANY: WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: KENNETH FISHER (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



522 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Fox's Library: Tribute to Democracy or Ego?

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; Antonio Betancourt contributed reporting from San Cristobal and Elisabeth Malkin from Mexico City.

DATELINE: SAN CRISTOBAL, Mexico, May 25 

 BODY:
Swept into office in 2000 in Mexico's first real democratic election, former President Vicente Fox is breaking ground again, this time on a library devoted to his often stormy tenure.
 Mr. Fox, who left office last year, envisions the library and museum, rising from the dust on his family's ranch here, as a scholarly refuge devoted to the study of his place in history. There will be an academic center dedicated to democratization across the world, a collection of Mr. Fox's presidential papers and an exhibition hall.
Still, the very notion of a presidential library has roiled many in Mexico's chattering classes, who are used to seeing their former leaders, who can only serve a single six-year term, fade into the shadows. Indeed, the newspaper Reforma has given the project an amusement park name: ''Foxilandia.'' 
 Mr. Fox, 64, an ebullient former soft-drink executive who has always been comfortable in the public eye, is not the retiring type. In the months since he left office, he has hit the lecture circuit, where he continues to offer opinions on everything from the bitterly contested Mexican presidential election last year to his disdain for President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela.
 His comments have caused many Mexicans to cringe, especially those who think he did not live up to expectations, presided over rising drug violence and a weak economy, and largely failed to realize his ambitious agenda.
 ''If he was a bad president, he's a worse ex-president,'' the political consultant Manuel Villa wrote in El Financiero newspaper in February.
 George Grayson, a Mexico expert at the College of William and Mary in Virginia, said, ''In many ways, Fox's museum symbolizes his unproductive, self-absorbed, ego-driven administration.''
 But Mr. Fox dismisses the critics who expected him to simply disappear.
 ''I'm a citizen -- just a democratic citizen with convictions,'' he said Friday at the ranch, with his wife, Marta Sahagun de Fox, at his side. ''I can walk where I want. My direction is in progress. I don't want to sit here and look at the trees and die.''
 Mr. Fox was inspired by former President Bill Clinton's library in Arkansas. Like Mr. Clinton, he hopes that his library will give him a say in how his presidency is remembered.
 Mr. Fox said that the library will cost several million dollars and that it will be financed privately. He hopes part of it will open in November.
 ''There are donations of five pesos and $1 and donations of much more,'' he said during a tour of the construction site on Friday. He was dressed in his trademark jeans, plaid shirt, cowboy hat and boots.
 Some see it appropriate that Mr. Fox, who helped transform Mexican presidents from strongmen into executives more accountable to the people, would also help rewrite how former presidents should act.
 ''The rules have been changing in Mexico, both on how presidents govern and now on how they act when they are finished governing,'' said Jeffrey Davidow, who was the American ambassador to Mexico during part of Mr. Fox's tenure. ''Fox altered one paradigm and is now altering the other.''
 That seems to be true. Mr. Fox recently criticized Venezuela's move toward socialism, prompting Mr. Chavez to fire back with an insult. Mr. Fox's successor, Felipe Calderon, stayed out of that fight, although the head of the National Action Party, to which both men belong, came to Mr. Fox's defense.
 Mr. Fox also reopened a few wounds with his comments on the presidential election. At a forum in Washington, he suggested that it was a victory for him when his chosen successor, Mr. Calderon, edged out the leftist candidate, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, by less than 1 percent of the vote, but the remark vexed supporters of Mr. Lopez Obrador.
 The other four living former presidents have been far quieter in their retirement, though previous Mexican leaders have not been shy about erecting monuments to themselves. For instance, President Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna, best known north of the border as the leader of the attack on the Alamo, built one for his amputated leg.
 Mr. Fox said his library will include all the papers and letters from his years in office, whether they put him in a favorable light or not. In all, he said, the center will contain several million documents and thousands of hours of videos, giving Mexicans an unprecedented look into how their government functions.
 ''I don't know if it will take off as a Mexican tradition,'' said Andrew Selee, director of the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington. ''Other presidents may not want to do it. It may be a one-shot deal.''
 Mr. Selee sees Mr. Fox's presidency as most here do: a mixed bag. ''Fox will be remembered as the first president to really open up Mexico's democracy and probably as a president who squandered a lot of opportunities to do more,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former President Vicente Fox and his wife, Marta Sahagun de Fox, at their ranch on Friday. Some critics want him to fade into the shadows. (Photo by Ronaldo Schemidt/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) MEXICO (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



523 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-8 U.S. Said to Be Developing Plan for Troop Reduction The Bush administration is developing what are described as concepts for reducing American combat forces in Iraq by as much as half next year, according to officials familiar with the debate. It is the first indication that political pressure is forcing the White House to turn its attention to what happens after the current troop increase runs its course. A1 Democrats on the Senate Intelligence Committee accused the Bush administration of ignoring pre-invasion warnings from the nation's spy agencies that a war in Iraq could be followed by violence and division and that it could strengthen the hand of Al Qaeda and Iran. A8 The populist Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr appeared in public for the first time in months after what American officials have described as a lengthy period of refuge in Iran. 
 A6 Quiet Gains for Algerian Women In Algeria, a tradition-bound nation scarred by a brutal Islamist-led civil war that killed more than 100,000, a quiet revolution is under way: women are emerging as an economic and political force unheard of in the rest of the Arab world. A1 Battle Over Troops in Ukraine President Viktor A. Yushchenko of Ukraine issued a decree putting Interior Ministry troops under his command, but the ministry, joined by Prime Minister Viktor F. Yanukovich, declared the move unconstitutional and defied it. A5 Turkish Election Bill is Vetoed President Ahmet Necdet Sezer vetoed a bill that would allow the Turkish president to be elected in a national ballot instead of by Parliament, as is currently the case. A2 Israeli Strikes Continue in Gaza The Israeli Army continued its airstrikes against the Hamas infrastructure in the Gaza Strip, hitting at least eight different locations, including a guard post close to the home of the Palestinian prime minister,according to Palestinian officials. A4 NATIONAL A9-A11; 14 Suit Details Relationship Of Clintons and Benefactor A shareholder lawsuit against InfoUSA, one of the nation's largest brokers of information on consumers, reveals significant new details about President Bill Clinton and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's relationship with an unusually generous benefactor whose business practices have lately come under scrutiny. A1 Florida Investors Try to Flee As hundreds of condominium towers conceived during Florida's real estate boom near completion, investors who snatched up units in the preconstruction phase in hopes of turning a quick profit are increasingly trying to break contracts. A9 Gulf Coast Rebuilding Costs Local and state governments in Gulf Coast areas that were hit by the 2005 hurricanes will no longer have to pay 10 percent of the cost of repairing their roads, schools and other public works under a provision of the emergency war spending bill. A9 Missile Defense Test Aborted A test of a new Pentagon system to defend against long-range ballistic missiles was halted because the target rocket fell far short of the designated interceptor range in the Pacific, officials announced. A10 Libby Sentence Recommended The prosecutor who won the conviction of I. Lewis Libby Jr. on four felony counts asked a federal judge to sentence him to 30 to 37 months in jail. A11 Democrats Take Stock Congressional Democratic leaders say their principal accomplishment, so far, is the transformation of the policy debate and the reassertion of Congressional power, especially on the Iraq war. A11 Candidates Debate War Votes The two leading Democratic presidential candidates who voted against a bill to fund the war in Iraq because it did not set a timetable to withdraw the troops quickly found their votes attacked by Republicans. A14 NEW YORK/REGION B1-6 Questions Surround Future Of Rochester's Waterfront Rochester, N.Y., paid $32 million for a high-speed ferry as a way to revive its economy and its waterfront by shuttling thousands of passengers a day to and from Canada. But the costly and controversial venture failed -- leaving the city shouldering millions of dollars in debt. B1 Religion Journal B6 SPORTSSATURDAY D1-6 Top Cyclist Admits Drug Use Bjarne Riis, a Danish cyclist who won the 1996 Tour de France, admitted that he used several banned drugs while competing in the 1990s, becoming the first champion of the sport's most prestigious competition to confess to doping. A1 Yankees Boss Criticizes Team George Steinbrenner, the owner of the Yankees, has created anxiety around his underperforming team with comments that put pressure on general manager Brian Cashman and bluntly criticized slugger Jason Giambi. D1 OBITUARIES C10 Harold E. Froehlich A resourceful engineer who helped design the Alvin, the deep-diving exploratory submarine used to recover a misplaced hydrogen bomb in the 1960s and to explore the Titanic wreck, he was 84. C10 ARTS B7-15 O'Donnell Departs Early Rosie O'Donnell, who was scheduled to leave the cast of ''The View'' on June 20, will not return to the talk show after the Memorial Day weekend, ABC announced. B7 BUSINESS DAY C1-9 Second Cars Are Small Cars With gas prices well over $3 a gallon, drivers are lining up to buying small cars. But they are parking them in their driveways alongside S.U.V.s or pickups, approaching conservation as addition, not subtraction. A1 Diabetes Drug Study at Risk GlaxoSmithKline's clinical study to analyze the cardiovascular safety of Avandia, its popular diabetes drug, may be in jeopardy as a result of this week's disclosures that the drug poses serious cardiac risks. C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A12-13 Editorials: Ensuring progress at ground zero; budget battle lines; a say on executive pay; 'I should be dead.' Columns: Bob Herbert and Atul Gawande. Bridge A14 Crossword B10 TV Listings B15 Weather B16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ARMIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); ESPIONAGE (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); TERRORISM (74%); HAMAS (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); WEATHER (70%); AL-QAEDA (69%); ELECTION LAW (69%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (61%); LITIGATION (61%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (57%); AHMET NECDET SEZER (51%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); IRAQ (93%); UKRAINE (92%); ALGERIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); TURKEY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



524 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Budget Battle Lines

 BODY:
The federal budget for 2008, agreed to last week by the House and Senate, puts Congress in good shape to move forward responsibly on many of the nation's pressing needs. But the Bush administration seems determined to stand in the way. 
 The next step in the process is for Congress to pass 13 spending bills to allocate nearly $960 billion from the budget. The bills will fund activities that affect every American, including defense, diplomacy, education, environmental protection, food safety, homeland security, housing, infrastructure repair, local law enforcement, scientific research, transportation and veteran's health care.
But no sooner did Congress announce a budget agreement then the White House threatened to veto spending that exceeds levels suggested by President Bush last February. Mr. Bush only wants to increase funding for the Pentagon -- he requested $40 billion more than was granted this year. From everything else, he wants lawmakers to find a total of about $10 billion in cuts from this year's budget. Mr. Bush hasn't dictated what lawmakers must ax, but he has suggested cuts in education funding, which includes college aid and money for local school districts; in transportation, including money for mass transit; and in aid to cities. 
 Similar cuts proposed by Mr. Bush last year were considered so ill-advised that even the then-Republican majority could not muster enough votes to pass them. 
 In threatening to veto, the White House has tried to portray itself as fiscally prudent and Congress as spendthrift. The real difference is between an administration willing to starve basic government services -- in favor of tax cuts and financing a disastrous war -- and a Congress that is trying, within means, to run a responsive government. 
 In Congress's budget, lawmakers have agreed to give Mr. Bush every penny he requested for defense. And they have budgeted a relatively modest increase in nondefense spending of $13.5 billion over this year's level -- a 3.1 percent increase, after inflation. That's about one-tenth of the annual cost of the Iraq war or one-eighteenth of this year's cost for the Bush tax cuts. Even with that spending increase, nondefense appropriations would be lower in 2008, as a share of the economy, than in every year from 2001 through 2006. 
 Heeding the needs or the will of ordinary Americans has never been Mr. Bush's strong suit. On the 2008 budget, he should stop posturing and start working with lawmakers, for the good of his own legacy and for all the people who need the government's services and protections. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); FOOD SAFETY (56%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



525 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Rebuffs Germany on Greenhouse Gas Cuts

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and ANDREW C. REVKIN; Helene Cooper reported from Washington, and Andrew C. Revkin from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 25 

 BODY:
The United States has rejected Germany's proposal for deep long-term cuts in greenhouse gas emissions, setting the stage for a battle that will pit President Bush against his European allies at next month's meeting of the world's richest countries. 
 In unusually harsh language, Bush administration negotiators took issue with the German draft of the communique for the meeting of the Group of 8 industrialized nations, complaining that the proposal ''crosses multiple red lines in terms of what we simply cannot agree to.''
 ''We have tried to tread lightly, but there is only so far we can go given our fundamental opposition to the German position,'' the American response said.
 Germany, backed by Britain and now Japan, has proposed cutting global greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent by 2050. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who will be the host of the meeting in the Baltic Sea resort of Heiligendamm next month, has been pushing hard to get the Group of 8 to take significant action on climate change.
 It had been a foregone conclusion that the Western European members of the Group of 8 -- Germany, Italy, France and Britain -- would back the reductions. But on Thursday, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan threw his lot in with the Europeans, and proposed cutting carbon emissions as part of a new framework to replace the Kyoto Protocol, whose mandatory caps on gases end in 2012. 
 ''The Kyoto Protocol was the first, concrete step for the human race to tackle global warming, but we must admit that it has limitations,'' Mr. Abe said at a conference in Tokyo. He specifically called on the United States and China, the biggest producers of carbon emissions, to lead the fight against global warming. 
 The United States has refused to ratify the Kyoto Protocol because of concerns about damage to the American economy. Bush administration officials have also balked because China and India are not part of it. 
 The push back by the Bush administration over the German proposal has left many European diplomats furious. ''The United States, on this issue, is virtually isolated,'' one European diplomat said on condition of anonymity under diplomatic rules, and then added, ''with the exception of other big polluters.''
 Both Ms. Merkel and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain have, in private talks with President Bush, pushed for the United States to agree to the European proposal. 
 Kristen A. Hellmer, a spokeswoman for the White House on environmental issues, said: ''All the G-8 countries are committed to pursuing an agreement. We just come at it from different perspectives.''
 A clearly disappointed Ms. Merkel, speaking to Germany's lower house of Parliament on Thursday, sought to lower expectations that Mr. Bush would agree to the more ambitious agenda sought by Europe and Japan. ''I can say quite openly that, today, I don't know whether we will succeed in that at Heiligendamm,'' she said. 
 The United States, with less than 5 percent of the world's population, produces between a fifth and a quarter of the world's emissions, according to government data. 
 Emissions in Europe and the United States have been slowing of late, with a slight drop in the United States in 2006. But much more growth is forecast by various agencies on both sides of the Atlantic and particularly in Asia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (93%); EMISSIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SHINZO ABE (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (78%); TONY BLAIR (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007



526 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Bankers Behaving Badly

BYLINE: By RICHARD PARKER. 
Richard Parker, an economist, teaches at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. He is the author of ''John Kenneth Galbraith: His Life, His Politics, His Economics.''

 BODY:
Some years ago, a New Yorker cartoon depicted a middle-aged, big-haired, overweight and badly dressed woman striding energetically down the street, with Manhattan's skyline in the background. Her too-snug T-shirt displayed the large black initials ''DKNJ.'' The caption beneath read simply, ''Donna Karan's nightmare.''
 A somewhat similar fate, to judge by William D. Cohan's ''Last Tycoons,'' seems to have befallen Lazard Freres & Company. For more than a century, the legendary firm was considered by many in the clubby world of high finance the quintessence of investment banking, with its aristocratic European hauteur, superlative trans-Atlantic connections and unmatched savoir-faire in the advice it dispensed to ultra-wealthy individual and corporate clients. Although much smaller than better-known rivals like Goldman Sachs, Lazard engendered awe among Wall Street insiders. 
 Cohan, who once worked at Lazard, tells a sprawling, gossip-filled tale about the firm, the careful cultivation of its lustrous reputation and, in the last decade or so, that reputation's apparent undoing. It is far from an epic tragedy -- the story is, after all, about money and its most avid pursuers. Moreover, in dollar terms, Lazard -- however dimmed its reputation -- is seemingly thriving as never before, its stock price having doubled in the past two years. 
 But Cohan's portrayal of the firm's dominant partners -- whose gargantuan appetites and mercurial habits provide the unifying force behind the book's operatic melodramas -- makes this an epic in its own way. In fact, ''The Last Tycoons'' bears a striking resemblance to F. Scott Fitzgerald's ''Last Tycoon.'' Fitzgerald set his novel in Hollywood, and described lives, temperaments and ambitions that closely approximate those of Lazard's most important figures. Of course, Cohan isn't Fitzgerald. After 700 pages, many will come away feeling the bank's story might work better as a tale told by Hollywood -- a French-accented ''Dynasty'' meets ''What Makes Sammy Run?'' 
 In this book, the bank's five most prominent modern-day partners -- Andre Meyer, Felix Rohatyn, Michel David-Weill, Steven Rattner and Bruce Wasserstein -- share tumultuous center stage. Because most Americans won't recognize their names, Cohan meticulously details the impressive (but not entirely winning) reasons for their outsize reputations among denizens of Wall Street, the Upper East Side and the Hamptons. 
 Long the dominant force, Andre Meyer (who died in 1979) wasn't a Lazard, but shared deep Alsatian Jewish roots with the family. Such connections mattered, as the firm's birth and rise make clear. In the 1840s, three Lazard brothers left Alsace for New Orleans. Decamping soon thereafter for San Francisco -- and joined by another brother and a cousin -- they quickly made a fortune as dry goods merchants after the 1849 gold rush. By the 1880s, the Lazard clan had shrewdly used a small but profitable sideline -- the shipping, trading and apparently early arbitraging of gold, silver and currency -- to reinvent the family as trans-Atlantic bankers for an elite clientele, with offices in New York, London and Paris.
 For the next half-century -- thanks to rapid industrialization, global investing, expensive wars and profitable arms races -- Lazard thrived as an adviser to corporations and governments, and at the expense of much larger, WASP-dominated competitors. The firm skirted bankruptcy more than once, but each time recovered stronger than ever.
 New York became the most powerful and profitable of Lazard's three branches, owing to Meyer's courtship of Manhattan's fast-rising Jewish Brahminate. The firm was also helped by his courtship, frequently amorous, of a succession of beautiful and beautifully connected society wives and widows -- most famously, in his later years, Jacqueline Kennedy. 
 Meyer's protege Felix Rohatyn once said about his mentor: ''He wanted to be loved. He had a great sense of buying and selling -- things and people. He was the most ruthless realistic analyst of human character I have ever met. ... I fought him every day for 20 years. You had to. If you didn't fight him, you were finished. ... He destroyed a lot of people.'' Much of the book provides the evidence for that testimony.
 Under Meyer's tutelage, Rohatyn prospered, becoming the firm's pre-eminent deal maker by engineering a string of high-profile corporate mergers and takeovers in the 1960s and early '70s -- while carefully never challenging Meyer's need for total control. Rohatyn's gifts were not unalloyed: he more than once worked at the darkly clouded intersection between politics and business -- most notoriously involving Harold Geneen, ITT, Chile and Richard Nixon -- and thereby badly tarnished his and the firm's reputation for a time. But when New York nearly collapsed in the mid-'70s, the city called on Rohatyn to put its finances back in order. Manhattan and its powerful media adored him, transforming ''Felix the Fixer'' into a much-sought-after pundit and Democratic Party economic policy maven. 
 By the late '70s, Meyer's age and health required a successor -- a position that Rohatyn declined and that instead fell to Michel David-Weill, whose family, along with Meyer's, then still controlled Lazard. But his tenure soon brought challenges as contradictory and destructive as any bred under Meyer. The wave of corporate permutations and consolidations in the '80s made Lazard ever more influential and profitable -- and induced it to hire a talented new crop of bankers from comparatively middle-class backgrounds. Among these, Steven Rattner and Bruce Wasserstein would prove defining figures at the bank, for better and for worse. 
 Rattner, the son of a paint manufacturer from Long Island, went to Lazard after reporting for The New York Times, where he forged an important friendship with Arthur Sulzberger Jr., now the publisher. Assigned to the Washington bureau, Rattner, Cohan suggests, too eagerly befriended some of the city's most influential deal makers, men who would eventually help him move on to investment banking.
 Rattner's Rolodex of media and political connections helped make millions upon millions for Lazard, his clients and himself as he midwifed some of the richest deals in the '90s. His success resulted in a bitter rivalry with Rohatyn, but more important, it led David-Weill to make Rattner the deputy chief executive officer. Rattner soon let his new position overshadow that of David-Weill -- an error Rohatyn had avoided with Meyer. David-Weill overthrew Rattner after he tried to restructure the New York, London and Paris offices in ways that threatened the Frenchman's power. Rattner's departure set the stage for the arrival of Bruce Wasserstein. 
 The Brooklyn-born son of a ribbon manufacturer, Wasserstein had briefly worked as a Nader's Raider before turning to investment banking, where his brilliant but often very expensive deals earned him the nickname Bid-'Em-Up Bruce. Wasserstein is Lazard's chief executive today because he outmaneuvered David-Weill, forcing Lazard from private partnership to public company. The shift destroyed the byzantine structure that had given Meyer and David-Weill their unrivaled control, but also brought unwanted scrutiny to the myriad struggles that had long been concealed behind the firm's impeccably upright reputation. Yet ignominy aside, going public vastly enriched Wasserstein, the partners who joined him -- and even David-Weill. 
 In many of its details, ''The Last Tycoons'' will captivate those closest to the industry. They will learn that David-Weill's percentage of the firm's profits was 25.7552 in 1977, that Lazard paid $100 million to settle a municipal bond kickback scandal, even which senior partner preferred the Hoyo de Monterrey Epicure No. 1 brand of illegal Cuban cigars. But for a general audience, there is little that will seem new after two decades of Enrons, Worldcoms and Milkens -- all tales of similarly motivated men, the Masters of the Universe. We hear about the requisite amorous indiscretions (even a lurid S-and-M-tinged homicide), overconspicuous consumption, petty vanities and betrayals, and the habitual collecting of high-priced art and oversize homes.
 Judging the art collection left by Meyer after his death, a writer remarked that it was ''a glorious triumph of mystique over substance.'' One is tempted to imagine that line as a caption for some future cartoon depicting a middle-aged, overweight and badly dressed banker, with Manhattan's skyline in the background, dressed in a bespoke tab-collared, French-cuffed shirt with the monogrammed initials ''LFNJ.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Helen Yentus) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%)

COMPANY: LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (71%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: BRUCE WASSERSTEIN (55%); STEVEN RATTNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Last Tycoons, The: The Secret History of Lazard Freres & Co. (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2008



527 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: My Year of Vegetables

BYLINE: By CORBY KUMMER. 
Corby Kummer is a senior editor of The Atlantic Monthly. His most recent book is ''The Pleasures of Slow Food.''

 BODY:
ANIMAL, VEGETABLE, MINERAL
 A Year of Food Life.
 By Barbara Kingsolver 
 with Steven L. Hopp and Camille Kingsolver.
 Drawings by Richard A. Houser.
 370 pp. HarperCollins Publishers. $26.95.
A few years ago, the novelist Barbara Kingsolver packed her husband and two daughters into a car and left their home in Tucson for good, resettling on a farm in southern Appalachia. Their intention was to spend a year of their new rural life eating only what they could grow themselves or buy from local suppliers. The plan was no whim. Kingsolver and her husband, Steven L. Hopp, a biologist who teaches environmental studies, had been raising fruit and vegetables at Hopp's farm every summer since they met.
 Kingsolver, it emerges, is hardly unsuited to her new project, documented in ''Animal, Vegetable, Mineral,'' an engaging amalgam of memoir, environmental reporting and how-to book. She won the Betty Crocker Homemaker of Tomorrow Award in 1972 and studied biology in college and graduate school. Deeply frugal, she was raised in Kentucky among people who still remembered the hunger of the Depression, and she herself recalls qualifying for food stamps in the odd-jobs days before she hit the best-seller lists. Her activism also started early, when she watched farmers founder as they tried to wean themselves from tobacco. 
 Things are better now. Kentucky farmers sell pasture-raised pork, lamb and turkey, and even ''Kentucky caviar'' from farmed fish. The farmers' market supplies salad greens when it's only starting to get warm. Local farms have meat and eggs year-round. Supermarkets become quick stops for dairy products and locally milled flour. Rules are bent for spices, and each family member gets a wild card at the outset: Kingsolver's husband logically picks coffee (fair-trade and organic, it goes without saying), though the fresh fruit that her older daughter, Camille, craves is a bit too much (she has to settle for dried). So the hardship of Kingsolver's planned abstinence isn't that great. Nevertheless, with the passing months, the rigors of sticking to the seasons sink in.
 Economic and physical realities sink in too. Kingsolver's 9-year-old, Lily, goes into the poultry business, calculating how many eggs and chickens she must sell to earn money for a horse. Death as a part of life -- and, especially, eating -- is unavoidable. Lily won't name her chickens, so she can face killing and selling them. Her mother, an unapologetic meat-eater, points out that vegetarians kill living plants, not to mention the insects and field animals that inevitably fall to the harvesting process. ''You can leave the killing to others and pretend it never happened,'' she writes, ''or you can look it in the eye and know it.'' As for sweat and mud, no one shies from either. Kingsolver finishes one May evening ''aching and hungry'' and decides that ''labors like this help a person appreciate why good food costs what it does. It ought to cost more.''
 This is a message Americans can't hear often enough. So are the many others Kingsolver has researched with admirable thoroughness, delivering them with a casual urgency that only occasionally veers into preachiness. (''California vegetables are not the serpent, it's all of us who open our veins to the flow of gas-fueled foods.'') The book is a useful guide for the apprentice activist, picking up where Kingsolver's friend and mentor Joan Dye Gussow left off with ''This Organic Life.'' Kingsolver's husband contributes sidebars on the hazards and inequities of industrial agriculture, along with advice on how to make yourself heard at the local supermarket and by legislators debating farm bills.
 Kingsolver remains aware of how challenging most readers will find her program. It comes as a relief, for instance, when she says that stress-reducing Fridays are invariably pizza night -- and then it turns out that the pizza is made from scratch. But she generally succeeds at adopting the warm tone of a confiding friend who can win you over with self-deprecating, you-too-can-make-cheese-every-day enthusiasm. And she does want you to think seriously about following her example, even if you're gardenless. At the end of the year, she finds that she has fed her family for under 50 cents a head per meal. ''It doesn't cost a fortune, in other words. Nor does it require a pickup truck, or a calico bonnet.''
 What is likely to win the most converts, though, is the joy Kingsolver takes in food. She isn't just an ardent preserver, following the summertime canning rituals of her farming forebears. She's also an ardent cook, and there's some lovely food writing here. The proper time for ''grabling'' a new potato -- searching underground with your fingers; who knew that verb? -- is ''just before dinner: like corn, new potatoes are sweetest if you essentially boil them alive.'' Kingsolver's older daughter, Camille, who goes off to college midway through the experiment, is a bred-in-the-bone cook too. She contributes postscripts to each chapter with sensible nutrition information and friendly, often easy recipes with much of her mother's polished, engaging manner.
 ''Animal, Vegetable, Mineral'' moves at an absorbing pace -- especially the first two thirds, with all the adventure of laying out a garden and organizing a farm that can largely sustain a family, and with engaged, meaty reports on Kingsolver's coming up to speed with current food politics. The last third has its longueurs, especially an extraneous expedition to Italy, where naturally (and a bit implausibly) everyone eats with perfect respect for food and companionship. An account of Kingsolver's foray into turkey husbandry seems protracted, although it does set up a suitably moving and celebratory conclusion.
 The link Kingsolver adds to the ''locavore'' movement, if we agree to adopt that name, is a human one -- not just to the people who grow and make food but to the people who eat it together. ''When I'm cooking,'' she writes, ''I find myself inhabiting the emotional companionship of the person who taught me how to make a particular dish, or with whom I used to cook it.'' This sharing, along with a dirt-under-the-fingernails appreciation of the food in the ground and on the table, is the heart of the book. You get the idea that Kingsolver was sorry when the year was over and the rules could be relaxed -- although her daughter wasn't sorry to get that horse.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 27, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a review on Page 11 of the Book Review today misstates part of the title of the book by Barbara Kingsolver with Steven L. Hopp and Camille Kingsolver. As noted in the table of contents, it is ''Animal, Vegetable, Miracle'' -- not ''Mineral.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ANIMALS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); POULTRY (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); BESTSELLERS (77%); FOOD RECALLS (73%); PORK (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (63%); FOOD STAMPS (52%); AQUACULTURE (50%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



528 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: VENTURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: For Some Investors, Money Grows on Trees

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
WHEN a tree falls in a forest, chances are that it can be heard all the way to Wall Street, and throughout other financial circles as well. 
 Once the exclusive province of businesses and individual land owners, timberland is being held increasingly by big institutions -- from pension funds and university endowments to private funds and real estate investment trusts -- that are looking for new ways to diversify their investments.
 According to industry estimates, financial institutions now own nearly 5 percent of the forests of loblolly pine, Douglas fir and other widely harvested trees in the United States, and that percentage is expected to widen. A significant portion of the timberland is held through privately run timber investment management organizations, or TIMOs. Twenty-five or so years ago, their exposure was virtually nonexistent. 
 Why the interest in this asset class? For one thing, returns have been, well, solid and growing. Timberland produces revenue from sales to lumber and paper companies, with uses ranging from home building to disposable-diaper production, along with long-term gains from the value of the property itself. 
 At the Hancock Timber Resource Group, a TIMO with $6.6 billion in assets and 3.8 million acres under management worldwide, returns after fees averaged 13.8 percent, annualized, from its inception in 1985 through last year, according to Courtland L. Washburn, the chief investment officer. The National Council of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries Timberland Property Index, meanwhile, rose at an annualized rate of 15.09 percent from its inception in 1986 through the first quarter of this year, and over the last three years through the quarter it returned 14.63 percent, exceeding the 12.25 percent annualized gain of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index over the same period. 
 Timber is also seen as a hedge against inflation and the fluctuations of most financial securities; analysts say it has a low correlation with stocks and bonds, meaning that its returns may well be rising when securities prices are falling.
 ''People are looking for that extra yield,'' said Maria Maslovsky, an analyst at the real estate finance group of Moody's Investors Service who has seen increased interest in alternative investments like timber in the last five years. ''It will become more mainstream over time.'' 
 Joel B. Shapiro, the chief executive of Timbervest, a TIMO based in Atlanta that manages more than 650,000 acres of timberland nationwide, agreed. He said that ''if there ever was a true hedge-fund investment, timberland is it.'' 
 ''Your investment becomes more valuable even if the investments are down,'' he said, ''because the trees themselves are growing more valuable.'' 
 But getting into timberland can be expensive, at least for the average investor. While there may be some limited partnerships with minimum investments in the six-figure range, most minimums at TIMOs, which function much the way private equity funds do, start at around $1 million and rise to as much as $10 million.
 ''You can buy your own wood lot, but there are no economies of scale,'' said Richard N. Smith, a founder of Hancock Timber Resource and now the president of Forest Systems, a company in North Easton, Mass., that provides consulting and forest management services. 
 For the smaller investor, Mr. Smith and others say, the most affordable option is to hold stocks of companies like Weyerhaeuser, based in Federal Way, Wash. Weyerhaeuser, through its forest products division and joint ventures, owns or manages 21.5 million acres of forests in North America, Australia, New Zealand and Uruguay. 
 Other large publicly traded companies like International Paper and Temple-Inland have either sold or plan to sell off most of their timberland.
 But there are also timber REITs from which to choose. They hold portfolios of timberland and disburse most of their profits to shareholders as dividends in exchange for favorable tax treatment. In addition, Congress is considering legislation, known as the TREE Act of 2007 (short for the Timber Revitalization and Economic Enhancement Act), that would lower the tax rates on timber properties to help the industry become more globally competitive.
 The largest of the REITs is the Plum Creek Timber Company, which is based in Seattle and holds more than eight million acres of timberland across 18 states. The company started as a limited partnership and converted to a REIT structure in 1999. 
 Rayonier Inc., based in Jacksonville, Fla., converted to a REIT in 2004; it owns or manages 2.5 million timberland acres in the United States and New Zealand. The Potlatch Corporation, based in Spokane, Wash., switched to REIT status as of last year and has 1.5 million acres. 
 A fourth REIT, the Longview Fibre Company of Longview, Wash., agreed in February to be acquired by Brookfield Asset Management of Toronto in a deal valued at $2.15 billion, including assumed debt. A new nontraded REIT, though, is starting: the Wells Timberland REIT, offered by the Wells Real Estate Funds. 
 The Wells REIT, which is available through brokers and financial planners and has a minimum investment of $5,000, plans to invest in timberland properties mainly in the Great Lakes, Northeast, Northwest and Southeast regions, according to Jess Jarratt, a veteran forester and Wells's chief timberland officer. So far, he said, ''there is a lot of positive buzz.''
 ''Our target investors are individuals looking for diversity in their portfolio,'' Mr. Jarratt said.
 Investors should be patient, too. The typical holding period for nonlisted funds and TIMOs is 10 years, and sometimes even longer, after which the sponsors must decide either to sell shares on a public exchange or to liquidate the properties and return the prorated proceeds to shareholders. Investors in REITs and other publicly traded companies, on the other hand, can sell their holdings at any time. 
 For now, industry analysts say the outlook for timber is generally positive, despite the current slowdown in the housing market. ''We're going to need to build new houses over time,'' said Steven Chercover, a vice president and senior research analyst at D. A. Davidson & Company.
 Still, Christopher Wimmer, an assistant vice president at Moody's, said, ''If you're in the wood products business, the slowdown in the housing industry is certainly putting some pressure on your earnings.'' He noted, too, that ''the yield has compressed like other real estate assets.'' 
 Plum Creek Timber said its first-quarter net income dropped 52 percent from the same period in 2006, reflecting softer timber markets and a drop in housing starts, while Potlatch said quarterly earnings from continuing operations plunged 92 percent from the period last year.
 Charles Margiotta, a senior vice president for business development at Rayonier and president of its real estate subsidiary, said his company was concerned about home sales as well, although ''the timber business hasn't been affected as we expected.''
 Strong demand for timber overseas, particularly in Asian markets like China, Japan and South Korea, has helped, he said. The company has also had steady revenue from its production of cellulose specialty products, which have a wide range of uses, from pharmaceuticals to paints to liquid-crystal display screens.
 Yet the real estate that Rayonier and other companies own -- with or without trees -- may ultimately be the most valuable asset. ''Over time that land is going to become golf courses, shopping centers or residences,'' Mr. Chercover said. And that, he said, would be unfortunate. ''Trees are a fabulous renewable resource,'' he said, ''and a great form of carbon sequestration,'' which could help counter global warming. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rayonier owns or manages 350,000 acres of timberland in New Zealand, above. Hancock Timber Resources' 3.8 million acres under management include land in Snoqualmie, Wash., left. (Photo by Rayonier)
 (Photo by Hancock Timber Resource Group) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); ENDOWMENTS (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING (67%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (63%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); HANCOCK TIMBER RESOURCE GROUP (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



529 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2998 words

HEADLINE: Newark Battles Murder and Its Accomplice, Silence

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Jigar Mehta contributed reporting.

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
The first of the week's three homicides took place on April 23 on a nettlesome drug block when a fight among a group of girls ended with a 16-year-old boy putting three slugs into a 32-year-old former felon who may or may not have had a role in the melee. Taking a page from the city's new get-tough anticrime playbook, Capt. Sheilah Coley, the commander of the blood-soaked Fifth Precinct, set up sawhorses at either end of Schley Street and deployed a half-dozen officers to jot down information on every pedestrian and vehicle entering the block. 
 ''We're going to shut them down,'' she said, explaining how the blockade would freeze drug activity and prevent retaliation.
But 22 hours later, as officers stood sentry in grueling eight-hour shifts, gunfire rang out. In the few moments it took officers to scurry down the block, the killer had vanished, leaving a man slumped in the street with a bullet in his face and bystanders who treated investigators like a band of pesky door-to-door salesmen, shrugging that they had witnessed nothing. 
 The following night, in a park three blocks from the station house, a circle of young men surrounded an 18-year-old college student and fired a single shot into his head. 
 ''I don't know what frustrates me more,'' Captain Coley sighed the next afternoon, an aromatherapy candle burning in her precinct office. ''These knuckleheads killing each other, or the residents who won't cooperate with my officers.''
 That lack of cooperation -- steeped in public mistrust that has been simmering at a low boil since the 1967 riots and fueled by hip-hop culture's ''stop snitching'' mantra -- is among the major roadblocks Mayor Cory A. Booker faces in his struggle to curb the lawlessness here in New Jersey's largest city.
 Mr. Booker, who took office in July after the 20-year reign of Sharpe James, has staked his career on a promise to stanch the bloodshed, and is relying on Garry F. McCarthy, the no-nonsense police director he lured from New York, to revolutionize the department.
 As documented in a blistering January report by outside consultants, they are fighting a war with a 1,250-member army plagued by low morale and ''Barney Miller''-era technology, with a shortage of patrol cars, lockers, computers and bullet-resistant vests. The battlefields are drug-drenched, gun-riddled neighborhoods like the Fifth's South Ward, where unemployment is rampant, teenagers steal cars out of boredom, and officers are routinely called to the same addresses to deal with violent family disputes.
 Complicating the situation is the department's own legacy of scandal and a patronage system that elevated inept officers and drove embittered veterans into better-paying jobs in neighboring towns. Recent years brought the arrest of several high-ranking officers and the jailing of a former director on corruption charges; Mr. James's last police chief was anointed despite a guilty plea for drinking in his car and then leading the police on a wild chase that ended with the assault of an officer.
 Mr. McCarthy has instructed commanders in the city's four precincts to take on so-called quality-of-life offenses like public drinking and loitering, following the ''broken windows'' theory that tolerating even small infractions can encourage more serious crimes. Many people have credited that approach with helping to reverse New York City's staggering homicide rate of two decades ago.
 Since he came to Newark in October, Mr. McCarthy has ramped up Compstat, the data-driven strategy that holds commanders accountable for every crime reported within their precincts, and created a menu of new units to take on narcotics, gangs, fugitives and police misconduct. Scores of officers have been moved to the busier evening shifts. 
 But while violent crime has dropped since January -- armed robberies are down 42 percent and auto theft 28 percent compared with the first five months of last year -- the pace of homicides has not let up since 2006, when 105 people, most of them young black men, were killed. 
 There is no better place to observe the progress and pitfalls than the Fifth Precinct, four square miles in the city's Southwest corner that, despite the construction of hundreds of vinyl-sided homes the last five years or so, still remains the city's most violent area.
 Mr. Booker adopted the Fifth on his first day in office, when he found that its 96-year-old station house, a cream-brick confection that sits at the crest of West Bigelow Street like some neglected chateau, had no functioning bathrooms and fist-size holes in the roof that funneled rainwater onto desks. 
 ''I don't know how anyone expects you to fight crime when you're working under such appalling conditions,'' he said on that first Saturday in July, dropping off his own desktop computer to officers typing crime reports on aged Smith-Coronas.
 He returned last month to find a dozen new computers on officers' desks, and to celebrate a $410,000 renovation that patched the leaky roof and banished the pigeons from the third floor. ''We're not just restoring a building,'' he said, ''we're restoring the dignity of the police force and the dignity of this city.''
 Captain Coley, who became the city's first female precinct commander when she took over the Fifth in February 2006, drops by community meetings more nights than not, giving her cellphone number to anyone who asks. 
 At roll call that Friday evening in April, after the third homicide in a week, she pulled aside Sgt. Joseph Juliano, the aggressive head of her new anticrime squad, and gave him a pep talk. ''Make sure we clean up Clinton Avenue because it looks real ugly right now,'' the captain said of the precinct's bedraggled commercial spine clogged with dealers and addicts. ''I'm counting on you to keep me sane.'' 'A Sixth Sense for Trouble' 
 Sergeant Juliano, who rides solo but for the smoldering stogie always hanging from his lips, is the Fifth's personification of Newark's new policing strategy. He leads a team of six young officers on nightly forays to haul in every troublemaker and send the message that the city's streets are no longer a free-for-all.
 Since its formation in January, the crew has made 585 arrests, many of them men with outstanding warrants and 16-year-olds driving stolen Jeep Wranglers or Dodge Caravans. Dressed in plain clothes and flashy gold jewelry, the officers relish the warm weather that has brought knots of young people to stoops and sidewalks, the chirp of their Nextel phones warning them before patrol cars come around the corner.
 ''It's like shooting fish in a barrel,'' Sergeant Juliano said.
 With the swagger and buzz cut of a marine and an accent that harks back to the Italian past of the North Ward, where he grew up, Sergeant Juliano, 41, talks as fast as he drives, punctuating every other sentence with a ''You know what I mean?'' or ''You know what I'm trying to say?'' 
 When he's not orchestrating impromptu sidewalk sweeps on loiterers and drunks, Sergeant Juliano likes to follow suspicious vehicles, calling in license plates to a cruiser with a working computer. He keeps a ''hot sheet'' of the dozen or so cars stolen in the city each night tucked inside his bullet-resistant vest. 
 ''I have a sixth sense for trouble,'' he said one night as he pointed out four silhouetted heads in a silver Acura and steered his Ford Crown Victoria to try to block the vehicle's escape.
 What followed was an adrenaline-flushed chase through residential streets, ending with an unhappy encounter between the Acura, a tree and a squad car. Asked why he and his friends stole the car and fled, a 17-year-old passenger said flatly, ''Because we have nothing better to do.''
 Not all officers embrace the city's quality-of-life campaign as zealously as Sergeant Juliano. Some of them derisively refer to the effort as ''body snatching.'' Tauron Hinnant and Angelo Montalvo, rookie beat partners, are reluctant to arrest teenagers who are violating the city's 11 p.m. curfew, or toothless alcoholics with open pints of Thunderbird. 
 ''Everyone drinks and a lot of these people have no place to go,'' Officer Montalvo said one night after shooing a group of men from the front of a bodega. ''My feeling is that if you arrest them, they might lose their job and then they turn to something worse.''
 Since joining up in September, the rookies have responded to two homicides; done their share of eight-hour shifts standing at Captain Coley's post-shooting barricades; interviewed catatonic teenagers who had been sexually assaulted by relatives; and, on one memorable evening, attempted to restrain an obese, mentally unhinged woman as she ran naked through her building covered in feces and menstrual blood.
 They often function as much as social workers as crime fighters, offering advice to women who have been beaten up by boyfriends or lecturing teenagers about their blatant gang attire.
 ''Someone is going to put a cap in you one day,'' Officer Hinnant, a baby-faced 22, told a 14-year-old boy in a Bloods red T-shirt, shorts and hat after his parents flagged down the rookies' car for a dose of intervention.
 One night, the rookies clambered over backyard fences in pursuit of a mugger, tackled and handcuffed the suspect and marched him to the crime scene, only to have the victim snatch back his wallet, refuse to press charges and saunter away without so much as a thank you.
 ''I don't understand these people,'' Officer Montalvo, who until last year was an appliance repairman, muttered as he climbed back into his car.
 Officer Montalvo, 30, grew up in the now largely Hispanic North Ward, but plans to leave for the suburbs as soon as he and his fiancee get married. ''This is no place to raise a kid,'' he explained dismissively.
 In contrast, Officer Hinnant dreams of owning one of the gracious prewar houses that fill the Weequahic section of the South Ward, once home to a Jewish population that has long since moved to the suburbs. He is the son of a retired Newark police lieutenant, although he did not know his father -- or his occupation -- until after his own police academy graduation. His goal is to become Newark's police chief. A Department's Lingering Scars 
 After nearly a decade in a coveted post as Mayor James's bodyguard, Lt. Bobby Wise was not entirely surprised to find himself back on patrol in the city's wildest precinct on the same day Mr. Booker took office. 
 ''Politics is politics,'' said Lieutenant Wise, 51, an amiable giant with a Jimmy Durante laugh, who was the driver for a former police director before he became head of security for Mr. James. ''I had a great career, so there's no use complaining.''
 In addition to his day job as a City Hall centurion, Lieutenant Wise used to organize security for Hollywood film crews eager to capture Newark's quintessential grit. From time to time he found himself cast as an extra, and he proudly carries a membership card in the Screen Actors Guild. His engagement to the mother of the actress Queen Latifah gives him an extra dose of celebrity in a city short on glamour.
 Although Mr. Booker and Mr. McCarthy have promised to make the Police Department a meritocracy, scars remains from years of parochialism. Without a written test for promotions, everyone has a story about well-connected fledglings promoted to detective despite an inability to read fingerprints, or highly respected officers left to languish on foot patrol for refusing to sell $500 tickets to Mr. James's annual fund-raising ball. 
 Efforts to get a response from Mr. James were unsuccessful.
 The Fifth has long been a destination for such demotions, and a handful of officers trace their transfers last summer -- after Mr. Booker's election but before Mr. McCarthy's appointment -- to their cozy affiliations with the James administration. 
 For Lieutenant Wise, the transfer has been a nostalgia trip. He was a rookie in the Fifth back in 1981, and recalls fondly the Smith & Wesson revolvers and the corner call boxes that were once the only link between officers and the station house. He also remembers the racism that hobbled the aspirations of his father, one of the few blacks on a largely Irish and Italian police force who spent his 28 years patrolling the housing project where the Wise family lived. 
 Race-based favoritism -- benefiting Italians when they ran they department, and blacks in more recent years, under Mr. James's rule -- has largely faded. But the officers still serve a public that views it with a jaundiced eye. Until recently, a call to 911 might not yield a patrol car for hours, and despite the department's new zero-tolerance stand against misconduct, many residents still don't trust the uniform. 
 As for Lieutenant Wise, he contemplated early retirement last fall, but has embraced his latest assignment, leading the city's only bicycle unit (he said he has lost 12 pounds since February patrolling the neighborhood on two wheels). 
 But with so many members of the force linked by blood, friendship or ethnic loyalty, Lieutenant Wise -- and many others -- is skeptical that patronage can ever truly be eliminated. ''If I'm in a position to help my brother on the force, I'm going to help him out,'' he said. ''That's just the way things are done here.'' 'No Snitching,' Many Gunshots 
 It was a 6-4-4. Police code for shots fired. The call came across Sgt. Luke Laterza's radio, followed by word of a teenage victim and the address of the city's most treacherous housing project. But when he arrived at the project, Seth Boyden Terrace, just after midnight one recent Friday, Sergeant Laterza found crowds of young people who squinted in the beam of a police spotlight and shook their heads when asked about reports of gunplay. 
 It took 15 minutes to locate a 14-year-old silently clutching his left thigh as he bled on the sofa of his aunt's disheveled apartment with the television blaring, even longer to learn that his 1-year-old cousin had been grazed in the foot as the teenager carried him on his way to buy candy. Ten minutes later, the radio crackled again: A 29-year-old man who was walking through the same courtyard had been hit in the calf.
 With 40 shootings so far this year, investigators in the Fifth have a practiced if unsatisfying routine. A battalion of officers question potential witnesses, often turning up little more than blank expressions. In recent years, there have been several chilling instances of witnesses being killed before they could testify, and the Essex County prosecutor has become increasingly wary of cases that lack physical evidence. 
 ''No one wants to be accused of snitching,'' Sergeant Laterza said after even the victims at Seth Boyden insisted they had seen nothing. ''These people have become so desensitized to the violence, it's almost became a way of life.'' 
 The son of a Newark police officer whose wife and brother work in law enforcement, Sergeant Laterza, 32, grew up in the North Ward, but now lives in neighboring Bloomfield, a tranquil middle-class town whose police officers sometimes speak enviously about the excitement of working in Newark.
 ''They want the big city, they want the calls for shots fired, they want the homicides,'' he said after looking, without success, for shell casings in the glass-flecked Boyden courtyard. ''It's kind of sad, but sometimes I wish I was in a smaller municipality where you get no calls for service, where there's nothing to do.''
 Back at the station house, underneath the papers chronicling the latest Compstat numbers, Captain Coley keeps real estate brochures hawking property in Florida, where she imagines herself in retirement, ''riding a red scooter back and forth to the flea market.''
 Though shootings are down 21 percent this year in the Fifth, there have been 14 homicides, two more than the same period in 2006. Maybe, Captain Coley mused, the thugs have simply become better assassins: ''Instead of doing a drive-by, they just walk right up to their victims.''
 Most of the killings are drug-related, and while a new citywide narcotics unit is making a dent, Newark's reputation for having the purest heroin in the region keeps the customers coming, and the South Ward's four highways bring them straight to the Fifth.
 The week after the back-to-back homicides on Schley Street, Captain Coley stopped by a gathering of the Wainright Block Association, where residents applauded her arrival, but a few of them criticized the police barricades she had placed on each corner. 
 ''I feel very intimidated to come into my own block,'' said one elderly woman. ''We're not criminals.'' 
 Impatient, Captain Coley responded: ''If I didn't put a police presence here, I would be getting calls saying, 'You left us unprotected.' Or would you rather be inconvenienced by having to walk through drug dealers and over dead bodies?''
 The following day, she joined two dozen mourners at a vigil for Brandon Gardner, the 18-year-old college student who had been shot to death in Mildred Helms Park, two blocks from the station house. The victim's family wept on a park bench. A deacon led a prayer. 
 Captain Coley, 45, who witnessed the killing of her mother by her stepfather when she was 4, kicked a bottle cap from the spot where Mr. Gardner fell, then gestured to a new swing set full of children in motion. ''This is what parks should be about,'' she said. 
 Just then, two 7-year-old boys jumped off the swings and ran her way. Enthralled by her uniform and gleaming badge, their eyes fell on the gun in her holster. 
 ''That's a Glock,'' one of the boys told his friend.
 The other boy responded: ''It's a 9 millimeter. My cousin has one.'' 
 Then he made an 'L' with his thumb and forefinger, pointed at his friend and said, ''Ka-pow!'' The Hard Part 
 This is the fifth article in a series chronicling Mayor Cory A. Booker's first year in Newark's City Hall. Previous articles are online at nytimes.com/region. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, roll call at the Fifth Precinct, with, from left, Officers Tauron Hinnant, Angelo Montalvo and Vincent Cordi. At right, the body of Brandon Gardner, 18, lies in Mildred Helms Park, three blocks from the precinct station house. A circle of men surrounded the teenager on April 25, and one of them fired a bullet into his head.
The police responded to a request from a man who had called to have his daughter, above, removed from his house
he said she had been drinking. Officers often find themselves functioning more as social workers than as crime fighters.
A bench at the Fifth Precinct station house where suspects are often held for hours as officers process evidence and paperwork for their cases.
Above, Rasheed Morgan, 30, was shot to death in his car at Murray and Pennsylvania Streets on May 12. Below, Capt. Sheilah Coley, the commander of the Fifth Precinct, at a crime scene with Sgt. Jerome Ramsey, left, and Capt. Antonio Perez. (Photographs by RICHARD PERRY/The New York Times)(pgs. 20,21)
A 17-year-old who was shot in the arm and neck on April 27 in Newark's Fifth Precinct. Officers said he refused to say who shot him. (Photographs by RICHARD PERRY/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart/Map: ''A Year of Violence in Newark'' Second Precinct North Ward: 21 homicides Third Precinct Ironbound area: 12 homicides Fourth Precinct Central and West Wards: 38 homicides Fifth Precinct South Ward: 34 homicides NOTABLE 2007 CASES IN THE FIFTH PRECINCT 1. Schley Street, where back to back murders occurred in April 2. Park where college student was killed 3. Seth Boyden Terrace, site of a triple shooting May 4 Map of Newark highlighting Homicides in 2006, and Nonfatal shootings in 2006. (Haeyoun Park/The New York Times) (Sources by Newark Police Department
 Census Bureau)(pg. 20) Graph: ''Crime Trends'' The number of homicides in Newark has risen in recent years, while rapes and robberies have declined. Arrests have remained fairly steady since 1990. Graphs track the number of Homicides, Rapes, Robberies, and Arrests since 1990. (Source by Newark Police Department)(pg. 21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); SHOOTINGS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); RIOTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); FELONIES (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); VEHICLE THEFT (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (68%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (60%); HIP HOP CULTURE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



530 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Jennifer Maskell, Mark Carney

 BODY:
Jennifer Lynn Maskell, the daughter of Patricia Maskell and Stephen J. Maskell of McLean, Va., was married yesterday to Dr. Mark Francis Carney, the son of Suga Carney and Joseph P. Carney of Fairfax, Va. The Rev. William J. Donnelly, a Roman Catholic priest, officiated at the King Family Vineyards in Crozet, Va. 
 The bride and the bridegroom met at the University of Virginia, from which she received a doctoral degree in counselor education earlier this month, and from which he received his medical degree and a bachelor's degree.
Mrs. Carney, 28, is a counselor specializing in eating disorders at the Urban Balance Center, a private counseling practice in Chicago. She graduated from James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Va. Her father is the director of electrical engineering at TM/R Engineering in Arlington, Va. Her mother is a lawyer in McLean.
 Dr. Carney, 29, is a fourth-year emergency medicine resident at McGaw Medical Center of Northwestern University in Chicago. His mother teaches Japanese language and culture classes at Oakton High School in Vienna, Va. His father is the director of the education office of the United States Agency for International Development in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); RELIGION (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (67%); ENGINEERING (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (57%); EATING DISORDERS (54%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); JAMES MADISON UNIVERSITY (56%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



531 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: When the Desert Calls

BYLINE: By BARBARA E. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
ALAINA DEMARTINI decided to trade the San Francisco chill and fog for palm trees and bright stars in an open sky. So last year, she and her husband, David, a retired electrician, moved to the house in Palm Springs, Calif., that they bought as a second home five years ago.
 The couple had made monthly trips to their desert home, a 1,900-square-foot 1963 Alexander house with a wall of windows facing the San Jacinto Mountains. They traveled to the two-bedroom, two-bath house, which they bought for $200,000, by flying into Palm Springs International Airport or driving for eight hours.
''Eventually we were asking, 'Why are we going back?' '' said Ms. DeMartini, a former loan agent. 
 Although Palm Springs has long been considered a second-home haven, an increasing number of home buyers are turning the desert city into their primary residence, real estate brokers say. 
 Negin Shams, a broker with the Shams Group in Palm Desert, 14 miles east of Palm Springs, said the change had been gradual but had gained speed in the last decade. Ms. Shams said that primary-home buyers had grown from 10 percent to about a third of her business in recent years, and that they included an influx of young buyers from neighboring Los Angeles and Orange Counties, with most of them finding work in the growing financial-services sector. 
 Along with the growth of mortgage and title companies, investment brokers like A. G. Edwards & Sons and financial planners like the Freedom Equity Group have opened offices in the area.
 One reason for the move is the lower cost of housing. In March, according to DataQuick, a company in La Jolla, Calif., that provides real estate research and data, the median home price for Palm Springs was $407,000, versus $540,000 in Los Angeles County and $630,000 in Orange County.
 In addition, empty nesters from Southern California, the Pacific Northwest and the Midwest who buy vacation homes in the Palm Springs area often end up living permanently there within five years. ''They are prebuying their retirement homes,'' said John Raymond, director of community and economic development for Palm Springs. ''They think, 'I'm going to get it today because I'm not going to be able to afford it when I retire.' '' 
 While actual figures are difficult to gather, Mr. Raymond said, the reality is that Palm Springs is increasingly two different experiences -- the full-time and the part-time.
 Palm Springs lures many people with its aura of luxury, cultivated by vacationing celebrities and by a vigilant building preservation committee that promotes the area as a mecca for modernist homes. It is also known for its tolerance and its renowned gay and lesbian events that make it a mainstay of top 10 lists of gay vacation spots. 
 According to Bob Marra, the president of Wheeler's Market Intelligence, a local marketing research firm, the population of Palm Springs and the surrounding Coachella Valley grew to about 412,000 permanent residents in 2006, a nearly 30 percent increase since 2000. By contrast, the state's Department of Finance reported that the population of California had grown 9.8 percent from 2000 to 2006. 
 Developers have noticed the trend. Several new projects cater to full-time and part-time residents, among them the Rael Development Corporation's Port Lawrence, 118 downtown lofts that offer living and work space. Studios start in the $600,000s with penthouse lofts priced at $1.3 million.
 The project, in the early stages of construction, has had a lot of interest, said Maggie Feldman, a Rael spokeswoman, but she declined to say how many units have been reserved with $10,000 deposits. The project is scheduled to be completed next year. 
 City Councilman Mike McCulloch, 50, said he had lived in Palm Springs since 1962, when the city ''went dark'' in the hottest months. ''In the summer everything closed; you had very limited choices if you were a full-time resident,'' he said. ''That changed in the 1970s when we saw the revolution of the condominium.''
 Condos made second homes more affordable, and others moved to become full-time residents, he said.
 Many projects are designed for older people who want a ''turnkey experience,'' Mr. McCulloch added, explaining that increasingly they are full-time residents. ''Those are for people who don't have to worry about mowing the lawn or painting the fence,'' he said.
 Ms. Shams said families seeking primary homes tend to prefer single-family houses with private backyards and no homeowners association dues. ''Families want costs kept down,'' she said. ''The winter people want gated communities and golf courses. They want something they can lock up and leave with no worries.''
 Escena Palm Springs by Lennar Communities is being marketed to appeal to both. Escena has 1,450 units planned on 355 acres in East Palm Springs, an area previously known for its wind-whipped sand dunes. 
 The development is seeking to attract singles, gays and lesbians and first-time home buyers, while also aiming its high-end homes on the golf course at retired captains of industry, said Dan Cady, director of marketing for Lennar Communities.
 Models are now available for viewing, and Lennar and Standard Pacific Homes are taking deposits on homes, which range in size from 1,961 to 3,824 square feet, starting in the $600,000s. Houses built by Standard Pacific opened in January, while Lennar's homes opened on May 19. 
 Another project breaking ground is the gated Avalon Palm Springs by the SunCal Companies, which will offer 752 single-family homes and 399 multifamily units on 309 acres near the entrance of Palm Springs. The homes, which have not been priced yet, are expected to be built in 2008, said Joe Aguirre, a spokesman for SunCal.
 William Feingold bought a Palm Springs condo in 2000 as a way to escape from his Los Angeles workweek. Soon, he said, he found himself staying longer and longer. Finally, he decided to stay permanently and gave up his job as an apartment manager.
 He bought his 1,250-square-foot, two-bedroom, two-bath unit in a gated community for $110,000, and says it is now worth about $325,000. But he didn't buy it as an investment. ''I was never crazy about Los Angeles,'' said Mr. Feingold, 57, now a semiretired stockbroker and a local radio personality. ''As soon as I saw the mountains, I knew.'' 
 The San Jacinto Mountains tower above Palm Springs, often only feet away from a pastel-colored quilt of condos and midcentury modern homes. Other mountain ranges -- the Santa Rosa, the San Bernardino and the Little San Bernardino Mountains -- surround the valley, creating deep canyons and spectacular waterfalls. ''I didn't know what to expect,'' he said, ''but I didn't expect it to be so beautiful.'' 
 In addition, Mr. Feingold, who is gay, said he was surprised to learn how gay-friendly Palm Springs is. ''You could be openly gay and be yourself,'' he said.
 Comfortable in his environment, he ran for mayor, lost but became chairman of the city's human rights commission, then gave up on a career in local politics. Instead, he became Bulldog Bill Feingold, a liberal radio talk show host known for his biting social commentary. ''If it wasn't for Palm Springs,'' he said, ''I would never at the age of 57 start my own radio show.'' 
 For some, the desert can be an empty, forsaken place. But others enjoy one of the last scraps of wild California, where mountain lions, reptiles and bighorn sheep all live in the shadow of the granite-speckled mountains. ''Nature just hits you in the head,'' Mr. Feingold said.
 Ms. DeMartini, who relocated from San Francisco, also found its beauty exceptional. She joined the Palm Springs Modernism Committee to preserve historic buildings and is also working to keep area hillsides free from encroaching development.
 In contrast, Mr. McCulloch would like to see more tony communities and hotels built to bolster the economy and attract more retailing. Palm Springs has lost much of its high-end shopping, including Saks Fifth Avenue, to nearby Palm Desert, he said. ''You can't fight growth, it's inevitable,'' Mr. McCulloch said. ''You just try to manage it.''
 May is usually when the season ends for many of the area's second-home owners. In the past, stores and restaurants would close -- but now many stay open for the year-round population. 
 ''I only know of a couple restaurants that close, but almost everyone stays open,'' said Jimmy Patty, general manager of Sherman's Deli and Bakery in downtown Palm Springs. ''We have locals that live here now.''
 The permanent residents of Palm Springs usually survive the miserable and sometimes life-threatening heat of the summer by arming themselves with water bottles and air-conditioning. Some businesses use outdoor ''misters'' to cool off customers and passers-by. ''Outdoor activities should be early in the morning or evening only,'' said Palm Springs's fire chief, Blake G. Goetz. 
 Temperatures can rise to 120 degrees, causing dashboards to pucker and the Desert Regional Medical Center's emergency room to fill with cases of heat exhaustion -- mostly from overzealous yard work, Mr. Goetz said. A full-time resident's first summer in the desert turns infatuation into either love or divorce.
 Ms. DeMartini fell in love. She enjoys floating in the pool at 11 p.m. and looking at the stars through the palm trees. ''I'm finding out more about what I want and what I think,'' she said. ''And I want less than I imagined. The desert is great for simplifying your life.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: AN OASIS -- Lennar Communities hopes to attract retired captains of industry to its high-end homes on the golf course at Escena Palm Springs. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 HOUSING HEATS UP -- Escena Palm Springs is one of several projects catering to full- and part-time residents. Model homes, left and above, are open for viewing. David and Alaina DeMartini moved to the desert from San Francisco. (Photographs by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); EMPTY NESTERS (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TITLE ABSTRACT & SETTLEMENT SERVICES (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); DESERTS (71%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (67%); AIRPORTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



532 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: Engulfed by Climate Change, Town Seeks Lifeline

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: NEWTOK, Alaska 

 BODY:
The sturdy little Cessnas land whenever the fog lifts, delivering children's bicycles, boxes of bullets, outboard motors and cans of dried oats. And then, with a rumble down a gravel strip, the planes are gone, the outside world recedes and this subarctic outpost steels itself once again to face the frontier of climate change. 
 ''I don't want to live in permafrost no more,'' said Frank Tommy, 47, standing beside gutted geese and seal meat drying on a wooden rack outside his mother's house. ''It's too muddy. Everything is crooked around here.''
The earth beneath much of Alaska is not what it used to be. The permanently frozen subsoil, known as permafrost, upon which Newtok and so many other Native Alaskan villages rest, is melting, yielding to warming air temperatures and a warming ocean. Sea ice that would normally protect coastal villages is forming later in the year, allowing fall storms to pound away at the shoreline. 
 Erosion has made Newtok an island, caught between the ever widening Ninglick River and a slough to the north. The village is below sea level, and sinking. Boardwalks squish into the spring muck. Human waste, collected in ''honey buckets'' that many residents use for toilets, is often dumped within eyeshot in a village where no point is more than a five-minute walk from any other. The ragged wooden houses have to be adjusted regularly to level them on the shifting soil. 
 Studies say Newtok could be washed away within a decade. Along with the villages of Shishmaref and Kivalina farther to the north, it has been the hardest hit of about 180 Alaska villages that suffer some degree of erosion. 
 Some villages plan to hunker down behind sea walls built or planned by the Army Corps of Engineers, at least for now. Others, like Newtok, have no choice but to abandon their patch of tundra. The corps has estimated that to move Newtok could cost $130 million because of its remoteness, climate and topography. That comes to almost $413,000 for each of the 315 residents. 
 Not that anyone is offering to pay.
 After all, climate change is raising questions about how to deal with drought, wildfires, hurricanes and other threats that affect so many more people and involve large sums of money. 
 ''We haven't sat down as a society and said, 'How are we going to adapt to this?' '' said Michael Oppenheimer, a climate scientist at Princeton University and a lead author of a recent report by a United Nations panel on the impacts and vulnerability presented by climate change. ''Just like we haven't sat down and said, 'How are we going to reduce emissions?' And both have to be done.''
 Amid the uncertainty, the residents of Newtok hear the skeptics, who question the price tag for moving such a small, seemingly inconsequential place. But residents here emphasize that they are a federally recognized American Indian tribe, and they shudder when asked why they cannot just move to an existing village or a city like Fairbanks.
 They say their identity is rooted in their isolation, however qualified it has become over the last century by outside influences. It was the government, they say, that insisted decades ago that they and so many other villages abandon their nomadic ways and pick a place to call home. The current village site was once only a winter camp, and the people of Newtok say they are not to blame just because they are now among the first climate refugees in the United States. 
 ''The federal government, they're the ones who came into our lives and took away some of our values,'' said Nick Tom Jr., 49, the former Newtok tribal administrator. ''They came in and said, 'You aren't civilized. We're going to educate you.' That was hard for our grandparents.''
 Newtok's leaders say the corps' relocation estimates are inflated, that they intend to move piecemeal rather than in one collective migration, which they say will save money. But they say government should pay, no matter the cost -- if only there were a government agency charged with doing so. There is not a formal process by which a village can apply to the government to relocate.
 ''They grossly overestimate it, and that's why federal and state agencies are afraid to step in,'' said Stanley Tom, the current tribal administrator and the brother of Nick Tom Jr. ''They don't want to spend that much money.''
 Still, Newtok has made far more progress toward moving than other villages, piecing together its move grant by grant. 
 Through a land swap with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, it has secured a new site, on Nelson Island, nine miles south. It is safe from the waves on a windy rise above the Ninglick River. They call it Mertarvik, which means ''getting water from the spring.'' They tell their children they will grow up in a place where E. coli does not thrive in every puddle, the way it does here. 
 With the help of state agencies, it won a grant of about $1 million to build a barge landing at the new site. Bids go out this summer, and construction could be complete next year, providing a platform to unload equipment for building roads, water and sewer systems, houses and a new landing strip.
 Village Safe Water, part of the State Department of Environmental Conservation, plans to use money budgeted for repairs at the existing village to drill for water this summer at the new site. The corps is drafting a plan to build initial roads and an emergency center that would serve as a base of operations during construction. But the plan, for which the corps has not yet released a budget, needs financing from Congress.
 There is no plan yet for how the village would move entire buildings, such as the Newtok School, which is relatively new and serves the village's 125 children, preschool through high school.
 So far, said Sally Russell Cox, a planner with the state division of community advocacy, ''This is all on sticky notes.'' 
 Senator Ted Stevens, the lion of Alaska politics, is now the ranking minority member on the Senate's new Disaster Recovery subcommittee.
 His aides say that, while he has yet to push for money to move specific villages, he was instrumental in passing legislation in 2005 that gave the corps broader authority to help. Despite the state's past success at winning federal money, they say Alaska lawmakers are hemmed in by new scrutiny of so-called earmarks for special projects, Mr. Stevens's status in the minority of the new Congress, public detachment from issues facing rural Alaska and needs in other places, like New Orleans.
 And village relocation in Alaska is not a priority at the White House. The president's proposed budget includes $1 million that could go to that purpose, White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said Saturday. 
 Bruce Sexauer, a senior planner with the corps in Alaska who wrote a report assessing the needs of various villages, said the residents of Newtok are descendants of the people who came across the land bridge from Asia. ''They are the very first of the people that were inhabiting North America thousands of years ago. Talk about a rich and unique American culture. Is it worth it? There's more to it than just economics.''
 The administrative leaders of Newtok are mostly men in their 40s, nearly all of them related. They are widely praised by outsiders for their initiative and determination to relocate. 
 Yet nearly any place would seem an improvement over Newtok as it exists today, and not all of its problems are rooted in climate change. Some are almost universal to Alaskan villages, which have struggled for decades to reconcile their culture of subsistence hunting and fishing with the expectations and temptations of the world outside. 
 Excrement dumped from honey buckets is piled on the banks of the slow-flowing Newtok River, not far from wooden shacks where residents take nightly steam baths. An elderly man drains kerosene into a puddle of snowmelt. Children pedal past a walrus skull left to rot, tusks intact, in the mud beside a boardwalk that serves as a main thoroughfare. There are no cars here, just snow machines, boats and all-terrain vehicles that tear up the tundra.
 Village elders speak their native Yupik more often than they speak English. They remember when the village was a collection of families who moved with the seasons, making houses from sod, fishing from Nelson Island in the summer, hunting caribou far away in the winter.
 But, said Agnes Tommy, ''It's getting hard to remember.''
 On a recent afternoon, Ms. Tommy, 84, watched a DVD of ''The Day After'' while her 17-year-old granddaughter, Nicole, a high school dropout, sat across the room with Eminem's ''Encore'' thumping in her headphones. Nicole mused about moving to Anchorage, although she has never been there. 
 Many men still travel with the seasons to hunt and fish. Some will take boats into Bristol Bay this summer to catch salmon alongside commercial fishermen from out of state. But the waterproof jacket sewn from seal gut that Stanley Tom once wore is now stuffed inside a display case at Newtok School next to other relics. 
 Now Mr. Tom puts on a puffy parka to walk the few hundred feet he travels to work. He checks his e-mail messages to see if there is news from the corps or from Senator Stevens while his brother, Nick, sketches out a budget proposal for a nonprofit corporation to help manage the relocation, presuming the money arrives. 
 Nick Tom said the move could bring jobs for young people who may otherwise be tempted to leave. Other young people talk only of leaving for the new village. 
 ''They're going to move us to a mountain,'' said Annie Kassaiuli, 11, eating a burrito in the school cafeteria. ''We can pick berries.'' Warming Trends 
 This is the fourth in a series of articles looking at how climate change is affecting American life. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Annalee Paniyak, 2, left, Bernadette John, 4, and Taylor John, 4, playing in the melting snow of Newtok.
 Newtok, Alaska, in spring, as viewed from its water tower. Boardwalks squish into the muck in Newtok, which erosion has turned into an island. (Photographs by Charles Mason for The New York Times)(pg. 25) Map of Alaska highlighting Newtok: Newtok, Shishmaref and Kivalina all face major erosion problems. (pg. 25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); EROSION (89%); WEATHER (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); ARMIES (66%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (64%); ENGINEERING (62%); EMISSIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



533 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 5-27-07: IDEA LAB; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Clueless

BYLINE: By Gary J. Bass. 
Gary J. Bass, an associate professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton, is writing a book on humanitarian intervention.

 BODY:
Of all the people who deserve some blame for the debacle in Iraq, don't forget the American public. Today, about two-thirds of Americans oppose the war. But back in March 2003, when United States troops stormed into Iraq, nearly three out of four Americans supported the invasion. Doves say that the public was suckered into war by a deceitful White House, and hawks say that the press has since led the public to lose its nerve -- but the two sides implicitly agree that the public has been dangerously unsure, or easily propagandized, or ignorant.
The disaster in Iraq has also fed a contradiction in American thinking about democracy. On the one hand, Americans continue to share the triumphalist, post-Soviet conviction that no other system of government has any real legitimacy. On the other hand, there is a deepening despair about whether and how the United States should spread democracy, prompted not just by Iraq but also by the endurance of authoritarianism in booming China and Vietnam and the disheartening Palestinian and Lebanese experiments in democratization. 
 Now Bryan Caplan, an economist at George Mason University, has attracted notice for raising a pointed question: Do voters have any idea what they are doing? In his provocative new book, ''The Myth of the Rational Voter: Why Democracies Choose Bad Policies,'' Caplan argues that ''voters are worse than ignorant; they are, in a word, irrational -- and vote accordingly.'' Caplan's complaint is not that special-interest groups might subvert the will of the people, or that government might ignore the will of the people. He objects to the will of the people itself.
 In defending democracy, theorists of public choice sometimes invoke what they call ''the miracle of aggregation.'' It might seem obvious that few voters fully understand the intricacies of, say, single-payer universal health care. (I certainly don't.) But imagine, Caplan writes, that just 1 percent of voters are fully informed and the other 99 percent are so ignorant that they vote at random. In a campaign between two candidates, one of whom has an excellent health care plan and the other a horrible plan, the candidates evenly split the ignorant voters' ballots. Since all the well-informed voters opt for the candidate with the good health care plan, she wins. Thus, even in a democracy composed almost exclusively of the ignorant, we achieve first-rate health care. 
 The hitch, as Caplan points out, is that this miracle of aggregation works only if the errors are random. When that's the case, the thousands of ill-informed votes in favor of the bad health plan are canceled out by thousands of equally ignorant votes in favor of the good plan. But Caplan argues that in the real world, voters make systematic mistakes about economic policy -- and probably other policy issues too.
 Caplan's own evidence for the systematic folly of voters comes from a 1996 survey comparing the views of Ph.D. economists and the general public. To the exasperation of the libertarian-minded Caplan, most Americans do not think like economists. They are biased against free markets and against trade with foreigners. Absurdly, they think that the American economy is being hurt by too much spending on foreign aid; they also exaggerate the potential economic harms of immigration. In a similar vein, Scott L. Althaus, a University of Illinois political scientist, finds that if the public were better informed, it would overcome its ingrained biases and make different political decisions. According to his studies, such a public would be more progressive on social issues like abortion and gay rights, more ideologically conservative in preferring markets to government intervention and less isolationist but more dovish in foreign policy. 
 If the public doesn't know how to think, is there a solution? Caplan has some radical medicine in mind. To encourage greater economic literacy, he suggests tests of voter competence, or ''giving extra votes to individuals or groups with greater economic literacy.'' Until 1949, he points out, Britain gave extra votes to some business owners and graduates of elite universities. (Since worse-educated citizens are less likely to vote, Caplan dislikes efforts to increase voter turnout.) Most provocatively, perhaps, in an online essay Caplan has suggested a curious twist on the tradition of judicial review: If the Supreme Court can strike down laws as unconstitutional, why shouldn't the Council of Economic Advisers be able to strike down laws as ''uneconomical''? (Caplan's book has been warmly recommended by N. Gregory Mankiw, the former chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, although Mankiw did not allude to this particular proposal.) Caplan also suggests changing the educational curriculum to stamp out biased beliefs in voters and policy makers alike -- a suggestion as old as Plato's wish that a city's ruling guardians be schooled in the ''royal science'' of governance, which has seemingly been reincarnated as economics.
 Caplan's argument has kicked off some stormy Internet debates. The liberal blogger Ezra Klein wrote: ''Obviously I, like most coastal-bred elitists, don't think voters make terribly good decisions. But I also don't think economic actors are particularly rational.'' He might have added that many policy issues cannot be decided on the basis of avowedly rational expert judgment alone. Take immigration, where governments weigh not just economic costs and benefits but also demands of national identity and cosmopolitanism. Or war: it's very complicated, so should we abandon military planning to the professional generals?
 Caplan's view of democracy is all about efficiency, not legitimacy. But some time ago, the political scientist Samuel P. Huntington pointed out the weakness of dictatorships that justify their rule by only the quality of their job performance: as soon as something goes wrong -- a war is lost or inflation skyrockets -- the public has no further reason to put up with a despot. If the public asked Caplan's Council of Economic Advisers by what authority it struck down a law, the council members could point only to their diplomas and peer-reviewed articles. A democratic public may not always like -- or understand -- the government's policy, but the consent of the governed gives the citizens a reason not to reject the whole system.
 Caplan recognizes that politicians, like voters, are prone to error. In his zeal to question the public's judgment, however, he may underplay the role of political elites in shaping that judgment. Would the public choose badly if it had better guidance? John R. Zaller, a U.C.L.A. political scientist, argues that even the more politically aware citizens are driven largely by partisanship and by the cues they take from political leaders. That sounds like George W. Bush leading the country into war in Iraq or, more happily, Bill Clinton tirelessly explaining how deficit reduction would reduce long-term interest rates and thus strengthen the economy -- quite a complex argument. Maybe the public doesn't measure up because the politicians are not doing their job properly, not the other way around. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Tim Davis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



534 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: The Oil Price Trajectory

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Oil Price 'Gouging': A Phantom Menace?'' (Economic View, May 20), about reactions in Congress to the recent path of oil prices: 
 Selling at prices that some people feel are too high violates no one's rights -- there is no such thing as a right to cheap gasoline. Moreover, ''price gouging'' has no objective meaning or definition -- it is in the eyes of the beholder. People who complain about it merely want a product at a lower price than it's being sold for.
''Price gouging'' laws are like the sword of Damocles hanging over the heads of business owners. They should not have to live under this constant threat. David Holcberg Irvine, Calif., May 22 The writer is a media research specialist at the Ayn Rand Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); WRITERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



535 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: Working Out the Kinks, for a Price

BYLINE: By CARA JOY DAVID

 BODY:
IT'S mid-May and, at the rehearsal studios at 890 Broadway, 25 actors are presenting the Broadway-bound musical ''Cry-Baby'' to an invited audience of about 150. The cast, clad largely in street clothes, performs the show aided by little more than three musicians, five wooden platforms, several tables and some cardboard-cutout-style props.
 To the uninitiated, this presentation may appear to have cost, oh, a few thousand dollars. The actual figure, however, is more like a hundred times that. For the performance, one of two, is the culmination of a pricey four-week workshop process, standard in recent decades for Broadway-bound productions, in which a show is developed through round after round of read-throughs, rewrites and rehearsals.
''You see less workshops now because of the expense,'' said Adam Epstein, who, along with Allan S. Gordon and Elan V. McAllister, is a commercial producer of ''Cry-Baby.'' ''People don't want to pay the money. But workshops are a good way to see how the show moves and feels. For me, a $300,000 investment versus the $11 million Broadway investment is a worthwhile investment to make.'' 
 Readings and workshops are the cornerstone of the theatrical developmental process. Typically ending with invitation-only presentations, they are used to work on shows and to present works-in-progress to potential backers and theater owners. While readings are cheaper than workshops (actors don't even necessarily require payment), they can only last two weeks, have very limited staging and feature actors with scripts in hand. Workshops, lasting four weeks max, come with a hefty price tag but allow for more staging, choreography and feature actors performing without scripts.
 The history of workshops is relatively brief. The director and choreographer Michael Bennett is largely credited with popularizing the process with his expansive 1974 workshops of ''A Chorus Line.'' 
 ''Forty years ago, you listened to the show, you read the book and said, 'Let's do that musical,' '' the veteran producer Emanuel Azenberg said. ''We never knew what we had before it was onstage, but the whole production only cost $400,000. Now, if you don't know what you have, it costs $13 million. So you want to really look at it.''
 A more simple and less expensive reading for a musical, Mr. Azenberg said, is ''somewhat of a fake.'' The best reading he ever attended for a musical, for instance, was for ''The Goodbye Girl,'' which he produced on Broadway in 1993 and which flopped. ''We had not musical-ized the story,'' he recalled. ''It didn't have transitions, it didn't have dance. We got away with that easily in readings.''
 The rise of workshops coincided with the virtual elimination of the tryout tour, during which shows played multiple cities before arriving on Broadway, working out kinks along the way. As musicals became more technically complex, this process became increasingly challenging and economically prohibitive. The workshop was, at first, a cheap and easy alternative; costs, however, soon increased. 
 These days, musical workshops tend to cost $250,000 to $500,000. The ''Cry-Baby'' workshop has an estimated budget of $276,760, a significant jump from the roughly $25,000 that was spent on each of the show's two readings.
 In the case of this particular workshop, each actor received $728 a week. In total, $135,131 was shelled out in salaries and fees to actors, stage managers, musicians, creative personnel, production assistants and production management. Other budgeted expenses ranged from hall rental ($17,520) and health insurance for participating Actors' Equity Association members ($17,160), to CD and script copying ($1,500) and catering ($1,250). 
 Further complicating the bottom line, Equity actors and stage managers participating in commercial workshops share 1 percent of the weekly box-office gross of the majority of future professional productions (also thanks to ''A Chorus Line''). These payments can be avoided by the participation of a nonprofit theater covered under League of Resident Theaters guidelines. La Jolla Playhouse in California, the nonprofit where ''Cry-Baby'' will have its premiere this fall, technically presented the ''Cry-Baby'' workshop in New York, and thus Equity participants were under such a contract. These individuals received more up front than the commercial workshop minimum (which would have been $606 a week) but don't get a piece of the pie moving forward. If ''Cry-Baby'' is a hit, that will save the producers quite a bit down the line. (Without royalty payments, an Equity spokeswoman said, ''Cry-Baby'' did not have a bona fide workshop; a La Jolla Playhouse representative similarly referred to the process simply as ''developmental work.'' But these distinctions relate to contract wording and are largely a matter of semantics.)
 Based on the 1990 John Waters movie, ''Cry-Baby,'' set in 1954 Baltimore, centers on the romance between the city's baddest boy and goodest girl and its repercussions for a host of eclectic characters. The musical, directed by Mark Brokaw and choreographed by Rob Ashford, features a book by Mark O'Donnell and Thomas Meehan (the ''Hairspray'' team) and lyrics and music by David Javerbaum and Adam Schlesinger.
 Mr. Epstein said he believed dance-heavy shows like ''Cry-Baby'' particularly benefited from the workshop process. His team did a workshop at this time so that major changes, if needed, can be made to the piece before its run at La Jolla.
 ''Our hope is that we'll be tweaking there and not excavating,'' he said.
 But ''Cry-Baby's'' path is not the only one a show can take. ''The Color Purple'' had a series of readings, then went to Atlanta's Alliance Theater before having a commercial workshop before Broadway. 
 ''We did significant rewrites after Atlanta, and I needed to put it up again,'' said Scott Sanders, a producer of ''The Color Purple.'' ''Another regional production would have been $1 million, and the workshop was $500,000. But more than that, for my team, I thought a workshop would be more useful.'' It panned out: that workshop led to the involvement of Oprah Winfrey as a producer.
 Many shows do succeed without workshops. Current hits -- including ''Hairspray,'' ''Spamalot'' and ''Wicked'' -- all had readings, out-of-town engagements and quick moves to New York. Other shows are not as charmed. ''The Wedding Singer'' from last season went the reading route, ran into trouble out of town in Seattle and closed at a substantial loss after nine months on Broadway.
 ''In hindsight, a workshop might have really helped us before we went to Seattle,'' said John Rado, director of ''The Wedding Singer.'' ''Workshops help the choreographer, the director and the design team conceive production numbers, test them out. Once we opened out of town, we had to reinvent things. And we had time before Broadway, but not that much time.''
 Of course, having a workshop does not guarantee a great show, even when the workshop is a successful one. 
 In the late 1990s, the industry was abuzz after workshops of ''Seussical'' and ''Sweet Smell of Success,'' yet those musicals went on to bomb. 
 ''Some spectacular failures felt spectacular in the room,'' said Michael David, a partner in Dodger Theatricals, who prefers workshops over readings, but developmental productions over both. ''If you are that close to a line of women in leotards, it looks good.''
 Nevertheless, the general feeling is that workshops help. Good news if you can afford one; otherwise you may be out of luck. While expenditures are high at every stage of production, the costliness of workshops has repercussions beyond final show quality. ''How many shows never get to be developed because someone can't raise a half a million dollars against an idea?'' Mr. Sanders asked. ''That's just so expensive, it's like, 'Let's just do a reading.' You don't get a full sense from that. There could be a gem of a show that possible investors never get to see a true presentation of, and so it never gets done.''
 Fortunately for the ''Cry-Baby'' team, money was not a prohibitive factor. The show changed during its four weeks, and more revisions are to come. 
 At that mid-May workshop, for instance, it was clear that the upbeat, full-company finale, ''Nothing Bad's Ever Gonna Happen Again,'' went over much bigger than the opening number. There was a rousing crowd reaction to ''Screw Loose,'' a first-act tune sung by Alli Mauzey, a supporting player; and ''I Did Something Wrong Once,'' the actress Jan Maxwell's second-act song. But other moments received fewer hoots and hollers. This is to be expected. After all, more than anything, these workshops are learning experiences.
 ''Think of a show as a kid,'' Ms. McAllister said. ''You have to send your kid to the right schools, you have to do what is right for him. Our kid needed a workshop to grow up right.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher J. Hanke, center, in a workshop in New York for ''Cry-Baby,'' which opens in San Diego in the fall. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); THEATER (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); MUSIC (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



536 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Joins Rush to Build Ever Taller Buildings

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: INCHEON, South Korea 

 BODY:
On a stretch of reclaimed land, near where Gen. Douglas MacArthur's forces came ashore during the Korean War, this city will build a towering monument to its rising ambitions: twin skyscrapers reaching 2,013 feet into the sky, higher than the tallest building in the world today.
 Developers in neighboring Seoul responded by increasing the height of a skyscraper they were planning by 66 feet. In December, the chief of a Seoul ward announced an even more grandiose plan to erect a 220-story building that, at almost 3,200 feet, would be twice as high as the Sears Tower in Chicago.
Incheon and Seoul are part of one of the biggest booms in tall-building construction since the skyscraper appeared more than a century ago, a rush spreading from established tower magnets like Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Shanghai and Hong Kong to lesser-known cities across fast-rising East Asia and the Persian Gulf. 
 Awash with cash from South Korea's economic takeoff, Incheon and Seoul are being joined in the building rush by Busan, which also plans two skyscrapers of more than 100 stories. In the Middle East, Mecca and Doha are building soaring new towers. So are a half dozen lesser-known cities in China, including Tianjin, Guangzhou and Wenzhou. Experts say the next wave of skyscraper proposals could come from economically booming India.
 ''We have entered an unprecedented era of skyscraper construction,'' said Daniel Kieckhefer, a senior editor at Emporis, a German research firm that tracks building projects worldwide. ''Chinese cities that I've never heard of are building skylines that rival New York's.''
 According to Emporis, 42 skyscrapers are in the planning stages or under construction around the world that are more than 1,000 feet, a height widely regarded as ''super-tall.'' At least 33 super-tall buildings have been completed in the past 80 or so years, including the world's current tallest, the 1,667-foot Taipei 101 in Taiwan, built in 2004. 
 Of those planned new buildings, only five will be in the United States. Three are in New York: the Freedom Tower, the 1,776-foot building planned for the site where the World Trade Center stood; the Bank of America Tower; and The New York Times Tower. The other two are in Chicago: the Trump International Hotel & Tower and the Waterview Tower. 
 Many of the world's new super-tall buildings are rising in overcrowded cities where land is scarce, and a newly emerging middle class is clamoring for modern office and living space. But experts say the drive to go tall also reflects the aspiration of Asian and Persian Gulf nations to join the ranks of the developed world, and to assert that their long-awaited moment in history has finally come.
 ''Developing countries want the tallest building to put themselves on the map,'' said Antony Wood, executive director of the Chicago-based Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat. ''They want to say to the developed world that they've arrived, that they now have the financial and technological ability to make these projects happen.''
 In South Korea, one reason for the sudden proliferation of ambitious skyscraper plans has been a desire to keep up with its booming neighbors: China, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
 ''South Koreans were a little hurt by the fact that Taiwan has the world's tallest building, and we don't,'' said Lee Bok-nam, a researcher at the Construction & Economy Research Institute of Korea. ''If they have one, we have to have one, too.''
 For now, the busiest builder remains Dubai, as the bustling port in the United Arab Emirates grows into the Persian Gulf's financial center. The city has poured billions of its oil and banking dollars into dozens of gleaming high-rises that have sprung out of what was until recently empty desert, though the boom has been marred by labor abuses.
 According to Emporis, 15 of the super-talls planned or under way are located there, including the Burj Dubai, a $1 billion, 161-story tower scheduled for completion next year that will be -- at least for a while -- the world's tallest man-made structure, besting the 2,063-foot KVLY-TV mast in North Dakota. 
 The Burj's Dubai-based owners hope that by not revealing the building's height until the final spire is fitted, they will frustrate rivals' plans to immediately outdo them. Most speculation puts the Burj's height at about a half-mile, or 2,650 feet. 
 Such heights are possible because of new high-performance concretes and composite materials and advances in engineering. One of the Burj's chief structural engineers, Ahmad K. Abdelrazaq, said that computer simulations allowed for increasingly innovative designs. 
 ''Tall buildings are all about the technologies available,'' said Mr. Abdelrazaq, an executive director at Samsung Engineering & Construction, one of the main contractors building the Burj. ''Humans have always aspired to go to the highest point they can reach, and the technologies determine how high that is.''
 Mr. Abdelrazaq said wind is one of the biggest challenges for super-tall buildings. The Burj has a series of platforms along its height that form a spiraling helix shape, forcing air currents harmlessly upward and preventing the formation of deadly whirlwind-like vortexes, he said. 
 The Taipei 101 overcomes the forces of wind and earthquakes by using a different technology, called a tuned mass damper -- essentially, a 600-ton ball suspended by cables inside the building's top. The damper acts as a huge pendulum, steadying the building when it starts to sway.
 Just as the invention of the elevator made early skyscrapers feasible, faster, better elevators are crucial now. The Taipei 101's aerodynamic, bullet-shaped elevators rise to the building's 89th-floor observation deck in 37 seconds. Experts say in the future, tall buildings could use elevators that move on magnets instead of cables, allowing them to move sideways and diagonally.
 In South Korea, the burst of economic and nationalist passion has borne proposals for a dozen super-tall buildings. Some, experts say, may never break ground, but others seem certain. 
 The $3 billion twin Songdo Incheon Towers will be the centerpiece of a 13,000-acre urban development, called the Songdo International City. Estimated to cost tens of billions of dollars, the project is the product of this gritty port city's ambition to transform itself into a transportation and high-technology research hub. Incheon officials hope the towers will replace General MacArthur's epic landing as a symbol for the city.
 ''All international cities have landmark towers,'' said Lee Seung-joo, a senior project manager of the 151-story Incheon towers, scheduled for completion by 2013. ''A landmark tower is like a brand. These towers will be Incheon's brand to the world.''
 Strong public interest here attests to South Korea's desire for global recognition.
 ''A tall building means pride,'' said Kim Sang-dae, a professor of architectural engineering at Korea University in Seoul. ''It is a message to the world, that we are now equal to you and that we are not a poor country anymore.''
 There has been little popular opposition here, even from the sorts of neighborhood preservation groups that commonly battle such projects in the United States. So far, the biggest opponent has been the Korean Air Force, which worries that the structures will block its flight paths.
 Instead, attention seems to be on who gets the grandest new monument. In Seoul, the planned 151-story Yongsan Landmark Building, at 2,046 feet, will tower over all the city's existing structures, and even some nearby mountain peaks.
 ''Seoul is the capital, so it must have the tallest building,'' said Han Bong-seok, an executive at Korea Railroad, the national railway company, who heads the project to build the tower on the site of an old train yard. ''This is for the pride of Seoul.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A visitor looks at a rendering of the Songdo Incheon Towers, part of the Incheon Free Economic Zone. (Photo by Seokyong Lee for The New York Times) Chart: ''Building to Be the Tallest'' There are currently dozens of skyscrapers under construction or in planning stages around the world that are 1,000 feet or taller. Below, how three of those buildings compare to some of the tallest skyscrapers built to date. Empire State Building New York City 1931 1,250 feet World Trade Center New York City 1972, 1973 1,368 and 1,362 feet Sears Tower Chicago 1974 1,451 feet Petronas Towers Malaysia 1998 1,483 feet Taipei 101 Taiwan 2004 1,667 feet Freedom Tower New York City Under construction 1,776 feet Songdo Incheon South Korea In planning 2,013 feet Burj Dubai United Arab Emirates Under construction Approx. 2,650 feet *Height of the building's tallest structural element. Does not include antennas. (Source by Emporis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (89%); LAND RECLAMATION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (70%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (56%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



537 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Elite Colleges Open New Door To Poor Youths

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

DATELINE: AMHERST, Mass. 

 BODY:
The discussion in the States of Poverty seminar here at Amherst College was getting a little theoretical. Then Anthony Abraham Jack, a junior from Miami, asked pointedly, ''Has anyone here ever actually seen a food stamp?'' 
 To Mr. Jack, unlike many of his classmates, food stamps are not an abstraction. His family has had to use them in emergencies. His mother raised three children as a single parent and earns $26,000 a year as a school security guard. That is just a little more than half the cost of a year's tuition, room and board, fees and other expenses at Amherst, which for Mr. Jack's class was close to $48,000.
So when Mr. Jack, now 22 and a senior, graduates with honors on May 27, he will not just be the first in his family to earn a college degree, but a success story in the effort by Amherst and a growing number of elite colleges to open their doors to talented low-income students. 
 Concerned that the barriers to elite institutions are being increasingly drawn along class lines, and wanting to maintain some role as engines of social mobility, about two dozen schools -- Amherst, Harvard, Princeton, Stanford, the University of Virginia, Williams and the University of North Carolina, among them -- have pushed in the past few years to diversify economically. 
 They are trying tactics like replacing loans with grants and curtailing early admission, which favors the well-to-do and savvy. But most important, Amherst, for instance, is doing more than giving money to low-income students; it is recruiting them and taking their socioeconomic background -- defined by family income, parents' education and occupation level -- into account when making admissions decisions. 
 Amherst's president, Anthony Marx, turns to stark numbers in a 2004 study by the Century Foundation, a policy institute in New York, to explain the effort: Three-quarters of students at top colleges come from the top socioeconomic quartile, with only one-tenth from the poorer half and 3 percent from the bottom quartile.
 ''We want talent from across all divides, wherever we can find it,'' President Marx said. Amherst covered the full cost of Mr. Jack's education beyond what he earned in work-study. The only debt he says he owes is the $41 it cost to make copies of his 107-page honors thesis. 
 Amherst also provides its low-income students important support, from $400 ''start-up grants'' for winter coats and sheets and blankets for their dorm rooms, to summer science and math tutoring. At the same time, low-income students are expected to put in at least seven hours a week at $8-an-hour work-study jobs.
 But they get to use $200 a month in their work-study earnings as spending money to get a haircut, for instance, or go out for pizza with classmates so they don't feel excluded.
 Mr. Jack, who is black and had never been on a plane until he flew to Amherst for his first visit, arrived as an A student, and with a steely focus.
 His mother, Marilyn, 53, had guided her son from Head Start to a gifted program in elementary school to a magnet middle school and, in his final year of high school, to the private Gulliver Preparatory School on a full scholarship. But she never had to push Tony, she said. ''He was on a mission from Day 1,'' she said. 
 Mr. Jack's high grades and test scores -- a respectable 1200 on the SAT -- won him a full scholarship to the University of Florida. But the median score for his Amherst class was 1422, and he would have been excluded had the admissions office not considered his socioeconomic class, and the obstacles he had overcome. 
 ''Tony Jack with his pure intelligence -- had he been raised in Greenwich, he would have been a 1500 kid,'' said Tom Parker, the dean of admission. ''He would have been tutored by Kaplan or Princeton Review. He would have had The New Yorker magazine on the coffee table.''
 ''Tony Jack is not an anomaly,'' he added. 
 Mr. Jack, Amherst officials say, would likely not have benefited under traditional affirmative action programs. In their groundbreaking 1998 study of 28 selective universities, William Bowen, the former president of Princeton, and Derek Bok, now the interim president of Harvard, found that 86 percent of blacks who enrolled were middle or upper middle class. (Amherst was not included in that study.) The white students were even wealthier. 
 ''Universities have prided themselves on making strides in racial diversity, but for the most part they have avoided the larger issue of class inequality,'' said Richard D. Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation.
 For Mr. Jack, there were adjustments at this college, where half the students are affluent enough that their parents pay tuition without any aid from Amherst.
 He did not let it bother him, he said, when wealthier classmates blithely inquired about the best clubs in Miami -- as if he would know, Mr. Jack said dryly -- before flying off to his hometown for spring break. Mr. Jack could afford to go home only at Christmas, and the end of the year, when Amherst paid his plane fare. 
 Mr. Jack is 6 foot 7 and built like the football player he used to be. In his freshman year, he said, he was walking to his dorm one night when a police car seemed to be following him. He recalled showing the officer his Amherst ID and explaining, ''I'm a student here.'' 
 In Mr. Jack's class of 413, 15 percent, or 61, students, are from families with incomes of less than $45,000 a year; about two-thirds of those are from families earning less than $30,000. He was amazed to discover how much preparation wealthier students had.
 ''People are groomed for the SAT,'' Mr. Jack said. ''They take Latin to help them with their vocabulary.''
 He seized every opportunity Amherst offered -- the pre-freshman summer program in science and math, help from the writing center and faculty office hours. ''They didn't just invite me in,'' he said. ''They prepared the way.''
 For his freshman year, he chose the most challenging classes, including Chemical Principles, even though he had no chemistry in high school. ''I didn't feel like I was in over my head,'' he said. ''I just felt like I was being pushed to the boundaries of my ability.'' 
 He got all A's and B's his first year, except for a C-plus in chemistry. Sophomore year he plunged in even deeper, taking Organic Chemistry I and II. He got a B the first semester, and an A-minus the second. 
 ''Organic chemistry was the happiest time of my life,'' said Mr. Jack, who tends to gush about Amherst. ''Everything started clicking.''
 David Hansen, who taught Organic Chemistry II, called Mr. Jack's improvement remarkable: ''He had the motivation and the desire and the discipline to take advantage of the support that was here.'' 
 Mr. Jack, who is as gregarious as he is studious, found time to mentor other students, serve on committees -- and earn an A-plus in calculus last year, one of only 10 A-pluses the professor, David Cox, said he has given out in calculus in 30 years of teaching. This year Mr. Jack was Amherst's nominee to be a Rhodes scholar at Oxford. 
 Squeamish about blood, Mr. Jack switched his major from pre-med to religion and gender studies. He said he intended to go to graduate school. For now, he loves Amherst so much, he is staying around as an ''alumni fellow,'' organizing events on campus. He says he thinks about teaching, or becoming a lawyer so that he can help his community. As for money, he says he just wants to be able to take care of his family.
 Thanks to Amherst, Mr. Jack said, he has rewritten the narrative of his life. It isn't about ''a poor black student'' going ''from the bottom to the top,'' as he once believed, he wrote in an essay about his family and all they have done for him. They will be here at graduation, having driven up in a rented van from Miami. 
 ''Being a senior at Amherst is only one step along my journey through life,'' he wrote. ''You want to know Anthony Abraham Jack, then look behind the man you see walking around campus today. And you, in doing so, surely will never say that he came from the bottom and is now at the top.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tony Jack and his supervisor, Demisha W. Lee, in the admission office, where Mr. Jack has a work-study job. (Photo by Nancy Palmieri for The New York Times)
Marilyn Jack, Tony's mother, with her granddaughter Makayla. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. 25)
 Tony Jack will graduate with honors today from Amherst College. (Photo by Nancy Palmieri for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (71%); CAMPUS SECURITY (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



538 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: The Crash That Passed Us By

BYLINE: By Panos Mourdoukoutas and Paul Kutasovic. 
Panos Mourdoukoutas is a professor of economics at Long Island University. Paul Kutasovic is a professor of economics at New York Institute of Technology.

 BODY:
SPRING -- the season for house selling -- is here, and the national picture continues to be bleak at best. The national data released so far this year have been extremely weak and worrisome. 
 Existing and new home sales declined sharply in the first quarter of this year and permits for future construction in April were down 28 percent from their year-ago levels. A large backlog of unsold new and existing homes is growing, with almost eight months of supply up for sale.
Here in the metropolitan area, many analysts are predicting that a housing slowdown will bring about a regional recession. But the facts suggest otherwise. So far the softening housing market has had only a minor impact on the Long Island and Westchester economy. In the first three months of the year, home sales in the suburbs declined modestly and prices stagnated, but this development comes after years of sharp increases. Inventories are up but real estate agents on Long Island and in Westchester report steady traffic at open houses and continued buyer interest. 
 Our regional economy is simply better prepared to weather the housing storm than the national economy, for two reasons. First, the regional economy has avoided the excesses of other regions. Most fundamentally, the balance of supply and demand for housing remains quite favorable with demand still outpacing supply. The overbuilding and speculation prevalent in markets in Arizona, California and Florida is not evident here. 
 In contrast to those areas, Long Island and Westchester suffer from a lack of new construction, or even a housing shortage. This is clear in the building permit data. Permits for new construction issued last year totaled only about 4,000 units in Nassau and Suffolk and 850 in Westchester. During the last five years, the total number of building permits issued was only about 31,000 units in these three counties. By comparison, last year alone -- the height of the housing bubble -- more than 26,000 permits were issued in Miami-Dade County. 
 Second, a strong and diversified Long Island and Westchester economy will limit the extent of the downturn. The local economies remain sound and vibrant, churning new jobs and new sources of income. 
 Our big worry late last year and early this year was a sharp slowdown in regional employment growth. The data at the time suggested that the economies of Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester Counties were moving into a recession. 
 Then on March 8, the Bureau of Labor Statistics released its annual benchmark revisions to the employment data for all the metro areas in the United States. Compared with the initial data, the revised data show a fairly robust economy and substantially higher job growth. 
 For the first quarter of this year, jobs increased by more than 1 percent on Long Island and in Westchester, and by over 1.5 percent in New York City where many commuters from the region work. This is very strong growth given that the suburban economies are essentially at full employment, with growing labor shortages and unemployment rates in April approaching 3 percent on Long Island and in Westchester, well below the 4.5 percent national average. 
 Rising incomes provide a further cushion for the suburban economies. During the last three years, personal income growth on Long Island and Westchester has significantly outpaced the nation's because of vigorous growth in incomes for commuters and the self-employed. Clearly, Long Island and Westchester are benefiting from a resurgent New York City economy and a growing number of local entrepreneurs. 
 So for those who are worried about a softening housing market and a collapse in prices, the picture here in the metro area is not as bad. The boom of the last few years will simply fizzle out into an extended period of flat or slowly rising home prices and sales.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); BUILDING PERMITS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RECESSION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); STATISTICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); CITIES (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (74%); SALES FIGURES (73%); INVENTORIES (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); SUBURBS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (77%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



539 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Paperback Row; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 833 words

BYLINE: By Ihsan Taylor

 BODY:
 THE ROAD, by Cormac McCarthy. (Vintage International, $14.95.) In this Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, a man and his young son travel across the wretched landscape of a post-apocalyptic world. A nuclear holocaust has reduced everything to ash -- clocks stopped at 1:17; the sky opened with ''a long shear of light and then a series of low concussions'' -- and the survivors must kill or be killed (and eaten). As winter approaches, McCarthy's unnamed heroes scavenge their way south to the Gulf Coast, encountering all manner of perils and remnants of the lost world. In the Book Review, William Kennedy called this terrifying parable ''consistently brilliant in its imagining of the posthumous condition of nature and civilization.'' THE SHIA REVIVAL: How Conflicts Within Islam Will Shape the Future, by Vali Nasr. 
(Norton, $14.95.) A timely history of the age-old split between Islam's two major sects -- the majority Sunnis and minority Shiites -- ''The Shia Revival'' argues that Operation Iraqi Freedom has created a Middle East shaped less by the ideal of democracy than by political and theological wars within Islam. THE MAN OF MY DREAMS, by Curtis Sittenfeld. (Random House, $13.95.) Like her predecessor in ''Prep,'' Hannah, the protagonist of Sittenfeld's incisive second novel, is a lonely outsider who casts a critical eye on her peers. The novel follows Hannah through the various stations of her self-conscious, doubt-racked life -- parents' divorce, college, first job -- dissecting her turbulent relationships with men. AVA GARDNER: ''Love Is Nothing,'' by Lee Server. (St. Martin's Griffin, $17.95.) ''Hers was the old rags-to-riches story,'' Server writes in his richly entertaining biography of Ava Gardner (1922-90), ''a Cinderella rewrite, the barefoot country girl who became a reluctant movie queen.'' Server chronicles Gardner's highs and lows: her poor though happy childhood in rural North Carolina; the mainly disappointing films she was forced to make under the old studio star system; and her tempestuous marriages to Mickey Rooney, Artie Shaw and Frank Sinatra. Our reviewer, Peter Bogdanovich, called this biography ''enthralling'': ''In the space of these pages, we befriend, then fall in love with, then finally mourn a remarkably beautiful woman who was surprisingly shy, yet spoke her mind fearlessly (and often colorfully), who thought little of herself as an actress, who lived in a man's world yet managed not to be fooled into losing sight of who she was.'' SHE MAY NOT LEAVE, by Fay Weldon. (Grove, $13.) Weldon turns her acerbic eye to the desperate neediness of Martyn and Hattie, two-career Londoners; their 6-month-old daughter, Kitty; and their Polish nanny, Agnieszka Wyszynska, who appears to be better at parenting than the parents themselves. POWER AND THE IDEALISTS: Or, The Passion of Joschka Fischer, and Its Aftermath, by Paul Berman. (Norton, $14.95.) Berman, the author of ''A Tale of Two Utopias'' and ''Terror and Liberalism,'' examines the legacy of the New Left in Europe since 1968 and the intellectual journey of Joschka Fischer, a onetime radical who became Germany's foreign minister and most admired politician. THE SECRET RIVER, by Kate Grenville. (Canongate, $14.) A Booker Prize finalist last year, this unflinching novel -- loosely based on Grenville's family history -- explores modern Australia's origins through the tale of William Thornhill, a Thames boatman and petty thief who is banished with his wife to New South Wales in 1806. BIG COAL: The Dirty Secret Behind America's Energy Future, by Jeff Goodell. (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, $14.95.) Coal, Goodell argues in this critique of one of the country's biggest, most powerful and most antiquated industries, is bad for the economy, bad for public health and especially bad for the environment. ''But we've been hooked on coal for almost 150 years now,'' he writes, ''and like a Bowery junkie, we keep telling ourselves it's time to come clean, without ever actually doing it.'' Goodell considers coal at three points in its life cycle: its mining, its transformation into electricity and its role in climate change. READING LIKE A WRITER: A Guide for People Who Love Books and for Those Who Want to Write Them, by Francine Prose. (Harper Perennial, $13.95.) Prose, who brilliantly satirized creative-writing workshops in her novel ''Blue Angel,'' explains how close reading -- savoring books rather than racing through them -- informs good writing. ''Reading Like a Writer'' singles out excerpts from Prose's favorite writers and includes a list of 117 ''Books to Be Read Immediately.'' A MIRROR IN THE ROADWAY: Literature and the Real World, by Morris Dickstein. (Princeton University, $16.95.) Beginning with how writers like Whitman, Melville and Wharton described life in New York, Dickstein, in 20 lucid essays, celebrates the enduring power of the novel, providing biographical portraits of a diverse group of writers and their cultural moments. Ihsan Taylor

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); RELIGION (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (88%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (85%); IRAQ WAR (70%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); FILM (65%); BRAIN INJURIES (56%); WAR ON TERROR (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



540 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: America the Generous: A Lost Story of Citizenship

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

 BODY:
When people bicker over immigration, it's often not long before the topic turns to My Family Came Here Legally. People whose roots go to Ellis Island or deeper like to say that. It fills their family trees with hard-working people who were poor but played by the rules, who got with the American program. It draws a bright line between upstanding Americans and those shadowy illegal workers hiding one big secret and who knows how many others.
 It's that line -- that moral chasm between Us and Them, and between an idealized history and the muddled present -- that informs the worst parts of the Senate immigration bill. It's not only the provisions that create an incredibly grudging path to citizenship for illegal immigrants -- charging them $5,000 apiece and requiring them to jump through pointless and punishing hoops that include a ''touchback'' trip home to Mexico, say, or Manila. It's also the belief that immigrants with little to offer us but their toil and sweat should be brought in only as guest laborers, with no hope of becoming citizens, and that the paths to entry for immigrants' relatives must be narrowed. 
Congress has taken the week off from the debate, with members going home to districts that have already been inflamed by the loud and loony right, which has decided that the bill is that filthy thing ''amnesty'' and that the nation's character would be defiled if it ever forgave illegal immigrants for coming here to do our worst jobs, or let too many more people in to put down roots. You could call that view unkind and uncharitable. You could also call it unwise, given economic realities.
 I would add un-American.
 My view has been informed by ''Americans in Waiting,'' a book by Hiroshi Motomura, a law professor at the University of North Carolina, about what he calls a lost story of a confident young country that opened itself to newcomers in ways that seem unthinkably generous today. 
 For about 150 years, Professor Motomura writes, from shortly after the country's birth to the end of the Ellis Island heyday in the 1920s, when there were no numerical limits to immigration and the flow was mostly from western Europe, new immigrants could gain many of the rights of citizens by signing a document declaring their intention to naturalize. They became Americans in waiting, able to work, vote, buy land and clear homesteads.
 The elegant idea was that immigration was simply the beginning of an inevitable transition toward full membership in a growing country. The ancestors of so many Americans, including today's immigration hard-liners, benefited from it.
 It's important not to romanticize that history. The doors were more open for white Europeans than for members of other groups, like the Chinese and Japanese, who were almost entirely shut out. Many white immigrants -- the Irish, Italians, European Jews -- suffered profound discrimination once they arrived. Over time, the era of Ellis Island gave way to quotas, country and employment categories, and long waiting lists for everyone. With long waiting lists came people desperate enough to jump them.
 The newcomer, once a citizen's near equal, has come to be viewed as a perpetual outsider. The dominant view of immigration is no longer what Professor Motomura calls ''immigration as transition'' but immigration as ''contract'' and ''affiliation.'' Immigrants must meet ever-more-demanding terms of entry and slowly forge connections here before equality becomes an option. 
 Professor Motomura does not argue that ''immigration as transition'' is the superior or only model, but rather that it should be restored to its place beside the other two. He would go much farther than today's politicians in giving rights to new legal immigrants -- even granting government benefits -- but on the condition that they take advantage of the chance to become citizens after five years. Those who do not would revert to a more limited status.
 Professor Motomura contends that the machinery of assimilation will work if we let it. Immigrants who are unduly insecure, he says, who are worried not only about jobs, health and finances but also contractual obligations that the United States could revoke at any time, naturally retreat to ethnic enclaves. Those who are confident in their welcome, he argues, are more likely to plunge headlong into American life.
 Professor Motomura, whose parents immigrated from Japan, is convinced that immigrants will cherish citizenship more if it is easier to get. Maybe that's crazy. But it's American, and reflects a confidence in this country that the architects of the restrictive parts of the Senate bill have lost, if they ever had it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); DENATURALIZATION (89%); FAMILY (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); AMNESTY (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



541 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: I Wrote It. Is It Mine for All Time?

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Great Idea Lives Forever. Shouldn't Its Copyright?'' (Op-Ed, May 20):
 Mark Helprin makes the alarming suggestion that copyrights should be extended as far as the Constitution will allow. He complains about treating intellectual property differently than other property. But different treatment makes sense.
Unlike land or a purse, an idea -- the chorus of a rock song or a story from a book -- can be picked up inadvertently without obvious loss to the ''owner.'' By creating a practically infinite pool of pre-existing copyrights to unwittingly infringe, Mr. Helprin's suggestion would impose stifling costs on the generation of new ideas. 
 Besides, many laws discourage perpetual property ownership. Although the wealthy have often succeeded in dismantling those rules, they are important to democratic capitalism. 
 The open-source software phenomenon undermines Mr. Helprin's premise. Human beings seem to produce high-quality ideas at a dizzying rate, even without proprietary incentives. Michael Kron Juneau, Alaska, May 21, 2007 To the Editor:
 Mark Helprin argues that intellectual property should be granted the same protections as physical property. While the symmetry of this argument holds some aesthetic appeal, there is no economic rationale.
 The economic rationale for perpetual protection of physical property is that such property cannot be used by two people at the same time. Society will not get any more holes if you take my shovel. And my incentive to invest in a shovel will depend upon my confidence that the government will protect my rights to its future use.
 The economic rationale for treating intellectual property differently is that once discovered, intellectual property can be used by many people at the same time. If I invent a better way to tie my shoes, my use is not compromised by others tying their shoes in the same way. But this must be balanced against the benefit of incentives that encourage me to discover new ways to tie a shoe.
 Ideally, copyrights and patents last long enough to encourage discovery of new ideas, but not so long as to allow monopoly use in perpetuity. Michael J. Orlando Denver, May 21, 2007 To the Editor:
 Mark Helprin complains that '' 'freeing' a literary work into the public domain is less a public benefit than a transfer of wealth from the families of American writers to the executives and stockholders of various businesses.'' 
 Yet, as he also notes, ''Barnes & Noble is able to publish price-reduced non-copyrighted works not so much because it saves the 10 percent to 15 percent of revenue that would go to the gruel-eating authors, but because it saves the 50 percent that would go to the publishers.'' 
 In other words, the transfer of wealth on expiration of copyright is primarily from one media corporation to another (and, dare I mention, to the public), not from some writer's suffering great-granddaughter.
 It is surprising that a successful writer has not noticed that it is not he who benefits the most financially from his work. Sarah Trombley New York, May 20, 2007 To the Editor:
 James Madison lived in an age of professional writers liberated from the demands of state licensing and the constraints of patronage. He followed the English precedent in balancing the benefit of copyright to authors with the public good. 
 Mark Helprin's call for even longer term extensions would ensure that ever-increasing numbers of ''orphan works'' were kept out of print, and would retard rather than ''promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts,'' as the Constitution desires.
 To publish is to make public; if an author seeks perpetual control over his writings, he should toss them on the fire, lest they be read. Far better to have them enter the public domain so that centuries hence, other authors might take inspiration for their own creations. Nick Sweeney Asheville, N.C., May 20, 2007 To the Editor:
 Mark Helprin's proposal to extend copyright to infinity would make perfect sense if the ultimate aim of making art were to make money. 
 Not that artists don't like money. Not that they are unwilling to pass it to their descendants. But ultimately, if it were riches they were after, they could find much easier paths. 
 Their art is themselves, their souls, their visions, and they make art to speak more powerfully to the world than they could to their neighbors across the fence. 
 Copyright is a tax on speaking to the world. It inhibits communication and is a fetter on art. A little of it is fine, so that artists can live and prosper and receive material recognition for their work. But Mozart's heirs are his operas, not his offspring, and I think letting his music flow free is what he would have desired. Stephen Brown O'Fallon, Ill., May 20, 2007 To the Editor:
 If Mark Twain's copyrights were still valid, his works could not be taught in schools because of the prohibitive cost. The extension of copyright protection enlists the aid of the state in protecting authors for a time, but the lapse of this protection is not confiscation by the state.
 The period of the author's life plus 70 years is too long (it used to be shorter). Corporate interest, rather than benefits to authors, drove the change. The heirs of Mickey Mouse, not Hemingway, benefited. William Barber Missouri City, Tex., May 20, 2007 To the Editor:
 Mark Helprin, like Samuel Johnson before him, evidently believes that ''no man but a blockhead ever wrote except for money.'' 
 And yet this page of letters to the editor -- to say nothing of the blogosphere -- is filled by the work of those willing to create for no reward except the chance to be heard. 
 Copyright protection should be granted only to the extent that it will ''promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts.'' At some point -- and reasonable people can disagree where that point lies -- greater protection yields only monopoly profits for the rights holder and indeed impedes the progress that the founders sought to promote. Joseph Bernstein, M.D. Haverford, Pa., May 20, 2007 The writer is a founder of a wiki for orthopedic surgery. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jon Han) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COPYRIGHT (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); WRITERS (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); PATENTS (77%); LITERATURE (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POP & ROCK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (75%) ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



542 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Sure, Inflation Is Tame, but Don't Forget Other Risks

BYLINE: By NORM ALSTER

 BODY:
THE blizzard of economic data streaming out of Washington can move markets, but it can confuse the nonprofessional investor. Wall Street strategists, by contrast, can rely on voluminous databases and high-powered computers for help in constructing a coherent picture of the markets and the economy. 
 Right now, several top strategists say, the main brushstrokes on that canvas are these: slowing economic growth and milder inflation, combined with increasing complacency about market risk. That complacency is complicating the traditional approaches to investing in a time of low inflation.
''This picture makes me optimistic about the long term but a bit cautious about the short term, given the market's run-up of the last few months'' said Stuart A. Schweitzer, global markets strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management. Mr. Schweitzer is generally bullish -- but he suggests that investors hold more cash than usual, as a kind of insurance policy. 
 Stocks and bonds usually tend to benefit from mild inflation. And the latest inflation data was encouraging: the core annualized inflation rate, excluding volatile energy and food costs, was 2.2 percent in April. Alan F. Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward Jones, says he expects inflation for all of 2007 to total 2.4 percent. Historically, he said, when inflation runs at less than 3 percent, stocks sell at an average price-to-earnings multiple of 17.6. Currently, stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index trade at a multiple just below that, one reason that Mr. Skrainka says stocks, despite a sustained rally, are still not overvalued.
 Subdued inflation suggests to many analysts that interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve are on the horizon. For example, Michael P. Ryan, managing director and head of wealth management research at UBS, expects an initial rate cut in September, with more to follow. ''Through 2008, we're looking for 150 points in rate cuts,'' Mr. Ryan predicted, referring to basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. ''That would bring down the Fed funds rate to 3.75 percent.'' 
 Ordinarily, a steep fall in the Fed funds rate might be expected to set off a rally in bonds, whose prices rise as interest rates fall. But for many reasons, Mr. Ryan and other strategists are not rushing to bonds. Mr. Ryan notes that 10-year Treasury notes moved very little in response to the recent skein of 17 Fed rate increases. ''It's improbable to expect a sustained rally in the longer end of the Treasury market given the fact that we didn't get a significant sell-off when the Fed was raising rates,'' he said. 
 He advises investors in corporate bonds to stick to quality issues. ''The risk premium on lower-quality issues is very narrow,'' he said. ''It doesn't pay to dip down in quality.''
 Don Alexander, fixed-income researcher at Citi Global Wealth Management Investments, is also leery of bonds, particularly those of longer maturities. ''We don't think the credit sectors have focused on risk correctly,'' Mr. Alexander said. He favors short-term Treasuries over longer-term issues, seeing ''some potential for gains in the two-year sector.''
 But he worries that long-term Treasuries are exposed to the risk of an economic rebound later this year or in 2008. ''There's still a chance that long-term rates rise if a rebound materializes later this year,'' he said.
 And he is especially negative on corporate bonds. ''Keep minimum exposure to corporate bonds,'' he said, ''because you're not being adequately compensated for risk.''
 Mr. Alexander expressed concerned about signs of rising leverage among corporate borrowers at the same time that ''profit margins are beginning to be squeezed.'' Over all, he said, ''we think the financial markets are more susceptible to risk.''
 Some strategists say that several stock sectors are still attractive. Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, recommends health care and consumer staples stocks. With both the economy and inflation losing steam, she explained, ''investors should put a slight premium on stability of earnings growth.'' 
 Consumer staples, which include household products, food, tobacco and beverages, tend ''to be a sector that's appealing when economic growth is slowing,'' she said. 
 In addition, she would avoid the consumer discretionary sector, which includes sellers of non-essential goods. Currently, she said, consumer spending on essentials like energy, food and mortgage debt is at an all-time high as a percentage of disposable income: just over 55 percent. That leaves less for things like nightlife and shopping sprees. 
 At UBS Wealth Management Research, Jeremy A. Zirin, senior equity strategist, also recommends the traditionally defensive sectors of health care and consumer staples. Health care stocks are trading at a slightly lower premium to the overall market than they usually do, Mr. Zirin said. And consumer-staples companies like Procter & Gamble, Clorox and Colgate-Palmolive use huge quantities of chemicals and other commodities whose prices could stabilize in a slowing economy with mild inflation. Under those economic circumstances, the earnings of such companies typically grow faster than those of many other sectors.
 Despite the possibility of an economic slowdown, some strategists are still keen on industrial companies, particularly machinery and equipment makers, that can benefit from strength in overseas economies. Already, the market has begun to favor such stocks. In the 12 months ended April 30, the stocks of companies in the S.& P. 500 that had above-average international exposure advanced by 16 percent, noted Mr. Zirin. Those of companies with below-average international business gained just 8 percent. ''That's a sustainable trend for the next one to two years,'' Mr. Zirin said.
 Market optimists cite continued economic strength overseas -- along with subdued inflation -- as major reasons for their bullishness. International economies are growing more strongly than that of the United States, noted Mr. Schweitzer at JPMorgan. Europe, especially, is benefiting from increased trade with Asia. In the fourth quarter of 2006, European exports to China soared 25 percent over the fourth quarter of 2005. Mr. Schweitzer urged investors to tilt slightly away from domestic equities toward investment in European companies.
 But even bullish strategists like him are counseling caution. 
 ''I'm an optimist about inflation, and therefore I'm optimistic on a long-term basis about the market,'' he said, but he immediately conceded that he might be wrong. ''I want a hedge against being wrong about inflation,'' he said. 
 Toward that end, he advises investors to opt for short-term bond maturities, to increase their cash holdings and to tilt more toward the stocks of developed countries outside the United States. 
 MS. SONDERS at Charles Schwab sees some warning signals in the stock and bond markets. 
 ''There's a lot of complacency about risk,'' she said, citing as evidence a proliferation of high-risk debt, the narrow differences in yield or ''spreads'' between high-quality and high-risk debt, and low market volatility. So why wouldn't investors jump off the runaway train before it comes to an abrupt, bone-jarring halt? 
 ''Realistically,'' she said, ''when the light starts to flash yellow about too much complacency, it can flash for a long time before the markets turn down.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (68%); INSURANCE POLICIES (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



543 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 2103 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood On the Lackawanna?

BYLINE: By JOHN MARCHESE

DATELINE: SCRANTON, Pa. 

 BODY:
ON a dreary weekday afternoon this winter, the burly, gregarious actor Paul Sorvino sat in a darkened hotel meeting room here, working on the next act in his long-running career in show business.
 Sprawled in a plush upholstered armchair, glasses perched on his bulbous, slightly off-center nose, Mr. Sorvino, 68, watched himself act on a flat-screen monitor. By his own count it is his 113th film role, and at first glance it would seem a typical Paul Sorvino part: New York police lieutenant. But this big, lumbering cop is ready to leave a failing marriage, seduce a talented young male neighbor, compose an operetta called ''Homo Sapien'' and paint his toenails bright red.
The film, ''The Trouble With Cali,'' the story of a beautiful and talented young woman trying to survive her dysfunctional family, is Mr. Sorvino's debut as a feature film director. It also represents an initial small step in his grand -- and, at first glance, quixotic -- dream to turn Scranton, a former coal mining town 125 miles west of Manhattan, into a filmmaking center. 
 If all goes as planned, Scranton would not only be home base to Mr. Sorvino's own Miranda Films but also offer other filmmakers a full-service production house with soundstages, editing and looping rooms and a recording studio. All with costs a fraction of those in Los Angeles or New York. 
 As he tries to become a mini-movie mogul, Mr. Sorvino -- actor, opera singer, sculptor, Italian foods purveyor -- has found it necessary to try his hand at raising venture capital and lobbying politicians. He has already convinced the government of Lackawanna County, home to Scranton, to supply more than half of the $820,000 shooting budget for ''The Trouble With Cali.'' But negotiating partnerships with real estate developers and landing state financing for the $12 million to $15 million production facility are proving more difficult, bringing with them complaints of familial favoritism and even a run-in with Pennsylvania's governor, Edward G. Rendell.
 The experience has not dimmed his ardor for turning Scranton into another Hollywood East. Playing studio boss may be his last job in a career that began as a car salesman in his native Brooklyn and led to acting roles like Detective Phil Cerreta in the early years of ''Law & Order'' and the deadly epicurean mob boss Paul Cicero in ''Goodfellas.''
 ''It's time for me to have my own studio,'' Mr. Sorvino said. ''It would be the best way for me to use the combination of all my skills.''
 The unlikely story of Scranton as film center begins 25 years ago, when the town's most famous native son, the actor and playwright Jason Miller, hired Mr. Sorvino for a role in the feature film adaptation of his Pulitzer Prize- and Tony Award-winning drama, ''That Championship Season.'' The play and movie told the story of former members of a small-town high school basketball team who gather with their coach for yearly reunions to celebrate an unlikely state championship. Two decades on, the joy of their bright, youthful success is increasingly tarnished by the accumulation of middle-aged defeats.
 Mr. Sorvino played the role of Phil Romano, a thrill-seeking businessman who bankrolls the political ambitions of a former teammate, the town's mayor, and also sleeps with his wife. The movie part reprised his Broadway performance, for which he had received a Tony nomination 10 years before. ''It was the best role I've had onstage,'' Mr. Sorvino said. ''It made my career.'' 
 It also cemented a deep infatuation with the town. ''Paul Sorvino came to town 25 years ago to make that movie,'' said the mayor of Scranton, Christopher A. Doherty, ''and, basically, he never left.'' Mr. Sorvino made a number of friends around town during the filming of ''That Championship Season,'' including the Lackawanna County sheriff, who made him an official deputy. He has performed arias at a downtown theater, and he gets his cars from a local dealer, R. J. Burne (the latest being a Cadillac Escalade). Seven years ago, he bought a farm in the nearby Pocono Mountains and made it his home.
 Mr. Sorvino's most recent connection to Scranton began when he offered to create and donate to the city a sculpture of Jason Miller. Mr. Miller had left a promising film acting career (he received an Academy Award nomination for his first film role, as Father Damien Karras in ''The Exorcist'') and come back to Scranton for good in 1990. He became the guiding spirit and director of the Scranton Public Theater, and he did occasional acting and screenwriting, including a lightly altered update of ''That Championship Season,'' which Mr. Sorvino directed for Showtime in 1999. Mostly, Mr. Miller drank.
 ''I told him all the time,'' Mr. Sorvino remembered, ''I'm worried about you, Jason. You've got to do something about the drinking. He never wrote anything valuable again. How could he do it? He destroyed his brain between the alcohol and the drugs.''
 On a Sunday in May 2001, Mr. Miller fell to the floor in his favorite Scranton bar, Farley's, and died of a heart attack.
 A few years after the funeral, a young Scranton lawyer who had been elected one of three commissioners of Lackawanna County was introduced to Mr. Sorvino.
 ''We started talking about Jason and his accomplishments, and Paul told me that he was a sculptor,'' Robert Cordaro, that commissioner, said. ''I don't remember who initiated it, but I think I asked Paul, 'Let's do a sculpture of Jason Miller and put it on the courthouse square.' '' 
 The announcement was greeted with a strong negative reaction from local veterans' groups, who felt that they were not well represented by statuary on Scranton's main square and that Mr. Miller was not exactly statue material. Eventually Mr. Cordaro brokered a compromise in which the courthouse square would have a new veterans' plaza and a section featuring a bronze bust of Mr. Miller by Mr. Sorvino (who says he is still working on it) and plaques honoring other famous Scrantonians, like the playwright Jean Kerr, the urbanologist Jane Jacobs and the poet W. S. Merwin.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Sorvino and Mr. Cordaro were getting to know each other. Mr. Sorvino mentioned that he wanted to start producing and directing feature films and even had one finished script, a tale of an unusual New York family. Mr. Cordaro, who had worked for a Los Angeles law firm early in his career and lived for a time in Hollywood, said he believed that Scranton's size and look made it uniquely adaptable as a film location. 
 ''You could do a big city piece,'' he said, ''a period piece, a small-city piece, a small-town piece, and within five minutes you could be in a field or on a farm. And your costs are reasonable.'' 
 Mr. Cordaro asked Mr. Sorvino, ''What can we do to get your movie sited here?'' The actor answered, ''Well, you could save me the headache of going out and raising money.''
 The decision by Lackawanna County to funnel a half million dollars of its arts and culture budget into a low-budget film by a first-time feature director is not without critics in Scranton.
 ''We live in a county that just had a 48 percent tax increase,'' said Michael J. Washo, the minority Democratic Party commissioner in Lackawanna County. ''These are precious tax dollars, and you don't just give them out. You step over the line when you're a county of our size and you start reaching out to New York and Hollywood. We're not in the venture capital business.''
 Mr. Washo remembered the financing for Mr. Sorvino's film being pushed through at a meeting where Mr. Sorvino showed up unexpectedly. ''He was a big man in a small room,'' Mr. Washo said, ''about half the size of the room physically. Frankly, I voted for it then because I didn't want to spoil their party. He's someone who can bring a lot of positive publicity to our area. But if he was someone who had the ability to get capital -- which he said he did -- why reward him with half a million dollars?'' 
 Particularly if, as some letter-writers to local papers have complained, the money allowed Mr. Sorvino to turn the movie into a family affair. His daughter Mira Sorvino showed up in Scranton for two days to shoot her role as a wheelchair-using French ballet mistress. The script was written by Mr. Sorvino's other daughter, Amanda. And his son, Michael, played a young street poet named Guido and took on producing chores. 
 Mr. Cordaro, who will be listed as an executive producer in the credits of ''The Trouble With Cali,'' defended the process and the project. ''There are some people around who think Paul is here to take,'' he said. ''But $500,000 falls out of trees in Los Angeles. When do you have an opportunity to create a brand-new industry, a cutting-edge industry? It's an incredible opportunity for us as an investment.''
 ''One, I think we got a real good project that has a good promise of return,'' he continued, adding that the Sorvino clan represented $10 million in talent. ''But the bigger concept all along was: movie, another movie, another movie -- then get to a production facility with soundstages, looping rooms, everything you need, soup to nuts. That was our goal for this from the very beginning: to have a film presence here in Scranton. I can't think of a better place.''
 Until recently, it would have been hard to picture Scranton as being ready for its close-up. When Mr. Miller filmed there in the early 1980s, his exterior scenes were full of decaying landmarks and empty storefronts. But Scranton, with a population of 74,000, appears to be at some kind of turning point. Lately economic development has picked up. The city has gained a certain notoriety as the setting of the fictional paper company Dunder Mifflin in the NBC comedy ''The Office.'' Scranton has opened a film office, though beyond a few cable channel productions, the most high-profile filming has consisted of aerial shots of fall foliage that appeared briefly in ''Stuart Little.'' This spring the Scranton Yankees took the field as the top minor league franchise of the New York Yankees. 
 ''We hit a home run by getting the Yankees to come here,'' Mr. Cordaro said with a laugh. ''Maybe now we're getting a little bit cocky.''
 Since making the announcement of his wish to open a production house that would make up to five movies a year, Mr. Sorvino has looked at several possible sites. After he toured a 125-acre former colliery in the nearby borough of Taylor, The Times-Tribune of Scranton ran an article that began: ''Picture it: A former coal town reborn as Tinseltown east.'' This spring Mr. Sorvino began negotiations with Philadelphia-area developers who own an empty 336,500-square-foot factory on 223 acres 15 miles north of Scranton.
 In his first months as potential mogul, Mr. Sorvino has suffered some slips. In January he announced that he had substantial venture capital financing lined up (from unnamed investors) and that Mr. Rendell, the governor, had promised matching money from the state's capital redevelopment budget in a private meeting several months before. The governor's office insisted that there had been no promise and that there was no money available. 
 Not long after that, Mr. Sorvino showed up to meet Mr. Rendell as he arrived to give a speech in Scranton. The hallway encounter left the governor, according to a news report, ''flustered.''
 ''The governor was a bit distressed'' at Mr. Sorvino's surprise appearance, said Chuck Aldo, a spokesman for Mr. Rendell. ''He didn't have time to meet with Mr. Sorvino that day and thought that message had been relayed.''
 Asked about the incident, Mr. Sorvino raised his booming voice a level. ''I didn't confront him,'' he said. ''You mean like I was calling out another fighter? No! He said, 'I can't meet,' and I said, 'I understand.' But I think he will be helpful, I really do.'' 
 Mr. Sorvino and Mr. Cordaro later did have a meeting with the governor. But as of now, Mr. Aldo said, there is no money available for the project. ''If and when there is, Mr. Sorvino's request will be considered with others of the same nature,'' he said.
 Both the actor and the county commissioner say a Scranton film production house could be built without state financing. And they are quick to point out that other towns as seemingly unlikely as Scranton -- like Wilmington, N.C., and Shreveport, La. -- have become active and lucrative regional production centers. 
 ''I love Scranton,'' Mr. Sorvino said. ''It's a wonderful place. And then I found out how easy it is to do a picture there. Maybe that's because they understand I love them and they love me.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mr. Sorvino has been working to establish a film production house in or near Scranton
meanwhile, he has been directing his first feature film, written by his daughter Amanda, below right.
 The actor Paul Sorvino, left, in Scranton, Pa., which he envisions as a future center for moviemaking. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) Map of Pennsylvania highlighting Scranton. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); RUNNING (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); WRITERS (68%); BUDGETS (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (63%); ORGANIZED CRIME (60%); LOBBYING (58%); COAL MINING (52%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



544 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: The Crash That Passed Us By

BYLINE: By Panos Mourdoukoutas and Paul Kutasovic. 
Panos Mourdoukoutas is a professor of economics at Long Island University. Paul Kutasovic is a professor of economics at New York Institute of Technology.

 BODY:
SPRING -- the season for house selling -- is here, and the national picture continues to be bleak at best. The national data released so far this year have been extremely weak and worrisome. 
 Existing and new home sales declined sharply in the first quarter of this year and permits for future construction in April were down 28 percent from their year-ago levels. A large backlog of unsold new and existing homes is growing, with almost eight months of supply up for sale.
Here in the metropolitan area, many analysts are predicting that a housing slowdown will bring about a regional recession. But the facts suggest otherwise. So far the softening housing market has had only a minor impact on the Long Island and Westchester economy. In the first three months of the year, home sales in the suburbs declined modestly and prices stagnated, but this development comes after years of sharp increases. Inventories are up but real estate agents on Long Island and in Westchester report steady traffic at open houses and continued buyer interest. 
 Our regional economy is simply better prepared to weather the housing storm than the national economy, for two reasons. First, the regional economy has avoided the excesses of other regions. Most fundamentally, the balance of supply and demand for housing remains quite favorable with demand still outpacing supply. The overbuilding and speculation prevalent in markets in Arizona, California and Florida is not evident here. 
 In contrast to those areas, Long Island and Westchester suffer from a lack of new construction, or even a housing shortage. This is clear in the building permit data. Permits for new construction issued last year totaled only about 4,000 units in Nassau and Suffolk and 850 in Westchester. During the last five years, the total number of building permits issued was only about 31,000 units in these three counties. By comparison, last year alone -- the height of the housing bubble -- more than 26,000 permits were issued in Miami-Dade County. 
 Second, a strong and diversified Long Island and Westchester economy will limit the extent of the downturn. The local economies remain sound and vibrant, churning new jobs and new sources of income. 
 Our big worry late last year and early this year was a sharp slowdown in regional employment growth. The data at the time suggested that the economies of Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester Counties were moving into a recession. 
 Then on March 8, the Bureau of Labor Statistics released its annual benchmark revisions to the employment data for all the metro areas in the United States. Compared with the initial data, the revised data show a fairly robust economy and substantially higher job growth. 
 For the first quarter of this year, jobs increased by more than 1 percent on Long Island and in Westchester, and by over 1.5 percent in New York City where many commuters from the region work. This is very strong growth given that the suburban economies are essentially at full employment, with growing labor shortages and unemployment rates in April approaching 3 percent on Long Island and in Westchester, well below the 4.5 percent national average. 
 Rising incomes provide a further cushion for the suburban economies. During the last three years, personal income growth on Long Island and Westchester has significantly outpaced the nation's because of vigorous growth in incomes for commuters and the self-employed. Clearly, Long Island and Westchester are benefiting from a resurgent New York City economy and a growing number of local entrepreneurs. 
 So for those who are worried about a softening housing market and a collapse in prices, the picture here in the metro area is not as bad. The boom of the last few years will simply fizzle out into an extended period of flat or slowly rising home prices and sales.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); BUILDING PERMITS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RECESSION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); STATISTICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); CITIES (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (74%); SALES FIGURES (73%); INVENTORIES (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); SUBURBS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (77%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



545 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: It's Spring. Somebody Tell the Buyers.

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN; Elsa Brenner contributed reporting from Westchester County, Valerie Cotsalas from Long Island and Lisa Prevost from Connecticut.

 BODY:
IT'S spring, the traditional time for hope and growth in residential real estate sales. But beyond the borders of New York City, there are indications that a wintry chill besets the market in much of the region.
 On Long Island and in Connecticut, brokers report the inventory of unsold homes continues to build, while the number of buyers is reduced by new lending restrictions.
In New Jersey, the market seems to have slowed from March to April -- just when things would ordinarily be revving up. The number of sales contracts signed in April declined in 20 of 22 counties monitored by the Otteau Valuation Group, which does market analysis for brokers. Even in Hudson County, which encompasses such sought-after riverfront towns as Hoboken and Jersey City, sales volume declined 21 percent. 
 Next month, units at one newly built high-end condominium building in Hoboken will be put up for auction. Forty of 128 units at the complex, Velocity, which will have 24-hour concierge service, are to be offered at base prices set well below the cost of construction, according to Erik Kaiser, chief executive of the REMI Companies, the developer.
 Mr. Kaiser described the auction, to be held on June 24, as an ''out of the box'' strategy designed to generate a blast of attention for high-quality units in a market that he characterized as extremely hot. But the Otteau Group's statistics indicate that Hoboken is actually getting colder: There were 25 percent fewer sales in April than in March.
 Next door in Jersey City, where numerous condominium projects are under way, 16 percent fewer sales contracts were signed last month than the month before, according to the Otteau Group. 
 Jeffrey G. Otteau, president of the company that bears his name, analyzes numbers of signed contracts rather than closed sales, as most multiple listing services do, because they present a more timely read on market conditions. The April statistics are the latest available, he said, and are being provided this week to agents who subscribe to his service.
 Many brokers in New Jersey, as elsewhere in the region, continue to speak of the market as having bottomed out and moving into recovery. In Westchester County, sales are up, asserted P. Gilbert Mercurio, of the County Board of Realtors. There were 4 percent more closed sales in the six-week period April 1 through May 17 compared with the year before, Mr. Mercurio said.
 But Mr. Otteau suggested that such reports might possibly lag behind reality. He said that he, too, had predicted market recovery in New Jersey by now -- and that he had been somewhat surprised by the further weakening in April. Given the definitiveness of the statistics, however, and the likely reasons behind them, Mr. Otteau said he thought the same scenario probably held true around the region.
 ''I would say there are two things affecting the market negatively right now,'' he summarized: ''tightening lending standards as a result of problems with the subprime market, and fear that the problems will spill over and affect the market as a whole.'' 
 On Long Island in recent years, many homes in the middle price range -- $400,000 to $700,000 -- sold with 100 percent financing and multiple loans, said Kathy Anastasio of Anastasio Associates in Huntington. Since banks pulled back on subprime lending practices, ''we lost about 30 percent of our buyers in that price range,'' Ms. Anastasio said.
 But even well-qualified buyers appear to have become more reluctant, Mr. Otteau said. ''It's spring, interest rates are very good, we're not in a recession, we're creating jobs -- slowly, but creating them -- and home builders are offering better pricing than they were a year ago. And buyers are still saying, 'I need to think about it.' ''
 In Hoboken, Mr. Kaiser expressed his belief that the ''incredible one-shot deals'' being offered in the auction at Velocity would entice buyers. ''We want to move units and get our building sold,'' Mr. Kaiser said, ''and this is our big kickoff.''
 The building's concrete-slab structure -- a first for Hoboken, Mr. Kaiser said -- is designed to produce soundproof apartments but also produced construction delays of almost a year. A number of signed contracts were voided when the condos were not ready in time, Mr. Kaiser said. ''So, this is our fresh start.'' 
 A ''singing auctioneer'' from Accelerated Marketing will conduct the auction at the Hyatt Regency in Jersey City. The apartments will be open for viewing from June 1 until the day of the auction, and a broker may place a bid on behalf of a client if he or she has registered in advance, said Jon Gollinger, the chief executive of the marketing company. 
 Examples of apartments being offered include a 909-square-foot one-bedroom, one-bath condo with a den, which had a previous asking price of $520,000 but will have a minimum auction price of $330,000. A 1,100-square-foot two-bedroom, two-bath unit previously priced at $620,000 will be offered for a minimum price of $395,000. A three-bedroom, three-bath apartment with 1,549 square feet that had been priced at $865,000 will be offered for a minimum of $545,000.
 Mr. Gollinger, who conducted numerous auctions in Manhattan during the housing bust of the early 1990s and recently oversaw the one-day sale of $26 million worth of condos at the Folio building in Boston, said auctioning off brand-new units in a building where sales are just beginning was a first for him.
 The Northeast, he added, is starting to see a return of ''closeout'' auctions, in which the remaining units in multifamily complexes are put up for bid because sales have slowed.
 For example, American Properties Realty is holding a closeout auction of 38 condos at the Madison in Ewing, N.J., on June 3 at the Westin Hotel in Princeton. The two-bedroom, two-bath condos were previously priced at $275,000.
 ''It's a different situation in Hoboken,'' Mr. Gollinger said. ''The buyers are there. We're just going to call them out.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: UP FOR BIDS -- The Velocity, above, a new condo complex in Hoboken, will be auctioning 40 units at low base prices. Remaining units at the Madison, in Ewing, are also to be auctioned off. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); COUNTIES (75%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



546 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Fall in a Week of Cloudy Economic News

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
After weeks of gains, the broad stock market gave up ground last week, while trading volumes declined in advance of the Memorial Day weekend. 
 Economic reports were equivocal or outright contradictory. For example, data provided Friday by the National Association of Realtors on sales of previously owned homes showed an unexpectedly sharp decline in April, while a government report a day earlier showed that sales of new homes had surged, perhaps because developers had cut prices to spur demand.
Is the housing slump deepening or easing? Last week's data provided no clear answers.
 Amazon.com gained 8.3 percent, among the biggest weekly gains in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. A Citigroup analyst raised his price target for the stock. 
 For the week, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 7.02 points, or 0.05 percent, to close at 1,515.73. The Dow Jones industrial index dropped 49.25 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at 13,507.28. The Nasdaq composite index declined 1.26 points, or 0.05 percent, to close at 2,557.19. 
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.86 percent from 4.80 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS'' Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable. Amazon.com NNM: AMZN Shares of the online retail company rose after it announced that it had bought the audiobook publisher Brilliance Audio. Amazon said the purchase would allow it to offer more audiobooks. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $68.55 WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.29% EST. '07 P/E: 66.30 UAL Corporation NNM: UAUA The parent company of United Airlines said it would decrease seating capacity on certain domestic routes and shift service to some international routes. Analysts said the move would help the airline's bottom line. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $38.12 WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.54% EST. '07 P/E: 14.04 Alltel NYSE: AT The wireless phone company ended months of speculation about its future and agreed to be sold to a group of private equity firms for $27.5 billion, the largest buyout in the telecommunications industry. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $68.60 WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.20% EST. '07 P/E: 24.33 MGM Mirage NYSE: MGM The casino giant said it would hire advisers to study an offer by Kirk Kerkorian's Tracinda Corporation to buy two of its properties. Analysts said the final price could exceed $12 billion. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $76.76 WEEK'S CHANGE: +22.23% EST. '07 P/E: 34.07 Staples NNM: SPLS The office supplies retailer reported first-quarter sales that fell short of analysts' estimates. The company said that it was taking a cautious approach regarding expectations for the rest of the year. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $24.40 WEEK'S CHANGE: -4.50% EST. '07 P/E: 16.52 Monster Worldwide NNM: MNST A Goldman Sachs analyst wrote in a note to clients that the job-search Web site is unlikely to be sold, now that the company's founder and former chief executive has sold a million of its shares. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $46.63 WEEK'S CHANGE: -6.89% EST. '07 P/E: 30.70 Coca-Cola NYSE: KO The beverage maker said it would buy Glaceau, the maker of Vitaminwater, for $4.1 billion. In the United States, sales of noncarbonated beverages have been growing much faster than Coke's soda line. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: 51.89 WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.41% EST. '07 P/E: 20.01 Ross Stores NNM: ROST The company said its first-quarter profit rose on strong sales of home products and dresses, but the company gave a second-quarter outlook that was below analysts' estimates. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $32.26 WEEK'S CHANGE: -6.55% EST. '07 P/E: 16.78 (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BOND MARKETS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



547 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: The Big Picture In African Colleges

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 The rapidly deteriorating -- even chaotic -- conditions illustrated in ''Africa's Storied Colleges, Jammed and Crumbling'' (front page, May 20) are one legacy of an international development agenda that continues to relegate higher education in Africa to second-class status. 
 To be certain, most African societies are badly in need of increased literacy and training in basic skills. But donors must not fall prey to false choices between investing in grade schools and supporting higher education. To do so would be like building a ladder only halfway to its destination. 
 Africans themselves are determined to break out of the cycle of poverty and instability. For them, developing better universities is an important route toward deepening democratization, reforming public policy and building civil society. 
 Only when Africa has entrepreneurs, scholars, scientists, educators and public officials who can grapple with its problems will the continent be securely on the road to lasting progress.
 Vibrant universities engaged in innovative and often daring reform, like those supported by a partnership comprising Carnegie Corporation, the Ford, Hewlett, Kresge, MacArthur, Mellon and Rockefeller foundations, are helping to produce this new generation of leaders. Vartan Gregorian President Carnegie Corporation of New York New York, May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE WAVE ENERGY LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CARNEGIE CORPORATION OF NEW YORK (73%)

TICKER: CWE (ASX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



548 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Nissan Altima; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: The Pace Picks Up As Act 4 Begins

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA, Calif. 

 BODY:
BACK in 2001, Nissan badly needed a hit to revive its floundering business in North America, and the Altima delivered. The third-generation Altima, transformed from a dowdy, unloved compact into a sleek midsize sedan with sporty handling, brought younger customers to Nissan showrooms and gave the carmaker a serious competitor to the mighty Toyota Camry and Honda Accord.
 Nissan's recent woes, a dip in sales and profits, is hardly the sort of crisis that confronted the company six years ago. But Nissan is again turning to the Altima to refresh its image. While the fourth-generation car isn't as big a leap as the third, this redesigned 2007 model gives Nissan a bit of needed sizzle in the crowded market for midsize, midprice front-wheel-drive sedans.
The new Altima sedan is 2.5 inches shorter than last year's model and it bulges a bit in the fenders, giving the car a more muscular appearance. The almost austere lines of the 2006 model have given way to elegant curves and folds in the sheet metal, along with high-tech-style taillamps and headlight styling that borrows from the Maxima and 350Z. 
 But the passenger compartment is still roomy -- indeed, rear legroom has been increased by a few inches. By the same token, the 15.3-cubic-foot trunk is still generously proportioned by the standards of midsize sedans, and the sedan is almost as versatile as a hatchback when its rear seat (split 60-40) is folded down. 
 The model lineup retains the same nomenclature -- and more important, the same engines, which are much more than satisfactory. The base 2.5 model, with a 2.5-liter in-line 4 that puts out 175 horsepower and up to 180 pound-feet of torque, comes without air-conditioning or automatic transmission. At $18,575, it is in the lineup as a price leader.
 The next step up is the value leader, the 2.5S with the same engine and a sticker of $20,425. It comes with disk brakes, halogen headlights, a six-speaker stereo, power windows and locks, air-conditioning and six air bags. It even has an ''intelligent key'' that needs only to be near the car to unlock the doors and enable the starter.
 But the great majority of Altimas delivered will come with some of the many available options. First on the list is a continuously variable transmission, or C.V.T., the only automatic available on Altimas ($500). Antilock brakes ($300), a rear spoiler ($360), an electrochromatic self-dimming rearview mirror ($280) and fog lamps ($310) can also be had a la carte. 
 But most options for the 2.5S are delivered in bundles. To get the satellite radio you must buy the premium Bose sound system ($1,200). Opting for a navigation system along with the Bose means buying a rearview camera and a Bluetooth phone system ($3,200). To get leather, you must buy a power driver's seat, power sunroof, alloy wheels, heated front seats, automatic dual-zone air-conditioning ($3,850). So an Altima 2.5S configured just so can get expensive, fast.
 The Altima's other trim lines are built around Nissan's mainstay VQ35 engine, a 3.5-liter aluminum-block V-6 that also powers the Maxima sedan, Quest minivan, Murano crossover and 350Z sports car along with the Infiniti G35 and M35. The Altima's version of the engine yields 270 horsepower and 258 pound-feet of torque. 
 The Altima 3.5SE, with a power driver's seat, C.V.T., 17-inch alloy wheels, antilock brakes, fog lights and a better-looking interior than the one in base 4-cylinder cars, costs $25,125. The plusher 3.5SL ($29,015) comes with all the expected goodies: leather, sunroof, automatic climate control, premium sound, xenon headlamps. Those who truly aspire to luxury can spend $2,000 more on a navigation unit, rearview camera and satellite radio (with perhaps the industry's most maddening satellite radio interface).
 I drove the 2.5S, 3.5SL and the first-ever Altima Hybrid on the hilly open roads around Santa Barbara, as well as on the mean freeways of Los Angeles, and I was impressed by what a good car Nissan's midsize sedan has become. Start with the 2.5S, which Nissan expects to constitute more than half of Altima sales.
 The interior, which in previous incarnations was dulled by acres of economy-grade plastic, is still unlikely to be confused with the cabin of an Audi or a Lexus, but it is now pleasant and airy. The gauges and controls are nicely positioned and the buttons are big. The front seats, built for well-fed Americans, are comfortable, if less supportive than I would have liked on twisty roads. 
 The rear seat, usually an afterthought in midprice sedans, is first-rate.
 (One glitch has recently surfaced: if the remote keyfob comes in contact with a cellphone, under some circumstances the fob's coding is wiped out and it becomes useless. Nissan is working on a fix.)
 The real payoff to the redesign comes in the driving experience. A stiffer body and reworked suspension make the Altima a pleasure on curvy roads. In its class, only the shorter-wheelbase Mazda 6 is more fun to drive. And the new Altima 2.5S is considerably quieter than the old one: the engine barely purrs at cruising speed. In fact, the in-line 4 could be mistaken for a V-6 until you floor the accelerator and the valves begin to clatter.
 What most distinguishes the Altima, though, is the C.V.T. One way manufacturers have improved the smoothness and efficiency of automatics is by increasing the gear steps (to five, six or seven); the Lexus LS 460 has eight. The C.V.T., in contrast, uses a system of belts to change gear ratios continuously from very low to very high.
 This is hardly the first such transmission on a passenger car, but it is surely the best. Larry Dominique, vice president for product planning and strategy at Nissan North America, noted that previous C.V.T.'s were smooth but had a rubber-band feel because the engine speed seemed unrelated to throttle pressure.
 The far more sophisticated programming in Nissan's new version delivers a more natural experience. Downshifts are almost instantaneous yet perfectly smooth, and Mr. Dominque says mileage is as much as 10 percent higher. Indeed, this C.V.T. is so clever that in auto-manual mode it simulates six discrete gears quite well, giving hands-on drivers intuitive, responsive control.
 With an extra 95 horsepower and 78 pound-feet of torque available, the Altima 3.5SE is more powerful and even quieter than the 2.5S, as well as more luxurious. According to Car and Driver magazine, the Altima accelerates from 0 to 60 in just 5.9 seconds with a manual transmission -- quite zippy for a car in this class. From my own experience passing trucks on hilly roads, I can testify that the C.V.T. delivers torque when you need it.
 The modest downside to all that power is a bit of torque steer -- a distressing, though generally harmless, tendency of powerful front-drive cars to hop in your hands at full throttle. The bigger engine also adds almost 200 pounds to the weight, which slightly degrades cornering.
 Not surprisingly, more power also means lower mileage: I managed about 23 m.p.g. in mixed city-highway driving, about 3 m.p.g. less than with the Altima 2.5S.
 The Altima may lack the reputation for bulletproof reliability of the Toyota Camry and Honda Accord. It may not handle quite as well as the Mazda 6 and it is certainly more expensive than comparably equipped Hyundai Sonatas, Saturn Auras or Ford Fusions. 
 But the C.V.T. and the muscular V-6 make the Altima a bit more exciting and versatile than the competition -- at least until an all-new Accord comes out this summer. And, for my money, the Altima's snazzy new shape gives it an edge in styling. Nissan, it seems, has gone back to the old well and found a new supply of driving elixir. INSIDE TRACK: An honors graduate from finishing school. Another Hybrid in the Midsize Herd 
 LATE to the business of gasoline-electric hybrids and lacking its own technology to match Toyota and Honda, Nissan is following an interesting catch-up strategy. The company licensed Toyota's industry-leading Hybrid Synergy Drive and grafted it whole to an Altima. 
 The resulting Altima Hybrid is powered by a somewhat less powerful version of the standard Nissan 2.5-liter 4-cylinder engine, and like the Camry Hybrid uses braking regeneration to charge nickel-metal-hydride batteries that run a 40-horsepower supplementary electric motor.
 The gas mileage of the Altima Hybrid is comparable to the Camry Hybrid -- 35 m.p.g. in the city and 33 on the highway vs. 33/34 for the Toyota -- but it is less powerful than the Accord, which uses a V-6. 
 The Altima Hybrid has two advantages: it drives better than the Camry, and it comes with a $2,350 federal tax credit that may make it a better value than the Honda or the Toyota. 
 In addition, the Altima's handling, though not quite as good as the Altima 2.5S's because of the heavy load of batteries, is still better than that of the sedate Camry. And while both cars use continuously variable transmissions, the Altima's C.V.T. feels better than the Camry's, which can remind you of a golf cart.
 All three hybrids are more or less comparably priced. The base Altima Hybrid lists for $25,025 with the C.V.T., antilock brakes and electronic stability control. But Altima buyers get more cash back from Uncle Sam because the full tax credit applies only to the first 60,000 cars sold; Toyota passed that mark in 2006. Honda is still under its quota, but the lower-m.p.g. Accord Hybrid qualifies for only a $1,300 credit.
 Perhaps the more interesting question is whether the Altima hybrid is worth its premium over the gasoline-only 2.5S. If you factor in the tax credit, the difference is less than $2,000. Assuming the hybrid averages a realistic 34 m.p.g. and the 2.5S manages 26 m.p.g., the hybrid will burn about 900 fewer gallons in 100,000 miles of driving. The hybrid's trunk is smaller, but that seems a reasonable trade-off, especially if you want to cast a green vote. PETER PASSELL
 BOTTOM LINE The latest makeover gave the Camry some much-needed personality, though not a lot of charisma. (pg. 18) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: UPGRADE Instead of cheap plastic, there is now an airy, pleasant feel in Altima's cabin. (pg. 18)
(pg. 1) Chart/Photos: ''Midsize Matchups: How Some of the Newest Family Sedans Compare '' 2008 Dodge Avenger BASE PRICE $18,895 (4-cylinder) LAST MAJOR REDESIGN New for 2008. IT'S A FACT Options include a cup holder that heats and cools drinks. NOTABLE Its appealing Charger-esque styling notwithstanding, the new Avenger is a bit rough around the edges in this class. BOTTOM LINE Inside, some cost-cutting is obvious
 under the hood, powertrain choices lack rivals' refinement. But it's a giant improvement over the discontinued Stratus. 2007 Ford Fusion BASE PRICE $17,430 (4-cylinder) LAST MAJOR REDESIGN New for 2006. IT'S A FACT Like several other vehicles from Ford Motor divisions, the Fusion rides on a platform derived from the highly regarded Mazda 6. NOTABLE Depending on equipment, can cost $5,000 less than Camry. THE BOTTOM LINE The clean but modern Fusion hits a styling sweet spot that has eluded the designers of midsize Ford sedans since, well, the last century. 2007 Kia Optima BASE PRICE $16,955 (4-cylinder) LAST MAJOR REDESIGN All new for 2006 1/2. Really. IT'S A FACT Comparably equipped, yet less expensive, than the similar Hyundai Sonata. NOTABLE Midway through the last model year, Kia gave the Optima a new identity with sleeker styling, faster and more economical engines, better handling and a nicer interior. BOTTOM LINE Come-hither prices make up for minor shortcomings. 2007 Nissan Altima BASE PRICE $20,415 (4-cylinder) LAST MAJOR REDESIGN New this year. IT'S A FACT With 270 horses, the optional V-6 is the class powerhouse. NOTABLE The Altima is Nissan's best seller, and a strong redesign should add to its success. BOTTOM LINE Great engines, sweet handling and an appealing design make this an alluring choice. The Altima may be best in class (at least until Honda delivers a new Accord later this year). 2007 Saturn Aura BASE PRICE $20,995 (V-6) LAST MAJOR REDESIGN New this year. IT'S A FACT The Aura is an Opel Vectra in disguise. NOTABLE A jury of auto writers picked the stylish Aura as 2007 North American Car of the Year. BOTTOM LINE Some have questioned G.M.'s decision to rebadge European Opel models as Saturns in this country, but in the case of the well-built Aura, the rose smells as sweet by any name. 2007 Toyota Camry BASE PRICE $20,140 (4-cylinder) LAST MAJOR REDESIGN 2007 model. IT'S A FACT The Camry's base 4-cylinder engine is the wimpiest in the class. NOTABLE It may be bland, but it's a perennial best seller because of its legenary reliability and strong resale value.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (77%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (60%)

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (58%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



549 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 5173 words

HEADLINE: The Unintended Consequences of Hyperhydration

BYLINE: By Jon Mooallem. 
Jon Mooallem, a contributing writer, last wrote for the magazine about Kink.com, an online pornography company.

 BODY:
It's easy to find, in the mightily expanding iconography of American waste, the monumental (a ziggurat of flattened cars), the sinister (ocher sludge foaming on a riverbank) and the sublime (a plastic bag fluttering in a Japanese maple). The empty bottle and crushed aluminum can are none of these. They are almost too commonplace to notice, too dreary to evoke anything at all. Foundered on a roadside or slumped in a bag of spent Chinese takeout, the can without its Mountain Dew and the bottle without its Bud are unremarkable things. They're just trash: something we once wanted and now can't be bothered with. 
Eleven states -- California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, New York, Oregon and Vermont -- give this valueless stuff a value, however. Typically we pay a nickel when purchasing a container and get the nickel back if we return the container for recycling. It's a deposit, a contract binding us to our garbage. Though these days, that nickel may elicit only the faintest twinge of regret as we toss the empty into the trash and rejoin our busy lives. More than three decades since it was first legislated, the transaction that the so-called bottle bill sets in motion -- pay a nickel, recoup a nickel -- is the same as ever. The world surrounding it, though, is almost unrecognizable.
 Oregon passed the country's first deposit law in 1971, and as one native Oregonian told me, ''We don't have too many firsts.'' So in February in Salem, hearings to dust off and modernize the law began with a certain romantic pride. Oregon's speaker of the house called the bottle bill ''an Oregon institution'' and described tacking toward floating bottles and scooping them out of the Columbia River while learning to sail with his father. The Senate president credited the bottle bill with making him want to become a legislator. ''I just think it's part of being an Oregonian, that you return your bottles and cans,'' he said. 
 Representative Vicki Berger, a Republican from Salem, introduced herself as ''the only living witness to the actual birth of the Oregon bottle bill.'' Berger, who is largely spearheading the reforms, is the daughter of a fabled citizen-activist, Richard Chambers, who proposed the first bill, a man subsequently described to me as ''a voice in the wilderness'' and ''totally prophetic.'' Berger called the law ''part of our mythology.'' For others it was a ''shining beacon'' and ''the one bill more than any others that Oregonians identify with.'' 
 Never, it seemed, had such a ceremony been made over trash. Except that this same thing has been going on, almost perennially, in state legislatures across the country for decades. Bills to update existing laws or pass one in a non-bottle-bill state typically flail around in committee until, clobbered by the powerful grocery and beverage industry lobbies or skipped over for sexier environmental issues, they disappear. This year, however, the Oregon campaign, along with similar ones in New York and Connecticut, have gained greater traction.
 Bottle bills are still surprisingly good at inspiring recycling and reducing litter. But, though they are idiosyncratic in every state, the vast majority of the laws share one colossal, unanticipated flaw: they place a deposit on beer and carbonated beverages only. The bottle bill's scope, and to some extent the very vision of a more waste-conscious world that first motivated it, has been swiftly trivialized by the ubiquity of bottled water. This year, Americans will drink more than 30 billion single-serving bottles of water. Oregonians will throw out about 170 million empty ones. Those same bottles, filled with something fizzy, would carry nickel deposits. 
 ''That was the stupidest thing we ever did,'' says a veteran of the original Oregon campaign. The laws were written in a different era, a less health-obsessed one, when drinking out of a bottle or can meant drinking beer or soda. If bottled water, teas, juices and energy drinks existed at all, they were quaintly called ''new-age beverages.'' (''In the late '70s,'' one bottled-water executive urged me to keep in mind, ''no one was putting on little shorts and running in the streets.'') Bottled water, Berger says, ''is what's truly different from 1971,'' which is why she and others are battling to expand their bottle bills to include it. 
 From there, proposals often seek to fix a mess of other unanticipated dysfunctions and complaints. For starters, no state had the foresight to require its nickel deposit be adjusted for inflation. That nickel is now worth about a penny in 1971 terms, and redemption rates have depressed -- except in Michigan, the only state with a dime deposit, where the rate remains 97 percent. Other states have tried to move to a dime. What's more, in most states, if we toss the can, or even if we dutifully put it in our curbside recycling, our nickel quietly remains with the beverage-distributing company to which we first paid it. This year, the Bigger Better Bottle Bill campaign in New York is making its sixth attempt to redirect those unclaimed deposits -- estimated at $100 million each year -- into a state environmental fund. ''It's the people's nickel,'' says Judith Enck, Governor Spitzer's deputy secretary for the environment.
 Opposing such changes are disgruntled bottlers, distributors and grocers. Americans buy about 215 billion beverage containers every year, more than quadruple those bought in 1971. Steadily, these industries have been forced to sacrifice more space, time and money to run shadow businesses that are, as if out of a surrealist novel, haunting reversals of their regular businesses: trucks shuttle from store to store picking up empties; clerks hand customers money for grimy containers of air. Including bottled water would only inundate them further. 
 By now the players on both sides, in each state, all know one another. They issue reports. They recite dueling statistics. But the debate, wherever it happens to flare up in a given year, is essentially a philosophical one. While recycling advocates rail against society's wastefulness as a solemn problem, so much of that society relies on the freedom to throw things out as a solution to problems. As naive as it looks, the bottle bill forces the very contemporary environmental question of whether those who sell a product, not to mention those who use it, should be accountable for its mess -- and just how accountable, and at what cost. By Day 3 in Salem, one dumbstruck grocer, pressed after his testimony, finally blurted out: ''Are we responsible for all the containers and all the garbage we sell?'' He meant it as a rhetorical question. But it's precisely the question that, for 36 years, everyone has been getting together to hash out. The People's Lobby Against Nonreturnables
 Opponents often denigrate the bottle bill as an old antilitter law, ill equipped to do the 21st-century job of recycling. But the ethos behind it was more forward-thinking than is commonly remembered.
 Richard Chambers sold plywood production equipment. Before dying of cancer in 1974, he climbed every peak in Oregon and to the highest point in every state. On a Sunday morning in 1968, returning from a walk on the beach near his house in Pacific City, Chambers saw an article in the newspaper that his teenage daughter was reading over breakfast. It described a proposed deposit system in British Columbia. ''And he says: 'That's it. That's the answer,' '' his daughter, Vicki Berger, told me recently. Immediately, Chambers called a state representative, a young black-sheep Republican named Paul Hanneman. The call woke up Hanneman. Soon the two men were standing near the town's only intersection, grimacing at the mess of broken glass Chambers spotted there on his walk: a typical Saturday night's detritus. 
 The beverage industry was changing, as were its consumers' expectations. For decades, producing glass bottles was so costly that bottlers operated their own deposit systems to ensure they got them back. Beer usually came in glass ''stubbies,'' each with a deposit of a few cents. A stubby could be returned to any local bottler, regardless of its brand. There it was sterilized, scrubbed clean of its label and refilled. A single container could be repurposed as many as 30 times. But by the '60s, aluminum cans were ubiquitous, and glass bottles were shedding their deposits. The convenience of these new ''one way,'' or disposable, containers was marketed enthusiastically. By 1970, nearly 40 percent of America's packaged soda and 75 percent of its packaged beer came in one-ways. 
 ''We could see the returnables disappearing,'' Paul Hanneman, now 70 and retired, told me in the house near Pacific City where he has lived since childhood. The morning I visited, he had unearthed 300 copies of letters Chambers sent, often while overseas for business, to strum up support for the bottle bill. Chambers collected hotel stationery, hoping letterhead from Zaire would make his cause look important.
 Hanneman first introduced the bottle bill in 1969. The idea -- to put an artificial value on what everyone increasingly saw as worthless -- was swiftly crushed. ''The industry people came down on us like crazy,'' he said. As convenient as one-ways were for consumers, they also alleviated great hassle and expense for grocers and bottlers. Those businesses themselves were becoming one-way, less hobbled by having to take back empties. Many bottle-washing lines, where containers were sterilized, were already dismantled. Hanneman was accused of trying to turn back the clock, ordering major corporations to jump through so many impracticable hoops in his one, inconsequential state that ultimately the whole industry might collapse. Businesses and unions, normally enemies, sat together on the same side of the hearing room. On the other side, Hanneman told me, ''you've got Rich Chambers sitting all by himself'': a 6-foot-4, 275-pound man, needlepointing assiduously to calm his nerves. ''He'd get so wound up. He'd say, 'If we don't reverse the trend now, nonreturnables, especially cans, are going to be so numerous we'll never beat these people.' '' 
 In 1971, when Hanneman and Chambers reintroduced the bill, modern environmentalism was just forming in the unfocused afterglow of the first Earth Day a year earlier. It was a moment when discussing humankind's negligent stewardship of the planet and simply picking pieces of litter off its surface were both seen as deeply ecological acts. As an outdoorsman, Chambers loathed litter as a blight on the landscape. But he was also fearful of the broader wastefulness it signaled. He kept compulsive files on the resources needed to manufacture aluminum cans. An ad-hoc group called PLAN, the People's Lobby Against Nonreturnables, studied the energy that a deposit program could conserve. 
 ''My father understood fully about resource management,'' Berger says, but ''he was a salesman first.'' Only by trumpeting the bottle bill as an antilitter measure could Chambers and Hanneman find the support they needed. Fighting litter was straightforward; it felt good. Gov. Tom McCall championed the bill exhaustively, telling the press he would ''put a price on the head'' of every bottle and can. This time, an unlikely coalition staggered in on Chambers's side of the hearing room. ''You had some younger people with longer hair sitting right next to a guy in big overalls from the Linn County Farm Bureau,'' Hanneman said. ''They were from all around the state -- some urban, some rural. They hadn't been to the Capitol before and really didn't know what to do. All they knew was that they ought to go there.'' 
 Opposition intensified. Before one hearing, a small cavalcade of private jets landed at the Salem airport, carrying various industry representatives from the East Coast. Jerry Powell, who volunteered for Chambers as a graduate student and now edits the trade magazine Resource Recycling, says the men came off as bullies and outsiders. For starters, ''they called it 'Oregoan,' '' Powell says, still irritated. Local businesses meanwhile stepped up with crucial support, particularly five northwest breweries that hoped the bill might handicap the Anheuser-Buschs of the world, however slightly. (Freed from the cost of shipping bottles in two directions, national companies were now outcompeting local ones.) The bottle bill ultimately passed, Powell argues, because of ''locals talking to locals.'' ''Incidentally,'' he adds, ''all five of those breweries are out of business now.'' 
 Eric A. Goldstein of the Natural Resources Defense Council describes the first bottle bills emerging at a time when nationalizing markets were making goods more affordable and convenient, but also further detaching consumers from their environmental costs. The one-way soda can is only convenient because we can throw it out when we're finished and don't have to worry where it goes. So is the Bic razor, the paper towel, the disposable camera and the Swiffer mop head. ''As significant as the bottle-bill legislation is,'' Goldstein says, ''the growing movement toward a throwaway society that started in the '60s and '70s is an even larger trend.'' 
 Berger told me: ''My father envisioned a world where we were overburdened with trash. He wasn't aiming for recycling in the sense we know it, but recycling in the sense he knew it, which was that the bottle would go back to the bottling plant and get refilled.'' (Chambers put a sticker over the toilet in the family's beach cabin that read: ''Rejoice! You're Refillable!'') ''I think his real purpose was to conserve that system'' -- to preserve the tidy, closed loop the industry was allowing to diffuse. ''And in that sense,'' Berger said, ''the bottle bill was a failure.'' 
 Today a great many of Oregon's returned glass bottles are trucked to a plant near the Portland airport. There, they accumulate in towering piles. Then they are melted down and made into new bottles. The Old Jalopy
 Despite the elaborate overhauls first discussed, the updated bottle bill that passed out of the Oregon senate and into the House last month was essentially what Berger called the ''just add water'' option. It would place a 5-cent deposit on bottled water.
 The change is far more complicated and politically ambitious than it sounds, given that grocers, stuck with the bottle bill's grunt work, have traditionally been opposed to any expansion. Last year, The Oregonian reported that, before any changes were even introduced, Joe Gilliam, president of the Northwest Grocery Association, issued this warning to a meeting of stakeholders: ''We can sit back and kill bottle bills. We've got the money to do it. We've got the political know-how to do it.'' 
 Not long ago, Gilliam and I visited a store in northeast Portland together. It was a Fred Meyer, a chain of large-scale retailers. We met at the bottle house, a cement structure resembling a bus terminal near the edge of the parking lot. There, people fed empties into ''reverse vending machines,'' which scanned the barcodes and issued redemptions. An employee stood by to switch out the bins and hand-count any containers mistakenly rejected. The store fills three trucks with empties every week. Adding water, Gilliam speculated, would at least double that volume. That means twice as many machines in a bottle house twice as big. And if that happens, he said, pacing into the lot with his arms extended, you run into compliance problems with parking, access to public transportation and so on. Some grocers also warn that funneling garbage into grocery stores has health risks. ''The bottle bill is basically maxed out on its capacity,'' Gilliam said. ''They're going to have to do something far more innovative to make it work at this point.'' 
 Meanwhile, as is the case in most states, Oregon's beverage distributors -- who via the grocers, collect and refund the deposits -- claim they are being defrauded. They are refunding nickels for out-of-state containers on which they never collected a deposit in the first place. In Portland, bottles and cans flood in from the nearby suburbs in Washington, a state with no bottle bill. (''Seinfeld'' fans will remember Kramer driving a mail truck full of empties to the 10-cent Promised Land of Michigan.) A cooperative of Oregon distributors says this fraud almost entirely cancels out, and in some years exceeds, the windfall of unclaimed deposits it gets to keep. 
 Bottled-water companies claim that, because water is not distributed in strict territories like soda and beer, keeping track of their nickels will be even more difficult. In Maine, one of two states so far to expand its law to include bottled water, Nestle Waters North America says it handed back $815,000 more in nickels than it collected last year. (Globally, Nestle owns 72 different brands of water, including Poland Spring, Deer Park and Arrowhead.) Brian Flaherty, a Nestle spokesman who has testified in Connecticut and Oregon, told me those states are trying to drag the water business into an already dysfunctional system. They're trying to ''update the old jalopy,'' Flaherty said.
 The grocery and beverage industries largely advocate relying on curbside recycling instead -- the programs by which homeowners set out bins at the ends of their driveways for collection. They argue that running a deposit program -- a separate system just for beverage containers -- is redundant. It may even be counterproductive. In Connecticut, a recycling contractor warns that placing a deposit on noncarbonated beverages, and thus inspiring more people to recycle those containers at stores, would divert at least $900,000 of recyclable material from the curbside bins. Such losses of revenue can threaten the financial viability of the curbside programs altogether. 
 The rise of municipal curbside recycling is yet another thing the bottle bill's authors couldn't have predicted. Bottle-bill proponents note that nearly half of Americans don't have access to curbside recycling and maintain that it does a poor job of capturing containers commonly consumed away from home, like bottled water. But curbside still has a way of complicating their arguments, or at least of exposing just how stubbornly idealistic their vision actually is. If the goal is to conserve resources, it seems unfair that someone who conscientiously recycles his bottles and cans at the curb rather than at the grocery store loses his nickels regardless. I told this to Betty McLaughlin of the Container Recycling Institute, a tiny nonprofit that serves as a nerve center for bottle-bill advocates. McLaughlin disagreed, categorically. People drive to the grocery store regularly anyway, she said. If they took their empties with them, and if states put deposits on even more products, the volume of curbside material would drop, and the haulers' trucks could make fewer trips. That would result in a net -- though small, it seems -- reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions. 
 More important, McLaughlin said, curbside is financed by municipalities; the bottle bill is designed to hold industry accountable for the disposal of its products. This accountability has practical, not just philosophical, benefits: forcing companies to take back their empties has ensured they make their containers recyclable and build markets for the scrap. (It is because of the bottle bill that fleece jackets, mattresses and carpeting are now made from recycled plastic bottles; recycled bottles have become one of the most valuable scrap materials.) Nevertheless, defenses of the bottle bill often boil down to an insistence that the essential rightness of its principle, the idea of producer responsibility, simply outweighs its many other costs and inconveniences -- particularly since the bulk of those costs and inconveniences are borne by the industry. That's only just. 
 Each side of the debate has its own emphatic standards of fairness and efficiency, and the distance between them was evident earlier this month, when, with an expansion seeming almost inevitable in Oregon, Michael Read of the WinCo Foods grocery chain spoke at a second round of hearings, sounding defeated. Read didn't bother preparing testimony, he said, because ''all of the cogent arguments where we have good data . . . have unfortunately been largely ignored. No one seems to care about the health issues, sanitation issues, space issues, handling issues, efficiency issues, cost issues.'' I asked Paul Hanneman how he and Chambers responded to similar objections in 1971, the contentions that the bottle bill would demand calamitous changes to a complex industry. ''We said, 'You figure it out,' '' Hanneman told me; the state was done paying for those containers as garbage or litter. 
 In her office one morning, Vicki Berger seemed to share this principled insensitivity. When it comes to bottled water, she said, ''when are we going to say enough is enough of this product?'' (Berger had previously explained her position on water this way: ''The product is zilch! You're buying a friggin' container!'') Now she handed me a bottle from a little collection she kept. The brand was called Oregon Rain; its slogan, ''Virgin Water Harvested From Oregon Skies.'' ''This is my poster child,'' she said. ''It's laughable.'' Then to prove this, Berger laughed. Water 
 Singling out bottled water is unfair. All successful products cater to our values, and it may be that, in water, we see our unflattering reflection most clearly. Steve Emery, president of the Oregon-based bottled-water company Earth20, told me, ''It's funny that people think if you add a lot of sugar to the water, it's better than just providing water.''
 Bottled water is invaluable for those without reliably safe drinking water or during disaster relief. But the product thrived only after Americans were accustomed to, even reliant on, buying single servings of soda while on the go -- in the convenience stores and little delis the industry calls ''immediate consumption channels.'' This year, Americans will drink more than nine billion gallons of bottled water, nearly all of it from polyethylene terephthalate, or PET, plastic bottles. Water, together with other nonfizzy drinks, accounted for 90 percent of the growth of the entire beverage industry between 2002 and 2005. By the end of the decade, they are expected to outsell soda. 
 Despite the chicness of certain brands, the market is dominated by hundreds of more workaday waters. Brands like Crystal Geyser, Kirkland and Arrowhead function as tap water for a country that spends most of its time away from the tap. While even the most pedestrian waters invoke the grandeur of their source -- a secluded spring, a glacial brook -- Gary Hemphill of the Beverage Marketing Corporation says, ''As far as consumers go, I don't sense that they really care one way or the other.'' We just want water. ''If you could put your kitchen sink on your back and carry it around with you, the bottled-water industry might not be as big as it is today.''
 Michelle Barry of the market research firm the Hartman Group told me, ''Water is not really critically considered'' -- not even the object itself, it seems. ''We believe bottled water has become less about the physical act of hydration and more about being a companion to people,'' she said. ''They like to walk around with it and hold it.'' Increasingly, the typical consumer sips out of a bottle of water ''to mark time.'' ''It's like their bangie,'' Barry added, meaning a security blanket. Or rather, each bottle of water is one in a readily available cast of interchangeable security blankets that we can capriciously acquire and toss throughout the day. 
 Several industry people told me that water's most exciting growth is now in sales of large multipacks or flats of single-serving bottles -- stockpiles that we keep in our pantries or garages and grab a few bottles from on our way out the door. The obvious question then is, why not fill up a reusable bottle from the tap and take that with us. ''If you're on the go, and you're buying something to consume on the go,'' Barry told me, ''that assumes you don't have the time for preparation before you go. You need that ultimate convenience.'' It follows that you don't have time to shepherd around that bottle once it is empty either.
 Americans will throw out more than two million tons of PET bottles this year. Even when recycled, it is hard to turn scrap PET into new bottles. More virgin material is always necessary. PET is a petroleum product; it comes from oil. The Container Recycling Institute estimates that 18 million barrels of crude-oil equivalent were needed to replace the bottles we chucked in 2005, bottles that were likely shipped long distances to begin with --from Maine or Calistoga or Fiji. 
 Whether more states manage to put deposits on bottled water or not, we have become real-life grotesques of the disconnected, profligate consumer the bottle bill saw coming and, waving a roll of nickels, tried to fend off. I easily bought more than a dozen bottles of water while working on this article. Redemption
 Three weeks ago, the Northwest Grocery Association proposed its own startling modernization of the Oregon bottle bill. The State Legislature, Joe Gilliam told me, ''hasn't understood or really wanted to understand'' how devastating its just-add-water expansion would be to grocers. Grudgingly resigned to some kind of expansion, Gilliam came to the table at the 11th hour with a more grocer-friendly, radical reinvention of the system: all carbonated and noncarbonated beverages and liquor would carry nickel deposits, and new, state-run redemption centers -- not grocers -- would handle the returns. They'd also collect materials like home electronics. Grocers would help finance the redemption centers and relinquish all unredeemed deposits to a state anti-litter program. 
 A legislative committee promptly ignored this proposal, however, passing the original expansion to the full chamber, where, as of last week, it awaited probable passage. Meanwhile, after rocketing through one house of the State Legislature, Connecticut's expansion was recently killed in committee. (Proponents have promised to resurrect the measure as part of another bill.) New York's ''Bigger Better Bottle Bill'' continued to gain unprecedented momentum, though it still faced some discouraging resistance in one house.
 ''It probably won't go through this year,'' the Rev. Dr. Earl Kooperkamp told me last month. Kooperkamp helped introduce the Bigger Better Bottle Bill campaign six years ago. He is 50 now, with an odd little braid of hair that swishes at the back of his clerical collar. He had invited me to Saint Mary's Episcopal Church in Harlem, to a monthly meeting he holds for ''canners,'' those who scour the city for bottles and cans for a living. The meeting is part support group (he helps those harassed by grocers file complaints) and part long-range planning committee (he envisions canners lobbying for improvements to the law). He is confident that, if the deposit were raised to a dime, more than enough containers would still be abandoned to keep his canners in business. Kooperkamp calls the group the Redeemers.
 It's unclear how big a share of America's recycling the homeless and working poor do. Clearly it is considerable. The Container Recycling Institute reports that an average of 490 beverage containers are recycled per person per year in bottle-bill states. Yet many canners told me that they can easily earn a daily wage of 20 or 30 dollars; each then recycles upward of 600 containers every day. When proponents argue that bottle bills are the best way to capture containers consumed on the go, it's not because a frenzied Dr. Pepper drinker will make a scrupulous detour to return the can, but because, when that can is inevitably thrown out, a scavenger might retrieve it.
 In Manhattan, many canners start at the tip of the island after the first Statue of Liberty ferries have sailed. They hit Wall Street as lunch is ending and wind up in Times Square to pick up after the pretheater stampede. Since canners may not get to a grocery store before closing, Kooperkamp describes the rise of ''mobile redemption,'' middlemen in trucks who buy loads late at night, two for a nickel. Fearing overnight theft, many canners in Portland sleep beside their containers at bottle houses. Though few in Portland find it worth their time to dig through garbage; most work set routes, emptying each neighborhood's curbside bins on its designated recycling night -- a situation that may signal a breakdown of both systems. 
 While we sat in the church foyer waiting for Redeemers, Kooperkamp explained that, in Leviticus, the Bible issues laws about leaving the corners of your fields for the poor to harvest. ''It's saying that something has to be left that somebody else can make use of,'' he said. ''What the Redeemers are doing is gleaning the fields, sustaining their lives in a way that actually ends up making life better for all of us.'' Still, Leviticus had to remind us to leave some for the gleaners. Today enough useful detritus seems to flake off our lives by itself that an entire underground economy traffics in our trash. 
 The bottle bill created an economic incentive for something its authors felt we ought to do for its own sake. It was a mandate to recycle rather than litter but, more broadly, to stay mindful of the tension between convenience and conscientiousness -- to stay tethered to our waste as, more and more, that connection slackened. Talking with Kooperkamp, I realized that canners may be the only ones even remotely living the principle of the bottle bill as Richard Chambers envisioned it, and only then, out of desperation. 
 ''A good number of the Redeemers see that they're doing a real service,'' Kooperkamp said, ''cleaning up after us, taking care of the environment.'' Some come to see picking up a can -- replacing it into the cyclic narrative from which it strayed -- ''as running totally opposite to our egocentric, convenience-driven, disposable culture.'' It can be a deeply connective act. ''I went to seminary,'' Kooperkamp told me. ''I learned all about redemption. Redemption is about taking something that is worthless and giving it value, about taking that worthless thing and changing it into something life-sustaining.'' Jean Rice, a canner in the Bronx, summed it up this way: ''Five years ago, I used to call myself a canner. But now I call myself an ecological engineer.'' 
 After an hour, it was clear that no Redeemers would show. Kooperkamp apologized, reached for his cup of coffee (paper, with a plastic sip-top) and stood up. His whole demeanor said, Ah well, maybe next time. These guys have pressing difficulties in their lives, he said. He understood why they might not be focused on the long-term. 

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Dwight Eschliman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SAILING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALEM, OR, USA (91%) OREGON, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



550 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-17 A Post-Occupation Iraq Behind the debate over troop withdrawal from Iraq is widespread concern about what the country would look like after American troops left. Wide-ranging interviews with Iraqis found a surprising consensus with American commanders' views that a troop withdrawal soon would allow sectarian violence to run wild and might implode the government. 1 American, British and Iraqi forces battled fighters from the Mahdi Army militia in Baghdad and Basra, a day after the militia's leader came out of hiding. 
Also, the deaths of 11 American service members were announced, bringing the total this month to at least 101. 14 Israel Bombs Hamas Facilities Israel bombed a series of Hamas facilities in Gaza, killing at least five Palestinians, and arrested another cabinet minister from Hamas. 16 South Korea's Skyscraper Rush South Korea, in an effort to keep up with its booming neighbors, has become an unexpected player in the worldwide rush to erect ever taller buildings. 3 Ukraine Crisis Defused Ukraine's battling political rivals agreed to hold new parliamentary elections, defusing a political crisis that had escalated with President Viktor A. Yushchenko's decision to order extra Interior Ministry troops to the capital, Kiev. 9 NATIONAL 18-25 Democrats Split on Fox Debate The decision by the three leading Democratic presidential candidates to shun a debate to be broadcast on Fox News has sharpened a wedge between the Congressional Black Caucus, which is co-sponsoring the debate, and liberals who disagree with the network's conservative commentary. 1 Aiding College Diversity Concerned that the barriers to elite institutions are being increasingly drawn along class lines, many top colleges are actively recruiting low-income students and considering economic status when making admissions decisions. 1 Alaska Villages Threatened Global climate change threatens about 180 villages in Alaska, including some that could be washed away within a decade. The towns are sinking as the permafrost beneath them melts, and powerful storms bolstered by changes in sea ice are eroding the shoreline. 1 Company Pulls Lens Solution A contact lens solution manufacturer voluntarily withdrew its product after federal health officials said an investigation had linked it to a rare but potentially blinding eye infection. 18 NEW YORK/REGION 27-30 Rise of the City Homeowner Thanks to a building boom and the availability of low-interest and risky subprime mortgages, one in three New York households now own their dwellings, and the number of homes and apartments occupied by their owners has passed one million for the first time, according to a new analysis of census results. 27 Violence's Stubborn Reign There is no better place to observe the progress and pitfalls of Newark's campaign against crime than the Fifth Precinct, four square miles in the city's southwest corner that remains Newark's most violent area. 1 TODAY ON NYTIMES.COM Six Killers: Stroke The New York Times examines strokes, one of the six leading killers in America. Readers are invited to submit questions to Dr. Walter J. Koroshetz at nytimes.com/health. His answers will also be posted at nytimes.com/health. Chess 30 Weather 22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HAMAS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAUCUSES (72%); POLITICS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); POOR POPULATION (68%); CITY LIFE (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); EROSION (62%); CLIMATE CHANGE (62%); OPHTHALMIC PHARMACEUTICALS (61%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (61%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); CENSUS (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) ALASKA, USA (92%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (93%); ISRAEL (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



551 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: The Dream That Once Was Detroit

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I AM an American, and therefore I love cars. I am an American and, in America, you are what you drive, and here are some memories. 
 This is the only dream I remember from all of high school: Instead of my light blue, miserable 1955 Chevrolet, I had a white 1962 Corvette like the one my pal Calvin Kline (not the designer) had, and Gay Patlen, my high school dream girl, kissed me on the lips (in the dream). You are what you drive. Even in your dreams.
 In 1972, my friend Arthur Best and I went from my boring job as a bureaucrat in Washington down to a small town in Virginia. There, for $1,750, I bought a cherry red, customized, startlingly powerful 1962 Corvette. In an instant, catching rubber as I shifted from third to fourth at 100 miles an hour on Route 95, I was Elvis Presley and Juan Manuel Fangio all at once. You are what you drive. I even took out Gay Patlen in that car.
 Yesterday, driving from Beverly Hills to Rancho Mirage, Calif., I was trying to merge in heavy traffic on Route 10 and a huge truck was bearing down on me, not letting me in. I hit the boost phase on my Cadillac STS-V and flew onto the road, well ahead of that behemoth. Superman. Rocket man. Blasting off. 
 A car is what you aspire to, what you dream of, who you want to be. A car is the bigger, better, badder you.
 Detroit is bleeding. Tiny profits or huge losses at the Big Three. Immense buyouts and cutbacks affecting employees. Bankruptcies at auto parts makers. Toyota passing General Motors on the superhighway of auto sales. Chrysler being given away -- worse than that, Daimler paying to give it away -- to a private equity fund. Knowing a bit about how private equity works, I have the horrible feeling that whatever the United Automobile Workers has faced so far, it's going to become a lot worse when a group of private equity players with no responsibility to public stockholders is sitting across from the union at the negotiating table. 
 The decline of the auto business at the Big Three is tearing the guts out of the upper Midwest. When the workers are laid off or their pay is cut, their doctors suffer, and their retailers and their pharmacists and everyone else.
 Why is it happening? The answer that everyone gives is excessive wages and health and retirement benefits. But is that all of it? American auto workers make barely more than their counterparts in Japan and less than those in Germany. Yes, there are ''legacy costs'' of retirement pay and health care for workers in Detroit. Other countries' workers have pensions, too, although those pensions are more highly socialized than in the United States. But the cost of labor in a car or truck is barely more than a tenth of the price of an average vehicle, according to research done by my alter ego and genius finance-whiz, Phil DeMuth. (The average labor costs of a car or truck are slightly above $2,000, and an average car or truck costs about $24,000. These are rough numbers. If you add in the labor on the parts that go into the car, the number is higher, but it is higher abroad as well.) 
 THE legacy costs may mean a slight premium in the price of a Detroit-made car as compared with a Japanese or German car. But think about it: when was the last time you heard a buyer of a new car say that she bought her last car because it was 5 percent cheaper than another model she was considering? 
 I am sure some economists say that somewhere, but what I hear is that buyers choose a car because it looks better or handles better or seems to be better made or -- in the case of us insecure men -- goes faster. Fit and finish. Reputation for being well-made. Quality of the ''feel'' when you're behind the wheel. Sexy good looks. That's how cars are sold.
 And this is where American cars used to rule the world. The Cars of the Fabulous '50s (there is a book with that name; look at it and be amazed at what Detroit used to make) and the early 1960s were gorgeous, powerful, lush. You had the feeling you were a commodore of the proudest highway fleet in history. Buicks, Pontiacs, Dodges, Oldsmobiles, Chevys, Fords, Mercurys, Lincolns and, above all, Caddys, all looked and felt great. You didn't need a Mercedes. The American product, Detroit iron, was the stuff of which dreams were made.
 ''Ye shall be as gods.'' That's what Detroit told us. ''Ye shall be as gods.'' And Detroit was Parnassus.
 Then it all fell apart. Starting in the late 1960s (except for the Corvette, always the design leader in North America), American cars became shapeless blobs. When the cool sport utility vehicles and pickups and the late-'90s Caddys came along -- reversing a bad spell for the Cadillac nameplate -- there was a slight uptick. But even now, look at the style, feel the feel of the Nissan Altima or the Toyota Camry (often designed and made in America) compared with most of the Big Three's offerings, and the comparison is pathetic.
 (I vividly recall that when I bought a 1997 Cadillac STS, I noticed that the chrome line along the side was uneven. The salesman said blithely, ''Detroit isn't that good on fit and finish.'')
 In other words, the problem is not the U.A.W. The problem is not so much legacy costs. The problem is that management stopped making cars that Americans wanted to buy and drive. The Japanese and German models, even if made in Kentucky, just look, drive and feel better, offer more of a thrill and are more reliable than what Ford and G.M. and Chrysler generally turn out. But look what happens when Detroit offers a model that consumers want, like the Chrysler 300C or the wholly redesigned Cadillac STS-V. The dealers can barely keep them in stock. They blow out the dealers' doors.
 How can Detroit revive? Find the people who make the Corvette. Find the people who created the 300C and the Cadillac Escalade and have them design new cars. Hire the quality-control people from Toyota and Nissan and have them supervise the plants around Detroit, just the way the Japanese hired W. Edwards Deming to teach them American quality control after World War II.
 It's not the workers' fault, even though they will be blamed for it because they are the punching bag at this point. It's management's fault. Time to put the bean counters out to pasture and to install people who will design and make cars that dreams are made of. It's not too late. If Cadillac can do it, everyone can do it. Yes, Detroit, some of us still have faith in you. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: In its heyday, Detroit ran on pure inspiration, turning out cars like the 1962 Corvette. (Photo by General Motors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (86%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); HEALTH CARE (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); RETAILERS (63%); PHARMACISTS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (50%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%)

COMPANY: YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT INC (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (90%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



552 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 6; New Jersey Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Seton Hall Basketball Finds a Home in Newark

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLL

 BODY:
After playing home games at Continental Airlines Arena in the Meadowlands for 26 seasons, the men's basketball team at Seton Hall University will begin playing at the new Prudential Center in Newark this fall, officials announced last week. 
 The 18,500-seat Prudential Center, set to open in October, will also be the home of the New Jersey Devils hockey team. The $370 million Prudential Center, nicknamed the Rock, is part of a plan by Newark to revitalize the downtown area. 
''Since the 1930s, Seton Hall has 'grown up' with Newark, has become a friend and partner with Newark -- and has become a vital part of the city,'' Msgr. Robert Sheeran, the university president, said in a statement Monday. ''And there is much more to come with Seton Hall basketball at the Prudential Center.''
 Under a five-year deal with the Devils, who will operate and lease the building, the school also said the Prudential Center would be the site for selected women's basketball games during the season. 
 Seton Hall has occasionally played games in the small gym on its South Orange campus since it began playing at the Meadowlands, but all regular-season games next season will be in Newark. Seton Hall averaged just under 7,000 fans a game last season at Continental Arena.
 University officials would not say how much they will pay in the deal. JOHN HOLL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CITY LIFE (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (94%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



553 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; CULTURED TRAVELER LA PAZ, BOLIVIA; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2275 words

HEADLINE: At 12,000 Feet, Andean Culture Meets Pop Art

BYLINE: By JOSHUA HAMMER

 BODY:
THE battered taxi climbed high above downtown La Paz, clattering over cobblestone streets toward the poor hillside neighborhoods where most of the city's Aymara Indians live. Then, as the pedestrian traffic thickened, I heard the sharp, clear notes of a brass band and clambered out of the cab into a mob of celebrants.
 It was 4 p.m. on the last day of Carnaval for the people of the Munaypata barrio, and thousands had gathered in a plaza surrounded by squat brick buildings and dominated by the snow-crusted peak of Mount Illimani, La Paz's sacred symbol. In the center of the square, men clad in outlandishly sequined costumes swigged Huari beer and danced with cholas: indigenous women dressed in traditional black bowler hats and billowing, pleated dresses, known as polleras.
These Ch'uta dance festivities, to which an American expatriate friend had taken me, take place several times a year in the altiplano, Bolivia's high plateau, a barren region of llama herders, desert lakes and impoverished Aymara villages stretching west from the snowy peaks of the Andes. But nowhere is it more colorful than in La Paz, the country's 12,000-foot-high capital. 
 Here neighborhood associations and social organizations, known as fraternidades, compete to see who can put together the most extravagant costumes, most of which combine references to indigenous Aymara culture with a self-mocking twist. One group, for example, the Choleros, or Players, wore baby-blue vacquero costumes, complete with exaggeratedly flared pant legs and Pancho Villa hats. Another fraternity, known as the Intocables, or Untouchables, had decked themselves out as campy Dick Tracys, with fedoras and baggy orange suits adorned with bejeweled Andean motifs including condors and dragons. Many of the participants wore ghoulish masks with giant ears, bulbous green eyes and yellow beards. ''It's all part of our tradition,'' one beer-soaked member of the Intocables told me. ''We all want to be the ones who get the most attention.'' 
 A generation ago, fiestas like Ch'uta drew considerable attention from a group of young artists in La Paz. Partly inspired by the New York-based Pop Art movement, this circle began producing works filled with playful references to Aymara Indian culture: the festival masks, costumes and brightly colored fabrics that stand out sharply amid the washed-out landscapes of the altiplano. But while the Pop Art scene in New York was soon supplanted by other creative waves, it has never really disappeared from La Paz. And now the unique aesthetics of this city and the surrounding region have begun inspiring not just local artists, but also fashion designers and painters from the rest of South America and beyond.
 Noted painters from the United States and Europe have come to La Paz to soak up the city's Andean atmosphere. The British designer John Galliano recently created a line based on the clothing of the Indian tribes of Bolivia and Peru, and last year the Buenos Aires fashion company Tramando introduced tops and skirts inspired by the ''warmth, festivities and myths [and] rich chromatic nuances'' of altiplano culture. Trixie d'Epanoux, a partner in Tramando, recently referred to La Paz as the Pop Art capital of South America. 
 The term is a tricky one. To some, Pop Art can refer to both the original Indian crafts and fashion designs -- mischievous, bright, cartoonish and often kitschy -- and to the evocations of those designs by contemporary artists. Others insist that the terminology can be applied only as Andy Warhol and Roy Lichtenstein meant it to be used -- ''high art'' that uses elements of mass culture to make a creative statement. 
 ''There is a marvelous, undeniably glorious repertoire of colors and forms in Bolivia, but they don't deserve the term Pop Art,'' said Robert Valcarcel, a celebrated Bolivian artist, who has filled his paintings and collages with indigenous imagery. ''I'm not trying to diminish the value of those cultural expressions, but to put them in a conceptual place.'' Mr. Valcarcel prefers to call La Paz a ''proto-Pop Art capital.'' 
 Whatever one calls it, the sensibility is thriving in La Paz. Mr. Valcarcel is one of a handful of Bolivian artists whose work is widely displayed in galleries in other countries in South America and the United States -- and though he moved to the lowland Bolivian city of Santa Cruz from La Paz 15 years ago, he has never really shaken off the altiplano influence. One evening I went to see some of his works at the lavishly decorated home of Patricia Tordoir, an English patron of the arts who has lived with her husband in La Paz for nearly two decades. 
 The founder of a gallery and nonprofit foundation, esART, in the affluent Zona Sur section, Ms. Tordoir has assembled what may be one of the largest contemporary Bolivian modern art collections in the world. She showed me some of Mr. Valcarcel's cartoonlike collages -- a pair of fornicating Lacoste alligators, a Bolivian archangel in a billowing blue-and-orange checkerboard dress, each hand clutching a stick of dynamite (a reference to Bolivia's miners, who are prone to use the explosives both on the job and in confrontations with the government). Ms. Tordoir had also collected works spanning the long career of a Valcarcel contemporary, Gaston Ugalde. His works, including a takeoff of 1980s runaway inflation in Bolivia (a collage of a galloping steed pasted over reams of worthless Bolivian banknotes), are, she says, ''the essence of the Pop Art sensibility.'' 
 I visited Mr. Ugalde one afternoon at his studio in the bohemian neighborhood of Sopocachi just outside La Paz's center. A shaggy, bearded collagist, sculptor and photographer, Mr. Ugalde, 60, specializes in what may be the ultimate kitsch art: collage portraits assembled from coca leaf, Bolivia's most lucrative crop. (He forms patterns on the canvas by using the dark green surface of the leaf and its paler underside.) 
 The ascension in January 2006 to Bolivia's presidency of Evo Morales, an Aymara Indian who previously served as the head of a coca-growing syndicate in the country's Chapare region, has dramatically boosted Mr. Ugalde's profile and his fortunes. Shortly after his victory, Mr. Morales commissioned a coca-leaf presidential portrait, which now hangs prominently in the presidential palace along with Mr. Ugalde's coca portraits of Che Guevara and Simon Bolivar. Mr. Ugalde, who made his first coca portrait in 1992, told me that he was drawn to the leaf as an artistic medium because ''traditionally we use coca leaf here to communicate. You chew it, you drink, and you talk. It brings people together.''
 One of Mr. Ugalde's recent projects consists of a series of striking color photographs taken in the salt flat of Uyuni, eight hours south of La Paz, which juxtapose stark landscapes with uniquely Bolivian cultural artifacts. In one photograph, a transparency of Che Guevara -- shot dead by Bolivian troops in the jungle near Santa Cruz in 1967 and still revered by many here -- is submerged in the turquoise waters of a puddle in the enormous Uyuni salt flat. In another, Mr. Ugalde has wrapped, Christo-style, a rusting, abandoned mining train in a colorful Andean fabric, transforming a bleak symbol of economic collapse (most of the altiplano mines shut down a generation ago) into a celebration of Andean tradition. ''Andeans are among the richest artisan cultures in the world,'' Mr. Ugalde told me. ''Now the concepts of artist and artisan have come together.'' 
 ONE evening friends took me to Gota de Agua, a popular club for traditional Bolivian folkloric music, where artists, moviemakers and other creative types from Bolivia and abroad go to soak up La Paz's Aymara aesthetic. At midnight, it was packed: an Andean band, playing pipes and drums and wearing the distinctive peaked alpaca caps with earflaps, took to the dance floor, surrounded by Bolivian cultural artifacts -- bright murals of peasants in multicolored headdresses, masks of black slave miners with pipes, red beards and helmets (the central motif of the morenada dance, one of the most popular in the annual Gran Poder festival in La Paz). Bolivian fashionistas, video artists and heavy metal rockers mingled over half-liter bottles of Huari beer and danced to both live and recorded Bolivian music. 
 The night I was there, a dozen young French travelers walked through the door, most of them clad in exaggerated versions of traditional Bolivian fashions -- one young woman wore an African-style Moslem cap in alpaca with vertical thin strips in shades of green and gray, and a matching poncho with vertical and horizontal bands of bright colors running into each other. ''We love the colors and the patterns,'' she told me. Growing numbers of young French tourists were discovering Bolivia, she said, drawn by its Andean aesthetic and its changing politics. ''Evo Morales has put Bolivia on the map,'' she said. ''We like it because it's socialist, indigenous and cheap.'' 
 Just up the hill from Gota de Agua stands another establishment that has become popular among the artsy set: La Costilla de Adan, or Adam's Rib, a bar in Sopocachi. The owner, Roberto Cazorla Guzman, a hair stylist, opened the two-story place in what was his home. He has crammed it with curios and artifacts spanning the past century, some indigenously Bolivian, others ''found art'' he picked up at a flea market that takes place every Thursday and Sunday in gray, windswept El Alto, 1,500 feet above La Paz.
 Mr. Cazorla Guzman took me upstairs and showed off his collection of negritas -- black female dolls that originated during the Spanish colonial era when upper-class Bolivian women used African slaves as wet nurses. The dolls, now embraced as symbols of fecundity, are traditionally brought out for La Paz's annual Alasitas Festival. The owner told me that he designed his bar-club as ''a house of creative inspiration.'' 
 For all of its dazzling visual imagery, La Paz remains an artistic backwater. Government financing for artists is nonexistent, and the domestic market in this poor country is so limited that even an artist of the stature of Roberto Valcarcel must support himself by teaching. That is what troubles Mr. Valcarcel most about calling La Paz a Pop Art capital -- it wrongly implies, he says, both a thriving contemporary art scene and an aesthetic that is ''still imitating the New York Pop artists'' 40 years late. 
 As an inspiration for graphic design and fashion, La Paz may be one of the hottest scenes around. But for the handful of local artists trying to survive here, it can be a very cold place indeed. NOT SOUP CANS, BUT COCA LEAVES GETTING THERE 
 American Airlines operates flights between Kennedy Airport in New York and La Paz via Miami. Flights for mid-June were recently available starting at $600, with a two-hour layover in Miami on the way down, and stops in Santa Cruz, Bolivia, and Miami on the way back.
 Last New Year's Eve, Bolivia's Congress passed a law requiring United States citizens to obtain tourist visas, but most Bolivian embassies were not equipped to implement the new requirement, and as of mid-May the law still hadn't gone into effect. Check with your local Bolivian consulate or the embassy to determine what the rules are. The currency is the boliviano, but U.S. dollars are accepted in most hotels and restaurants. HOTELS 
 Hostal Republica (Calle Commercio 145 in the Central District; 591-2-220-2742; www.hostalrepublica.com) is a beautiful colonial-style villa that was once the home of a president of the republic. It's walking distance from the Plaza Murillo, where the presidential palace is now situated; doubles with private bath, $26. 
 Somewhat more upscale is the three-star Eva Palace Hotel (Calle Sagarnaga 173, Central District; 591-2-231-4885; www.evapalacehotel.com), in the heart of La Paz's bustling tourist district, is just up the street from the Plaza San Francisco. Doubles from $38. 
 Hotel Radisson (Avenida Arce 2177; 591-2-244-1111; www.radisson.com/lapazbo) in Sopacachi, just up the road from the United States Embassy, is a clean, modern, comfortable hotel with a decent restaurant and high-speed Internet access. Doubles from $180. RESTAURANTS AND BARS 
 Bocaisapo (Final Indaburo, around the corner from Calle Jaen, in Casa Verde de la Cruz) is a popular wine bar frequented by La Paz's artists and writers. It features traditional Bolivian music and heated discussions about art, literature and Andean culture at its heavy wooden tables and lambskin-covered benches. 
 Costilla de Adan (Pasaje Aspiazu 743, between Calle Aspiazu and Avenida Abdon Saavedra; 591-2-241-2318) opened six months ago and quickly became one of the most popular bars in town. Its lively half-dozen lounges spread over two floors are crammed with Pop Art and Bolivian artifacts.
 Gota de Agua (Calle Ilampu 837, between Sagarnaga and Santa Cruz), one of La Paz's hottest clubs, features traditional Bolivian music, both live and recorded, in a traditional Andean milieu. On weekends the beer flows and the dancing goes on until dawn. Cover charge varies depending on the entertainment, but isn't more than $2. 
 Los Tumbos del Sur (Avenida Costanero 60, Seguencoma District; 591-2-275-2037) serves large helpings of traditional Bolivian food, as does La Casa de los Pacenos (Avenida Sucre 814; 591-2-228-0955). Dinner for two is $20 to $25 at either. 
 La Comedie (Pasaje Gustavo Medinacelli 2234; 591-2-242-3561) in Sopacachi, which serves French cuisine, is widely regarded as the best restaurant in town. Dinner for two costs less than $40. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 3, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Cultured Traveler column last Sunday about La Paz, Bolivia, misstated the surname in some copies for Roberto Cazorla Guzman, the owner of the Costilla de Adan bar. As the article noted in other references, he is Mr. Cazorla, not Mr. Guzman.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Museo Tambo Quirquincho in La Paz, works by contemporary artists. Gaston Ugalde with his Simon Bolivar portrait made from coca leaves.
La Paz is at about 12,000 feet elevation
in El Alto, 1,500 feet higher, a 9/11 image on a bus
 participants in Ch'uta dances compete to attract attention with their exaggerated costumes. (Photographs by Evan Abramson for The New York Times) Map of Bolivia highlighting La Paz. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (74%); FASHION DESIGN (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); MAMMALS (54%); LLAMA & ALPACA PRODUCTION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); BOLIVIA (91%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



554 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; JOBS: HOME FRONT; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Finding a New Path To the World of Work

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED. 
E-mail: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
SOCIAL scientists call them ''disconnected'' young people -- older teenagers and people in their early 20s who are not in school, not employed and not seeking work. 
 Nearly 170,000 New York City residents ages 16 to 24 were said to be in this category in a report in 2005 by a leading social services group, the Community Service Society of New York.
Tens of thousands of other people in this age group are not in school and not working but do continue to seek jobs, only to be repeatedly rejected. Social science and labor experts differ on whether they, too, should be considered disconnected, given that they are still in the labor market. 
 Earl O'Brien, 21, a high school dropout from Brooklyn, spent two years in the ranks of the rejected. Despite the disagreement among the experts over what he should be called, Mr. O'Brien clearly felt disconnected from the mainstream. ''Everyone I knew was getting somewhere,'' he said recently. ''I felt discouraged and disappointed.''
 Then there are the others who are not in school and do work, but only in minimum-wage jobs, sometimes with long spells of unemployment in between. Such people are marginally connected to the work force, the experts say. Tamara Parson, 21, from the Bronx, was in this situation for three years and, the experts' nuances aside, ''I felt I was not with the working world,'' she said.
 Ms. Parson, who similarly lacks a high school diploma, and Mr. O'Brien described their dead-end days in recent interviews at the Manhattan headquarters of an organization that since March has been offering them a new path. This nonprofit group, Vocational Foundation Inc., has been helping young New York City residents move into the world of work since it was established in 1936.
 The group initially provided employment assistance to males 16 to 25. By the mid-1940s the group's free services had been extended to young women, who in recent years have been about 60 percent of the clients. The age range of those served has also varied over the years, and is now 17 to 21.
 The group's current program combines job training, job placement and continued counseling for two years to try to ensure that graduates remain employed. Two 17-week training cycles are held annually, starting in September and March, with about 150 people enrolled in each. They are prepared for jobs as bank tellers, computer technologists, security guards, administrative assistants in medical offices (the track Ms. Parson is on) or general office workers (Mr. O'Brien's track).
 The course also includes instruction in material on the test for the high school equivalency diploma; 89 percent of the clients in one recent cycle did not have a school or equivalency diploma. 
 The proportion of clients completing the cycles has varied in the last few years, from 65 percent to 82 percent, said Hector Batista, the foundation's chief executive. About 85 percent of recent graduates have been placed in jobs, at an average starting wage of $9 an hour, his group says, and about 60 percent of recent graduates are still at work, for the same or another employer, two years after graduation.
 The Community Service Society said that disconnected young people were at risk because they were more likely ''to engage in activities that are destructive to themselves and their communities.'' 
 It acknowledged that its definition might be overly broad because it included all stay-at-home mothers, even those with degrees and stable circumstances, but said that this was offset by other elements in the definition.
 Some Vocational Foundation clients were not considered in the disconnected or marginalized ranks but seemed headed for them. They include Christian Ruiz, 17, of Brooklyn, who began the current cycle shortly after dropping out of high school.
 ''I was cutting, playing hooky,'' he said. ''I didn't have motivation.'' But as he was quitting school, a counselor there told him about the foundation, where he is on the computer technology track.
 Ms. Parson said a newspaper advertisement for the foundation prompted her to seek its help. 
 After her senior year in high school, she recalled, she still lacked 15 credits needed for a diploma, and she decided to leave school, ''where I felt I'd be too old for the crowd.'' She hoped to earn an equivalency diploma but never did. 
 Mr. O'Brien said that he had dropped out in the 11th grade and that his only work in the two years since was the occasional low-paying job as a drummer with a rock group. He learned about the foundation from a recruitment card he received in the mail. Getting an office job ''would help for now,'' he said, but his ultimate goal is to become a music producer. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christian Ruiz, 17, of Brooklyn, is in a job training program run by the Vocational Foundation. The organization holds two 17-week training cycles annually. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (79%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); INTERVIEWS (63%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: VOCATIONAL FOUNDATION INC (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



555 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 5-27-07: THE ETHICIST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Age-Old Problem

BYLINE: By Randy Cohen

 BODY:
I am a single 62-year-old woman with a full-time job. Two years ago I allowed my 87-year-old mother, then quite ill, to live in my home with a 24/7 caretaker. Mother is now in good health, with mild dementia, but still needs the caretaker. I would desperately like them out of my home. None of my six siblings can take her in. What is my obligation? name withheld, California
You (as well as your siblings) have an ethical obligation to see that your mother is well cared for, a task you've shouldered admirably, not a duty to make her your permanent roommate. But I suspect that you were not contemplating leaving her at the curb on recycling day, just lamenting the current arrangement. 
 It's easy to recognize this obligation -- when we're children, our parents care for us; when they're elderly and need help, we look out for them -- but harder to describe how to meet it. Finding a way to do so is something for you, your mother (if she is sufficiently lucid) and your siblings to discuss. In devising a solution, your happiness, too, is worthy of consideration. You may not abandon your mother, but she may not ignore your wish to lead your own life.
 Yours is not an uncommon problem. Nearly 22 million Americans with full-time jobs care for parents or other family members. There are many services -- in housing, health care and transportation, for example -- that you might not have considered. You can find some of them through the AARP Web site, the U.S. Administration on Aging or the geriatric unit at your local hospital. As important as knowing your ethical obligation is learning pragmatic ways to meet it.
 I am a retired orthopedic surgeon who volunteers at a clinic for the indigent elderly. I treated a woman who has obviously been crippled by a surgeon. She will soon lose the ability to walk and has chronic pain. She is unaware of her right to sue for malpractice. Am I obligated to inform her, particularly when I know that she will need the money for continuing care? name withheld, Florida
 As you seem to imply, you must give your patient a true understanding of her present condition, and that conversation may reasonably address the past treatment that brought it about. If you were discussing the case with a colleague, surely you'd opine that the patient was ill served by her last doctor. Your patient herself is entitled to the same candor.
 Her legal options, too, are germane. Physicians often consider a patient's economic circumstances. (Is a patient insured? Can she afford her medication?) As you note, the economic relief she might gain through the courts can have a significant effect on her medical care and thus is within your purview. You may not offer legal advice, but you should encourage her to seek it.
 I understand your reluctance to disparage a colleague or embroil another doctor in a malpractice suit. But your primary obligation is to your patient's health, not to your colleague's reputation. If you do not give her this meaningful information, how is she to get it?
 UPDATE: The physician not only discussed his patient's previous treatment but also referred her to an attorney specializing in medical malpractice. He told this attorney that he could not testify in any proceeding, lest his receiving payment as an expert witness suggest a conflict of interest. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (89%); AGING (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (86%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (77%); GERIATRICS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); DEMENTIA (72%); HEALTH CARE (69%); ORTHOPEDICS (63%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



556 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Shopping Becomes An Urgent Matter

BYLINE: By BILL MARSH

 BODY:
ZIMBABWEANS could be forgiven for feeling a perverse nostalgia for last February. Back then, the country's annual inflation rate, the highest in the world, was estimated to be 1,730 percent. 
 Over the 12 months ending in April, it was officially 3,714 percent. But many experts believe government numbers badly understate the problem.
Even the official numbers suggest a potentially alarming future. In April, consumer prices in Zimbabwe doubled over March levels. If that rate held for 12 straight months -- unlikely but not unthinkable -- annual inflation would top 410,000 percent. The May number is due in a few weeks.
 There have been worse cases of hyperinflation, where governments circulate fresh stacks of ever-bigger bills to make up for fiscal shortfalls. (Hyperinflation first appeared in the early 20th century, made possible by higher-speed, high-quality printing.)
 Some worry that Zimbabwe could join the ranks of the rougher episodes. The country's economy is already in tatters.
 ''It's like the law of gravity taking over,'' said John Robertson, an economist based in the capital, Harare. ''It's a very powerful force.''
 Mr. Robertson blames land reform begun a decade ago by the country's president, Robert G. Mugabe. The once-productive farm sector, the nation's biggest industry, was dismantled. Exports and jobs vanished; prices started their climb. For his part, the embattled Mr. Mugabe blames a Western plot for Zimbabwe's economic disaster.
 Shoppers there can easily spend three million Zimbabewean dollars to fill one grocery cart, a sum that far exceeds most families' monthly wages. Mr. Robertson said he recently spent 420,000 dollars for a container of instant coffee.
 Savings and pensions have been devastated. With interest rates officially at a few hundred percent, but far outpaced by inflation, the actual rate of interest amounts to about minus 3,500 percent. Nest eggs, where they existed, have disappeared.
 Mr. Robertson, who will turn 70 in June, is nominally retired. But he continues to work as a consultant to make up for the loss of his savings.
 ''I shall have to work till the day I drop,'' he said. BILL MARSH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bread shopping in April. Each loaf sells for several thousand Zimbabwean dollars, and up. (Photo by Emmanuel Chitate/Reuters) Chart: ''Some Historic Pricing Horrors'' AFTER WORLD WAR I The high cost of World War I, financed through borrowing, contributed to Germany's hyperinflation after the war's end, as did war reparations. Russia 1921-24 57%: AVERAGE PER MONTH Germany 1922-23 322%: AVERAGE PER MONTH Poland 1923-24 81%: AVERAGE PER MONTH WORLD WAR II ERA Greece 1943-44 365%: AVERAGE PER MONTH Hungary 1945-46 19,800%: AVERAGE PER MONTH After World War II, the Hungarian government issued two types of money
the effort spiraled into chaos. In 1993-94, Yugoslavia experienced the worst inflation in history. Its economy was devastated by international sanctions
government mismanagement added to the currency collapse. MODERN ERA Yugoslavia, Dec. 1993 283,000%: IN ONE MONTH The Escalation In Zimbabwe In March, prices rose 50 percent. In April they rose 101 percent, or doubled
11 more straight months of doubling would be a huge yearly inflation rate of about 410,000 percent. 101%: IN APRIL On the scale of this chart, the bar representing Yugoslavia's Dec. 1993 rate would be 566 feet tall, about 60 feet higher than the United Nations Secretariat Building. At this scale, Hungary's average monthly rate during 1945-46 would be about 39 feet tall, or about 21.6 additional newspaper pages in length. U.S. inflation in April was 0.4 percent. (Sources by Dr. Anil K. Kashyap, University of Chicago Graduate School of Business
International Monetary Fund
 Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); WORLD WAR I (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (72%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECRETARIAT (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); HARARE, ZIMBABWE (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (59%) ZIMBABWE (97%); HUNGARY (93%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



557 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front ; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: In a City Known for Its Renters, a Record Number Now Own Their Homes

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
New York, a city of renters since immigrants began jamming lodging houses and tenements early in the 19th century, has reached two milestones in homeownership:
 One in three households now own their dwellings, according to a new analysis of census results. And the number of homes and apartments occupied by their owners has passed one million for the first time.
Propelled by a building boom, co-op and condominium conversions, the lifting of rent regulations and the availability of low-interest and risky subprime mortgages, the rate of homeownership in the city increased more from 2000 to 2005 than during all of the 1990s, according to the analysis, conducted by Queens College demographers for The New York Times.
 In 1990, 28.7 percent of New Yorkers owned their homes, according to the census figures. In 2000, 30.2 percent did, and five years later, according to the analysis of the Census Bureau's 2005 American Community Survey, 33.2 percent were homeowners. 
 ''It is my understanding that 33 percent is a record high for the city,'' said Vicki Been, director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University.
 The increases spanned all major racial and ethnic groups in the city, and the steepest jumps occurred in some of the poorest neighborhoods: the South Bronx, Central Harlem, the Lower East Side, Washington Heights and Brownsville, Brooklyn. In each of those, the proportion of property owners had risen by more than 70 percent since 1990. In the South Bronx, for example, the Census Bureau found nearly 3,600 homeowners in 2005, up from 1,600 in 1990. Only one neighborhood, Bushwick, Brooklyn, registered a decline.
 Sarah Plowden, a church administrator, lives with her grandson in a home she bought in East New York, Brooklyn, in 1992 for $110,000 under the Nehemiah program, which has built low-cost houses on land donated by the city. Today, she said, it is worth about two and a half times what she paid for it. 
 ''I've had a chance, in owning a home, to have some equity for retirement if I decide to sell it,'' she said. 
 The shift toward homeownership heralds broad implications for the city's future. 
 ''Homeownership,'' says John H. Mollenkopf, executive director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York Graduate Center, ''is the strongest predictor of being likely to turn out in local politics and being a bit more conservative and antitax in your general outlook.''
 Since 1990, the rate of homeownership among black New Yorkers has risen to 28 percent from 21 percent; among Hispanics, to 16 percent from 12 percent; among Asians, to 40 percent from 31 percent; and among non-Hispanic whites, to 44 percent from 38 percent. 
 The number of foreign-born owners is up, too. In 2005, 40 percent of New York's homeowners were born outside the United States; in 1990, 30 percent of them were. ''Everybody's buying,'' said Lourdes Cartagena, a broker with Foxtons real estate in the Bronx and Westchester County.
 But the analysis also found an increase in the price that the homeownership imposes. Rent consumed a higher proportion of household income in 2005 than in 1990, but the increased costs for homeowners climbed even more steeply. In 1990, 15 percent of homeowners were spending 35 percent or more of their income on housing. By 2005, 32 percent of owners were. 
 Monthly housing costs for owner-occupied homes and apartments with a mortgage consumed about one-third of the median income in Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens in 2005 -- a higher percentage than in all but four counties in the country. Manhattan homeowners spent about one-fifth of their median income. 
 Since 2000, the median rent rose about 10 percent, to $909 from $823 a month. During the same period, median monthly mortgage costs for homeowners increased more than 15 percent, to $2,062 from $1,786. Those figures did not account for the tax advantages of homeownership, namely the income tax deduction for mortgage interest.
 ''Homeownership rates increased even as fewer and fewer New Yorkers were able to afford the city's housing,'' Professor Been said in an interview. ''Less than 5 percent of home sales in 2005 were affordable to New Yorkers earning the median income, $43,434, down from 10.7 percent in 2000, and less than 7 percent were affordable to those making 120 percent of the median income, down from 21.5 percent in 2000.'' (Generally, ''affordable'' is defined as spending no more than 30 percent of income on housing and a purchase price that is roughly two and a half times the buyer's annual income.) 
 Nationwide, the proportion of homeowners also increased, to about 68 percent -- partly a result of the greater availability of mortgage loans with low initial interest rates or extended terms for first-time buyers with spotty credit.
 ''Some say that New York City homeownership rates may be less driven by subprime lending because co-ops often don't allow much in the way of 'creative' financing and because homeowners are wealthier in the city than elsewhere,'' Professor Been said. ''But the rate of subprime home purchase loans tripled in New York City between 2002 and 2005, and that likely is accounting for some of the increase in homeownership rates.''
 Shaun Donovan, the city's housing commissioner, said officials had identified neighborhoods where subprime lending had grown sharply and where initial foreclosure filings, but not necessarily foreclosures, had increased. The Furman Center found that the highest percentage of subprime lending occurred in Brownsville; East New York; Jamaica, Queens; and Williamsbridge in the Bronx, which also were among the neighborhoods that recorded the largest increases in homeownership. 
 Last month, City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. cited estimates that the number of foreclosure filings in the city could reach 15,000 this year, more than double the total two years ago. 
 ''Homeownership is not right for everyone,'' said Sarah Gerecke, chief executive officer of Neighborhood Housing Services of New York City, which promotes affordable housing and advises prospective owners. 
 The desire to own a home can strain even those at higher incomes. David Kolker, a 37-year-old financial analyst and semiprofessional guitarist who has his own band, is moving in the fall from an apartment on East 27th Street in Manhattan, where the rent is rising to $6,000 from $3,100, to a condominium in a converted office building downtown on Greenwich Street. He bought the condo for $1.4 million, and he estimates that it will cost him about $6,500 a month, after his income tax deduction. 
 ''At $3,100, I can take my girlfriend out to dinner every night,'' Mr. Kolker said. ''At the new place, I'm buried. But my gamble is that my pay will increase, and the equity will, too.''
 Mark K. Levitan, who is leaving his job as senior policy analyst for the Community Service Society, an advocacy group, to conduct research for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's Center for Economic Opportunity, said that another incentive to buy has been rent deregulation, including the removal of rent controls on apartments that become vacant.
 ''Along with the supply-side factors -- more co-ops and condos, greater access to credit -- I would add another: the growing scarcity of affordable rental units,'' Mr. Levitan said. 
 ''On the demand side, I would guess that there are more people who want to settle in the city and want the security and equity that comes with ownership,'' he said. This is assuming, he added, that the prices reflect the value of the property and that owners have invested in neighborhoods that go up in value. 
 Women are responsible for much of the increase in homeownership. In 2005, they accounted for 47 percent of New York homeowners, up from 34 percent in 1990.
 Beth Olarsch, a 40-year-old consultant for a financial services company, was renting a sublet in Chelsea and recently bought a one-bedroom apartment on the Upper East Side. Her monthly costs are similar.
 ''I could move out and continue paying rent elsewhere, and for about same amount of money,'' she said. ''Or I could pay my mortgage and maintenance and own something.'' 
 New York's rate of homeownership remains the lowest of any major American city. The figure is 36 percent in Boston, 40 percent in Los Angeles, 43 percent in Washington, 48 percent in Houston and 57 percent in Philadelphia. 
 The ownership rate in New York State is also the lowest in the country, although in 1990 the number of households that owned their homes surpassed the number of renters for the first time. 
 In the 1890 census, only about 6 percent of New York City residents reported owning a home. In 1900, even after the consolidated city absorbed residential tracts in Brooklyn and Queens, the overall homeownership rate was just 12 percent. 
 By 1950, with new housing being built for returning military veterans, the share of owners topped 19 percent. With the exception of the 1970s, when the city flirted with bankruptcy, the proportion has been inching up ever since. 
 But much earlier in the city's history, in the 17th century, homeownership was more commonplace. 
 ''A high percentage, probably the majority, of families in New Amsterdam owned their homes -- the obvious exception being slaves,'' said Russell Shorto, author of ''The Island at the Center of the World.'' 
 ''Homeownership was necessary in order to be a burgher, and have a voice in city affairs,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Beth Olarsch says the monthly costs for her new Upper East Side apartment are about the same as for her old sublet in Chelsea. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. 28) Chart: ''Owning in the City'' New York City homeownership increased among all major ethnic groups from 1990 to 2005, according to an analysis of census figures. WHITE* 1990: 38% 2005: 44 ASIAN* 1990: 31 2005: 40 BLACK* 1990: 21 2005: 28 HISPANIC 1990: 12 2005: 16 ALL GROUPS 1990: 29 2005: 33 * Non-Hispanic (Sources by N.Y.U. Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy
Queens College Sociology Department
 United States Census Bureau)(pg. 28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CENSUS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (79%); IMMIGRATION (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); CITIES (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); ETHNICITY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (62%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (55%); SUBPRIME LENDING (55%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



558 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5244 words

HEADLINE: Does Coke Need A Refill?

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

DATELINE: Atlanta 

 BODY:
''A Coke is a Coke and no amount of money can get you a better Coke than the one the bum on the corner is drinking. All the Cokes are the same and all the Cokes are good.'' -- Andy Warhol 
 WALK through any room of the sparkling New World of Coca-Cola museum here and you get a sense of the unusual purchase Coke has on the American imagination. With a huge, glowing Coke bottle beaming from its roof, this $96 million museum includes a mini-bottling plant, interactive gadgets and a short movie about collectors of Coke memorabilia. Sure enough, a woman wearing a red-and-white Coke pantsuit, with a matching purse, is among the viewers at a recent screening of the film.
Visitors can also create personalized Coke artwork on a computer screen or jot down memories about their first Coke, some of which are posted nearby. One example: ''I remember my first kiss in 1972. I was with Joey Zawadski from Chicago. He was visiting his grandmother who lived in my town. He leaned over to give me a kiss and it tasted like Coke. Joey is gone but I still have my Coke. Betty.'' 
 But while it still maintains its enviable pop-culture status, the Coca-Cola Company no longer wields the kind of business clout it did decades ago, when Coke, as jingle after jingle told us, was the ''real thing'' that graciously taught the world to sing ''in perfect harmony.'' Instead, lashed to a product and a corporate culture that is older than many of its most well-known marketing pitches, Coke has found itself outmaneuvered, at least in the United States, by a host of more creative competitors, like PepsiCo. As those rivals have diversified and taken risks, Coke, the beverage industry's Goliath, has struggled to reinvent itself. 
 Some, like E. Neville Isdell, Coke's chairman and chief executive, say the company has a good playbook in hand. When he is not talking about ''transformational wellness platforms'' and the ''need state map,'' Mr. Isdell likes to sprinkle the word ''fun'' into his speeches. He refers to his days as a rugby player as ''fun.'' He likes a Coke ad because ''it's absolutely brand-centric and it's fun.'' Working in the soft-drink business is fun, too, he says.
 But Mr. Isdell's words aren't entirely convincing: fun has been hard to come by at Coke headquarters here for quite some time.
 A towering 63-year-old from Ireland, Mr. Isdell left a comfortable, tropical retirement in Barbados three years ago to return to one of the world's most recognizable companies, but one that was in disarray after years of turnover, misdirection and internal squabbles. In doing so, he became the caretaker of one of the most storied legacies in corporate America, and a business that has set standards for savvy global expansion, lithe, and inventive brand management and marketing panache.
 Yet the future of the company that Mr. Isdell took over in 2004 was in jeopardy. Coke's tightly knit and long-serving board selected him after it had unsuccessfully pursued several other big-name chief executives. Meanwhile, PepsiCo, Coke's longtime nemesis, was clobbering it in the United States, helping to cause Coke's stock to lose nearly half of its value from its 1998 high of $88.
 Now, nearly three years after Mr. Isdell created a ''Manifesto for Change,'' it remains unclear whether he can reclaim Coke's former glory. He and his team have largely borrowed their turnaround strategy from the heroes of Coke's past: blanket the landscape with Coke signs, push the product in developing markets abroad and spend more money on advertising -- to recapture, as Mr. Isdell puts it, the idea that ''there is a magic around the brand.''
 Analysts widely credit Mr. Isdell with improving morale and stabilizing what many considered a dysfunctional company. Coke has a hit in a new product, Coke Zero, and a catchy ad in ''The Coke Side of Life,'' which focuses on its distinctive bottle; the company is also enjoying brisk overseas sales. Its most recent quarterly earnings were its best in years.
 To be sure, Coke -- which racked up earnings of about $5 billion on sales of $24 billion last year -- remains a formidable presence, in the United States and overseas. The company's own number-crunchers are fond of saying that a Coca-Cola beverage of some sort is swallowed 1.4 billion times a day in various spots on the planet. (That translates to 58,333,333 servings an hour; or 972,222 a minute; or 16,204 a second.) But Coke is at a crossroads, and it has been slow to make its mark in the booming American market for energy drinks, bottled water and other noncarbonated drinks. Mr. Isdell took a step toward addressing that problem on Friday when Coke announced a $4.1 billion takeover of Glaceau, a producer of vitamin-enhanced water. 
 The Glaceau deal is a milestone for a company that has never pulled off a takeover of this magnitude before. Even so, some analysts still wonder whether Mr. Isdell and his board remain too conservative to break from traditions that once served them well but may no longer be suited to a world in which consumer tastes are rapidly -- sometimes constantly -- shifting.
 Tom Pirko, the president of the consulting firm Bevmark and a frequent critic of Coke's soda-dominated strategy, says the Glaceau deal is a good move for the company. But he says Coke needs to be more innovative and invest more resources in emerging markets. With all of the new drinks flooding the market, he likens the beverage industry to television: there were once only three major networks, but now there is cable, the Internet, DVD, and TiVo, among others. 
 ''Fabulous icon, but even icons must change with the times and new generations of young consumers,'' he says of Coke. ''Even a cursory examination of the Coke portfolio shows little creativity in taking risks or sinking serious funds into new products. Instead, Isdell has satisfied himself with baby steps.''
 Not to worry, Mr. Isdell counters. In an interview in Coke's sumptuous 25th-floor executive offices here, where he sits surrounded by Coke-themed artwork, he says Coke is now prepared to do more than take baby steps -- as the Glaceau deal shows. And, he adds, Coke is large enough and has been around long enough act with deliberation.
 ''People are always in a hurry for instant gratification,'' he says between slugs from a can of Coke Zero, one of a half-dozen or so he drinks each day. ''For all of the problems, this wasn't a company that was going bankrupt.
 ''There is no need to go bet the house,'' he adds. ''This is not a rescue situation.''
 ''What could be better than making your living by selling a product that makes billions of people happy?''
 -- Roberto C. Goizueta, Coke chairman and chief executive, 1981-1997 
 Invented in 1886 by an Atlanta pharmacist and Civil War veteran and marketed as a tonic for headaches and fatigue, Coca-Cola became a potent symbol of abundance and effervescence as it expanded around the globe. And much of the credit for Coke's ubiquitous and special place in pop culture resides with a handful of visionary leaders, like Asa G. Candler, who bought the secret formula a few years later for $2,300 and then began a relentless marketing campaign that included plastering Coke's distinctive script on everything from lampshades and napkins to sheet music and ashtrays.
 Robert W. Woodruff, who was known as ''the Boss'' and who ruled Coke for nearly six decades, was largely responsible for spreading the cola throughout the world, starting in 1926 with the establishment of a ''foreign department.'' His masterstroke came during World War II, when he vowed that every American soldier would get a Coca-Cola for a nickel. It made lifelong Coke drinkers out of the soldiers and spread Coke's appeal overseas.
 Roberto C. Goizueta, a chemical engineer and Cuban refugee, became the chief executive of Coke in 1981 -- the first non-Georgian to run the company -- and spent the next 16 years dazzling Wall Street with the company's growth. According to Coke, a share of its stock was worth $35.88 when Mr. Goizueta took office; by the time he died in 1997, that same share was worth the equivalent of $2,209.72 -- pleasing investors like Warren E. Buffett, who ownsed boatloads of Coke stock.
 By then, Coke had such a firm hold -- rivaled by few other companies of any stripe -- on the popular American imagination that collectors traded everything from vintage Coke vending machines to salt-and-pepper shakers bearing a Coke logo. After Coke opened the World of Coca-Cola museum in 1990, some 750,000 visitors a year paid to see it.
 But like other ubiquitous American brands, from Ford and Polaroid to McDonald's and Budweiser, Coca-Cola would begin to lose its magic. It seemed to happen almost overnight, as if unseen forces were conspiring against the company: the stock market bubble burst and foreign economies deflated; tainted cans of coke made Belgian schoolchildren sick; some of Coke's African-American employees sued, citing an ugly history of discrimination.
 Worse yet, soft drinks became a prime target in the national debate about why so many Americans were fat. Drinking Coke wasn't so ''fun'' anymore, and Americans started reaching for bottled water and an expanding variety of other noncarbonated drinks that offered new tastes and better nutrition.
 Coke was accustomed to being dominant, but its potent legacy -- built on the principle of saturating markets with cola -- shackled the company as it tried to adjust to new circumstances. It was slow to offer bottled water, bypassed a chance to buy Gatorade and dragged its feet in trying to acquire the South Beach Beverage Company, the maker of SoBe. (Pepsi now owns Gatorade and SoBe.)
 Under Mr. Isdell, Coke is now trying to be a more spritely buyer. Coke's deal for Glaceau, the company that makes Vitaminwater, offers evidence of that. Vitaminwater is a huge hit among young people, and is on its way to being a $1 billion brand. In other words, it is exactly the type of hip brand that Coke has unsuccessfully struggled to produce on its own or to buy outright in recent years. 
 If the deal goes through, it would be the biggest in Coke's history and significantly bolster the company's portfolio of noncarbonated beverages in the United States -- a portfolio that pales next to Pepsi's.
 For his part, Mr. Isdell -- who, like many chief executives, is looser in informal settings than in scripted public appearances -- says that coming out of retirement to take the job has given him a freedom that he might not have had if he were younger and less secure. He says that he has been hearing about the need for diversification and acquisitions since he took over Coke and that -- at least initially -- he put little faith in the mantra because the company was so unfocused. 
 To the disbelief of investors and some members of his staff, he has routinely maintained that selling more soda, and Coca-Cola in particular, rather than diversifying into other beverages or foods, was a crucial first step to a turnaround. The problem was not the brand, he has said, but lackluster execution by Coke employees.
 Soon after he took office, he was unusually blunt in pointing out what he considered to be flaws of his work force, from tepid marketing and innovation to a loss of faith in the trademark brand. ''We looked in the mirror and saw that the enemy was us,'' Mr. Isdell says. ''We really didn't have a coherent view of who we were.'' 
 MR. ISDELL'S faith in the Coke brand is not hard to trace. The son of a policeman, he moved from Northern Ireland to Zambia when he was 10. He joined the local Coke bottling company in Zambia in 1966 and spent the next 35 years with the company and its bottlers, retiring in 2001 after serving as vice chairman of one of Coke's biggest bottling operations. His career consisted of capturing and overhauling foreign markets, including South Africa, Australia, Germany, India, the Philippines and the Middle East. He counts among his finest memories Coke's breakthrough in Eastern and Central Europe -- what had been ''Pepsi country''-- after the Berlin Wall came down. 
 ''We had a map that was all blue, and we were changing the color to red as we went through,'' he says. 
 Mr. Isdell's focus-on-soda strategy looked disastrous shortly into his tenure. By early 2006, the stock had sunk to less than $40, down from $51.07 when he was elected chief executive. The stock closed at $51.89 on Friday. Some analysts say the initial stock slump was attributable to Mr. Isdell's intentionally painting a gloomy picture about Coke's outlook.
 ''He kind of kitchen-sinked it, throwing everything in but the kitchen sink to lower expectations'' says Walter B. Todd III, portfolio manager at Greenwood Capital Associates in Greenwood, S.C. ''He kind of underpromised and overdelivered, which was smart.'' 
 Mr. Isdell does not deny it, and he argues that getting bad news out early and focusing on the company's core brands -- Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, Sprite and Fanta -- is starting to pay off. Instead of looking for quick fixes, he says he needed to go slow to fix problems around the Coke brand before he could risk ''transformational'' acquisitions.
 ''We are in a pretty good place on a road that is a long road,'' he says.
 Coke's soft-drink sales volumes increased 4 percent last year, and earnings per share rose 6 percent -- respectable, but a far cry from the 15 to 20 percent numbers that Coke posted in the 1990s. In the first quarter this year, soft-drink volumes increased 5 percent, attributable largely to huge gains overseas. Earnings per share jumped 15 percent, as did company profits.
 The company's goal is 3 percent to 4 percent volume growth, with high single-digit growth in earnings per share. Asked if Coke could again reach double-digit growth, Mr. Isdell says, ''that's a question we'll answer in small increments.'' He says that much of the company's growth will depend on the growth of the global economy. 
 Some analysts are cheered by Mr. Isdell's results.
 ''They are focused on execution and letting the numbers tell the story instead of just talking about hope,'' says Christine Farkas, a Merrill Lynch analyst. ''It turns out in the end that Neville's strategy has been pretty much correct.''
 Mr. Pecoriello says Coke is capable of sustaining double-digit growth during the next five years if it maintains its momentum. ''We do think the turn is real, but there's more room for upside,'' he says. ''There's still a lot to fix in North America. They're still improving the innovation pipeline. They still need to execute all the productivity savings.''
 But believing in Mr. Isdell means believing in a bright future for soda, and there are many who remain unconvinced. According to Beverage Digest, the industry publication, overall global soft-drink volumes were up by 2 percent in 2006; but in the United States, which accounts for a third of the overall consumption, soda sales are declining.
 Mr. Todd of Greenwood Capital, for one, said he bought several thousand shares of Coke after Mr. Isdell was hired but eventually sold them because he became tired of waiting for promised changes. ''I don't think he's addressed the bigger-picture issue, and that is that 80 percent of their business comes from carbonated soft drinks,'' Mr. Todd says.
 ''NOW the saying is you have to be global. We were global when global wasn't cool.''
 -- Roberto C. Goizueta 
 Coke is now available in more than 200 countries, the result of an aggressive global expansion that began in 1906 in Cuba, Panama and Canada. Today, about 70 percent of Coke's sales are overseas. In the first quarter this year, Coke's volume growth in China was 17 percent; in its Eurasia division, which includes Eastern Europe, India and Russia, volume increased 16 percent.
 Coke officials say they have turned around problematic markets like Japan, India, Nigeria and Germany. But on Coke's global map, the United States remains a glaring black spot that is not only embarrassing, but could potentially infect other markets around the globe. The United States, together with Canada, generates 21 percent of the company's profits. 
 Last year, Coke's overall beverage sales in the United States were flat, and soft-drink sales were down slightly. In the first quarter this year, Coke's overall United States sales were down 3 percent.
 And it could get worse.
 Consider, for example, what is happening at a McDonald's restaurant on the corner of 13th and Woodlawn in Wichita, Kan. The experiment does not look like much -- just two unmarked coolers behind the front counter. But what's inside the coolers is a surprise, because McDonald's has always given Coke preferential treatment: not only are there Coke products like Dasani and Powerade, but there's also Mountain Dew, Lipton Green Tea and Gatorade, each made by Pepsi. 
 McDonald's installed the coolers during the last year in about two dozen restaurants, mostly in Kansas and Missouri, after it realized that a growing number of customers were buying their Big Macs and Chicken McNuggets and then heading elsewhere for drinks. Besides the coolers, the test-market McDonald's are also offering free ''flavor shots'' that allow customers to personalize drinks.
 ''It's really about us selling more beverages,'' said Karen Wells, McDonald's vice president for strategy in the United States. ''Everything we've heard so far is very positive from our customers.''
 Coke remains the first choice of McDonald's and is working closely with the hamburger chain on the test marketing. But Ms. Wells said that consumers would ultimately decide McDonald's beverage choices -- a view that threatens a cozy relationship that began in 1955 with a handshake between the McDonald's legend Ray A. Kroc and a Coke executive guaranteeing that Coke drinks would be given preference at the hamburger chain. 
 Indeed, Coke still dominates the fountain trade in America's fast-food restaurants, a particularly lucrative slice of the business that accounts for 31 percent of the company's soft-drink volume in the United States and Canada.
 ''McDonald's seems to want to expand its beverage offerings to better compete with convenience stores,'' says John Sicher, the publisher of Beverage Digest, an industry trade publication. ''I believe most beverages they'll serve in the future will still be Coke products, but what 'most' means will be the issue for Coke. Coke needs to keep expanding its noncarbonated offerings.''
 All of these developments obviously thrill Pepsi officials. ''This is all about giving people more choices, particularly when it comes to product variety, portability and health and wellness,'' says David DeCecco, a Pepsi spokesman. ''We're pleased to be working with McDonald's, and we hope consumers respond favorably to this market test.''
 Over the last five years, PepsiCo's stock has risen 37 percent, while Coke's has fallen about 9 percent. In the last year, however, Coke stock has jumped about 17 percent, while PepsiCo's has increased by about 14 percent.Coke is also encountering a seismic shift in consumer preferences -- of the sort that is challenging the newspaper business and hamstringing automakers. Worried about their health and lured by new drinks, Americans are reaching for bottled water, sports drinks, green teas and juice instead of soda. The decline in soft-drink sales isn't just for full-calorie sodas like Coca-Cola Classic, with about 10 teaspoons of sugar per 12-ounce can. Sales of diet soda are declining too, in part because artificial sweeteners make some consumers nervous.
 The problem is so serious that Coke executives no longer refer to soda as just plain ''soda.'' ''Soft drink,'' ''pop'' and ''carbonated beverage,'' are also verboten. Instead, the favored term in Atlanta these days is ''sparkling beverage.''
 Information Resources, the market research firm, found that dollar sales of carbonated soft drinks declined by 1.4 percent in 2006, to $13.3 billion. (The company's data does not include Wal-Mart.) By contrast, sales of energy drinks jumped 44.6 percent, to $637 million. In other categories, bottled-water sales increased 14.4 percent, to $4.6 billion; sports drinks rose 10.8 percent, to $1.6 billion; and ready-to-drink teas and coffees jumped 25.4 percent, to $1.2 billion.
 Taken as a whole, soda sales still handily outweigh all other beverage categories combined, but the trend lines are ominous for a ''sparkling beverage''-dependent company like Coke. William Pecoriello, a Morgan Stanley analyst, found in a survey last year that teenagers, who used to be among the biggest consumers of soda, increasingly prefer other beverages.
 ''If you lost that generation, as they age they aren't suddenly going to start drinking carbonated soft drinks,'' says Mr. Pecoriello. ''That's the importance of Coke closing the non-carb gap.''
 Yet that insight has hardly been a secret. Coke and Pepsi executives have talked about the importance of noncarbonated beverages since the early 1990s and have rolled out all sorts of new products to attract cola-weary customers. But in that effort, Coke has seemed to always be a step behind.
 ''The difference was, Pepsi meant it and Coke didn't,'' said Emanuel Goldman, the veteran beverage analyst who retired from ING Barings in San Francisco and now works as a consultant. ''Coke really didn't mean it when they said they were an all-beverage company.''
 Pepsi now commands a 50 percent market share for noncarbonated drinks in the United States, with Coke a distant second at 23 percent (without Glaceau). Coke has 43 percent of the soda business in the United States, compared with Pepsi's 31 percent. Pepsi owns the leading brand in nearly every noncarbonated drink category in the United States: bottled water (Aquafina); sports drink (Gatorade); enhanced water (Propel); chilled juice (Tropicana); bottled tea (Lipton, a joint venture) and ready-to-drink coffee (Starbucks, a joint venture).
 COCA-COLA is the ''sublimated essence of all America stands for -- a decent thing, honestly made, universally distributed, conscientiously improved with the years.''
 -- Attributed to William Allen White editor, The Emporia Gazette of Kansas, in 1938. 
 So how did Coke lose its magic? Macroeconomic factors played a role. So did a raft of bad publicity over issues of obesity, racial discrimination and food poisoning. But internal issues were also in play. Mr. Isdell surveyed his top executives about the problem when he took charge, and arrogance, he says, was a common answer. Complacency was another.
 Trying to figure out why it has taken Coke so long to regain its swagger is an equally complicated question. But taking a look at turnover in the management ranks and stasis on the board of directors provides a clue.
 During the 10 years since Mr. Goizueta died, Coke has had three chief executives, three general counsels, four chief operating officers, four heads for North America, and six chiefs of marketing (a particularly troubling metric, given Coke's reputation for brilliant ads and promotions). The president's post, the company's No. 2 job, was vacant for nearly half the decade. 
 The chief marketing position is now vacant because Mary E. Minnick, who was touted as Coke's most forceful voice for change and the highest-ranking woman in the company, resigned abruptly earlier this year after it became clear that Muhtar Kent, who was named president and chief operating officer in December, was the heir apparent to Mr. Isdell.
 Of the top 150 employees at Coke, 61 are new to their jobs or the company, Coke officials say. The turmoil in Coke's executive ranks contrasts sharply with its board, one of the most entrenched in corporate America. It has largely been in place since Mr. Goizueta's term, when the demand for Coke seemed unlimited and double-digit growth was a given.
 Of the 11 current members of the board, eight have served 10 years or longer, and four of those have logged 25 years or more. The average tenure for board members is 16.6 years, nearly double the average of Fortune 500 companies, according to an analysis by the Corporate Library, which tracks corporate governance issues and compensation for executives and board members. Coke has the 10th-longest-serving board among Fortune 500 companies, the analysis found.
 The average age of the 11 directors is 68. Except for Mr. Isdell, all of the board members are American. One is African-American and one is a woman.
 (By comparison, the average tenure of PepsiCo's board is six years, and the average age of its members is 59. Of the 10 members, there are 7 men and 3 women; five of the members were born outside the United States, including the chief executive Indra K. Nooyi, 51, who was born in India.)
 Though Coke's board treated Mr. Goizueta with reverence and left him alone, it has taken a much more hands-on approach with subsequent chief executives. When Douglas N. Daft resigned as chief executive in 2004 after a turbulent tenure, the board embarked on a ham-handed, highly public search to land a hotshot chief executive from another company. The board ultimately turned to Mr. Isdell, who had already been passed over for the top job once, after Mr. Goizueta's death.
 Donald F. McHenry, a former United States ambassador to the United Nations and a board member since 1981, said in an interview that the board had not handled transitions well since Mr. Goizueta's death. He called the process that led to Mr. Isdell's selection ''pretty sloppy.'' 
 ''The leaks were unconscionable,'' says Mr. McHenry, who is also a professor of diplomacy and international affairs at Georgetown University. ''It was not the way to run a railroad.''
 Mr. McHenry says the board has given Mr. Isdell leeway to run the company as he sees fit; Mr. Isdell does not dispute that. As for the age and tenure of the board, Herbert Allen, a director since 1982, says it has the benefit of experience. Asked about the lack of diversity, he says: ''When we are sitting in the room, the opinions are certainly diverse.''
 Some have disagreed. Marc Greenberg, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said in a February note to investors that some of the board's recent actions were ''anathema to real, lasting structural change in how the company does business and may ultimately limit Coke to a high-single-digit earnings grower, even as more appears possible.''
 But the Glaceau deal caused Mr. Greenberg to temper that view. On Friday, he said that the Glaceau deal signifies that at Coke ''there is a recognition that the world is changing.''
 SAILIN' 'round the world in a dirty gondola. Oh, to be back in the land of Coca-Cola!''
 -- from ''When I Paint My Masterpiece,'' by Bob Dylan. 
 Muhtar Kent, who became Mr. Isdell's sidekick in December as president and chief operating officer, has been traversing the United States in recent months, trying to figure out why Coke is having such problems in its home market. 
 ''If you go south of the border to Latin America, you will see millions and millions of signs of Coca-Cola, over outlets that serve Coca-Cola,'' Mr. Kent said. ''Sixty-five to 70 percent of everything we sell is based on impulse. That's our business. There isn't one sign in the United States. No more.''
 Mr. Kent is 54, balding and stocky, and has the frenetic energy of a teenager. The son of a Turkish diplomat, he was born in New York and grew up in Asia, before attending college in England. He joined Coca-Cola in 1978 and has worked around the world for the company. In 1996, Australian regulators accused Mr. Kent, who was working in Europe for a Coke bottler based in Australia, of insider trading after he sold 100,000 shares of the company just before a profit warning. 
 Mr. Kent settled the complaint without admitting guilt by repaying $400,000 in profits and $50,000 to cover the costs of the inquiry. He says that he considers the sale an ''honest mistake'' and that he was unaware of the timing of the sale because he relied on a financial adviser to manage his portfolio. 
 Mr. Kent says he is now focused on turning around Coke's North American business, including Coke's always-fragile relationship with its bottlers, who have struggled to grow and have started distributing other, non-Coke products, like Arizona Iced Tea, to remain competitive.
 Since Mr. Isdell took over, Coke's research and development budget has more than doubled. And Mr. Kent says the company is counting on a beefed-up innovation laboratory to deliver new products and packaging to lure customers. The lab is tucked away in a rather unsavory corner of the company's sprawling headquarters, at the end of a cracked driveway at the back of a low concrete building that looks more like an elementary school than a tech center. A sign on a plain steel door reads ''KO Lab.''
 ''It's kind of got that skunk-works feel,'' says Danny Strickland, Coke's chief innovation and technology officer. But the KO Lab is less a laboratory than a showroom where Coke takes commercial clients to show off its latest products from around the world and to brainstorm about new ones.
 Images of Coke's patents cover one wall, and there are touch-screens throughout that describe the ''need states'' of consumers, like ''comfort and relaxation'' and ''health, beauty and nutrition.''
 The lab also displays all kinds of new products. ''Mother'' is a natural energy drink that has been introduced in Australia, while Nanairo Acha, a tea sold in Japan, changes color depending on its temperature. Coke Zero was created here. The lab is also exploring new ways to market Coca-Cola. A ''super cool'' vending machine keeps soda colder than its freezing point, so that when the cap is opened the bubbles form tiny ice crystals.
 Coke is also pumping up the brand. On Thursday, Coke officially opened its new, 92,000-square-foot museum, replacing the old World of Coca-Cola Museum. What is remarkable about the museum is that visitors pay to walk through a building full of Coke ads, albeit interactive and slickly displayed. Museum officials say they expect more than one million visitors a year. (Admission is $15 for adults, $9 for children.) 
 The museum tour ends in a tasting room that offers Coke products like Bibo from South Africa and Vegitabeta from Japan. On the way out the door, each visitor gets an eight-ounce bottle of Coke before being deposited, inevitably, into a store jammed with Coke memorabilia. The whole experience is like a corporate version of Graceland, Elvis Presley's former home: the same fresh-faced docents, the same reverent fans, the same relentless merchandising.
 It also says a lot about how Coke wants consumers to view it.
 In the ''Advertising Theater,'' visitors can watch some of Coke's most famous ads. Now showing is one of Mr. Isdell's favorites, a relatively new commercial called ''The Happiness Factory'' that takes a whimsical look at the inside of a Coke vending machine. A quarter descends into the guts of a machine, entering a surreal world of oddball characters that prepare the bottle for consumption and celebrate its famous hourglass shape with a parade.
 The commercial is ''fun.'' It also represents the promise of Coke's powerful legacy and the current aspirations of Coke's executives: happiness, inspired by a Coke bottle.
 ''The magic of the bottle,'' Mr. Kent says. ''Nothing else comes close.''
 Unless, of course, it proves to be a water bottle. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: E. Neville Isdell, foreground, the chief executive of Coca-Cola, and Muhtar Kent, the company's president. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)
A classic advertisement from the 1890s, not long after Coke was invented. (Photo by Coca-Cola Company)
Robert W. Woodruff, who led Coca-Cola for six decades, spread Coke's appeal overseas. (Photo by Coca-Cola Company)(pg. 7)
Among the attractions at the $96 million museum are Andy Warhol artwork, left, and places for playful poses, right.
The 92,000-square-foot New World of Coca-Cola museum in Atlanta, which opened last week, replaces one built in 1990.
Fanciful Coca-Cola bottles line a corridor at the company's headquarters in Atlanta. The grounds include a testing laboratory. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. 8)
(Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: ''Coke vs. Pepsi'' In 2000, Coke's stock price was more than $20 a share higher than Pepsi's. But Coke has had some turbulent years, and Pepsi's stock is now more valuable. Graph tracks the monthly stock price per share for Coke and Pepsi since 2000. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 1) Chart/Map: ''I'd Like to Sell the World a Coke'' Though Coca-Cola's market share has slipped, it is still the world's leading carbonated cola. Coke is far ahead of Pepsi in much of Europe and South America, but Pepsi dominates in some Asian markets. Includes Coke, Diet Coke, Pepsi and Diet Pepsi, and the volume sold in stores, not restaurants. Canada Market share: 35% Liters per capita: 18.1 A closely fought market where Coke and Pepsi sales are nearly equal. United States Market share: 41% Liters per capita: 31.3 With a history of brilliant marketing, Coke still leads, with 41 percent to Pepsi's 33 percent. But Coke's share of the cola market has been slowing eroding. Brazil Market share: 85% Liters per capita: 20.2 Some of Coke's best bottlers operate in Latin America, while Pepsi has struggled with bottling woes. United Arab Emirates Market share: 39% Liters per capita: 26.6 Pepsi has had a historical edge in the Gulf states, where Coke is associated with all things American. Russia Market share: 56% Liters per capita: 6.5 Coke has taken the lead in a market that Pepsi once had exclusively, under the unified Soviet bloc. China Market share: 45% Liters per capita: 1.2 An intensely fought market where Pepsi has a slight edge. Both companies see an untapped market here. India Market share: 24% Liters per capita: 0.1 Pepsi, with 40 percent of the cola market, beats out Coke. Like China, India has huge growth potential. Losing Share Coke's market share of all cola sales slipped to 53 percent in 2006 from 57 percent in 2000. (Hannah Fairfield/The New York Times) (Sources by Euromonitor International
 the Coca-Cola Company. U.A.E. and Russia photographs from cokecans.be.) Map of the World highlighting Coca-Cola's market share in 2006. (pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (89%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (78%); BEVERAGE MFG (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); CORPORATE CULTURE (70%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (84%); PEPSICO INC (53%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (84%); PEP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (53%)

PERSON: MUHTAR KENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); INDIA (90%); EUROPE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BARBADOS (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); GULF STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



559 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Baby Boomers Are Cashing In. So What?

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WILL stocks suffer a multidecade bear market as the baby-boom generation sells its shares to support its retirement? Some have predicted such an outcome, but a new study -- which projects huge growth in 401(k) assets in future decades -- paints a far more sanguine picture.
 The study, ''New Estimates of the Future Path of 401(k) Assets,'' has been circulating since earlier this month as a working paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research. Its authors are James M. Poterba, chairman of the economics department at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Steven F. Venti, an economics professor at Dartmouth; and David A. Wise, a professor of political economy at Harvard. A version is at www.nber.org/papers/w13083. 
Despite the baby boomers' liquidation of retirement assets in coming decades, the study estimates that the total size of 401(k) plans will nevertheless grow markedly. That forecast may come as a surprise to some people, the professors concede, because 401(k)'s now represent only a modest fraction of a typical retiree's total wealth. But the professors point out that 401(k) plans have existed only since the early 1980s; by the time that today's younger workers retire, they will have had many more years to contribute to their 401(k)'s than current retirees have had.
 The relative youth of 401(k)'s has worked in several ways to keep their total assets relatively small. Only in recent years have 401(k)'s become available to a majority of American workers.
 In 1984, for example, fewer than one in five families in the United States had any members who were eligible to participate in a 401(k), according to the professors. By 2003, however, that proportion had grown to more than half.
 The percentage of eligible workers who actually invest in 401(k)'s has also grown over the years. In 1984, for example, just 56 percent of eligible workers ages 30 to 34 who could invest in a 401(k) actually did so. By 2003, the rate had jumped to 81 percent.
 These historical patterns mean that, even among workers who invest in 401(k)'s, many have had only a few years to watch the power of compounding in their accounts. To illustrate the effect of time on these accounts, consider an investor who contributes $1,000 a year to a 401(k), which is invested in stocks that earn 10 percent a year, on average. After 10 years, the account will be worth less than $20,000, but after 40 years it will be worth nearly a half-million.
 In projecting how total 401(k) assets would grow from now until 2040, the professors assumed that eligibility and participation rates would keep climbing, though at a slower pace than in recent years. They had to make a number of other assumptions, too -- for example, that the pattern of future retirees' withdrawals from 401(k) plans would be no different from that of past retirees.
 The professors based their projections on survey data collected by the Census Bureau and on demographic data from the Social Security Administration. They predict that, despite the retirement and eventual passing of the baby boom generation, total 401(k) assets will represent a much larger share of annual gross domestic product in 2040 than they do now. 
 The projections did not assume that any portion of the Social Security system would be privatized over the next three decades; if that happened, and investors put into their 401(k)'s what otherwise was paid into the Social Security system, total 401(k) assets would grow even faster. 
 The growth pace of 401(k) assets, of course, also depends on the performance of the accounts. The professors assumed that the typical plan would be 60 percent allocated to stocks and 40 percent to corporate bonds, and that these two asset classes would earn the same rates over the next four decades as they have over the last eight. Using these assumptions, the professors calculated that total 401(k) assets in 2040 would be more than one and a half times the size of G.D.P. -- compared with 43 percent today.
 The professors say that other retirement assets will not grow as fast. So-called defined-benefit plans, which were once the bulk of a typical worker's retirement, will constitute a steadily decreasing proportion over the next four decades. Nevertheless, the professors project that total retirement assets -- including 401(k)'s and other self-directed retirement accounts, as well as defined-benefit plans -- will be about 1.8 times the G.D.P. in 2040, nearly double their current share of 94 percent.
 THE professors reach broadly similar conclusions even when assuming that stocks will earn less in the future than they have in the past. If stocks earn three percentage points a year less than their historical rate of return, for example, the ratio of total retirement wealth to G.D.P. in 2040 will still be markedly higher than it is today.
 In an interview, Professor Poterba stressed that these projections were for total retirement wealth and that not everyone would share in it. ''It's still likely that many people will have difficulty building up adequate retirement assets,'' he said. 
 But if these projections are even close to on target, they suggest that we needn't be too concerned about the retiring baby boomers' overall effect on the stock market. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Retirement Express'' A new study estimates that total retirement assets - including 401(k) plans, other self-directed retirement accounts and defined-benefit plans - will grow markedly in relation to the gross domestic product, despite the retirement of the baby boom generation. Graph tracks forecast ratio of total retirement assets to G.D.P. from 2006 to 2040. (Sources by James M. Poterba, Steven F. Venti, David A. Wise, National Bureau of Economic Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 401K PLANS (94%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (94%); BABY BOOMERS (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (83%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



560 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Bill Adds Fuel to Flames In a Divided Border State

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: PHOENIX, May 23 

 BODY:
Here in Arizona, where fighting over immigration comes as naturally as the desert heat, the Senate bill to overhaul immigration laws has ignited a particularly ardent round of fire breathing.
 While cultural and economic ties to Mexico run deep in Arizona, the country's fastest-growing state, it is also where more people cross illegally from Mexico than anywhere else along the 2,000-mile border.
Republicans are fighting openly among themselves, Democrats are taking conflicting positions on the bill -- or hoping to stay beneath the radar by taking none at all -- while nonpartisans are wondering if, really, anything will come of it all. 
 ''These splits are a harbinger of things to come at the national level, because Arizona is on the front lines,'' said Rodolfo Espino, an assistant professor at Arizona State University who studies ethnic politics. ''It shows this issue is not going to fall cleanly on party lines, especially here.''
 While the political class in many other states also wrangle over immigration, when it comes to Arizona, the state motto might as well be Only More So.
 In the past week alone, the chairman of the state Republican Party rebuked the two United States senators from his own party, John McCain and Jon Kyl, for their support and lobbying for the bill. The chairman, Randy Pullen, part of a vocal band of conservatives, said Mr. Kyl in particular had betrayed conservatives with his sudden support for granting legal status to some of the millions of illegal workers in the country.
 Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat who has little executive authority over immigration matters but has relied on support from Republicans and independents to win two terms, wrote an opinion article in The Arizona Republic urging federal lawmakers to act on the bill, whatever the flaws.
 ''Washington, you need to multitask,'' wrote Ms. Napolitano, who told reporters she was commenting as ''someone who has dealt with this issue probably more than any governor in the U.S. in the last four years.''
 She added, ''I think I would accept what they have on the table compared with the status quo.''
 And two Democratic members of Congress representing the border region are hardly walking in lockstep. Representative Gabrielle Giffords, who took office this year, called the legislation an ''excellent first step,'' and Representative Raul M. Grijalva is objecting to much of it.
 Crucial pieces of the national debate are playing out in microcosm here.
 Republicans must contend with business interests seeking to ensure a steady supply of cheap labor while placating nationalists concerned about the changing culture and faces.
 ''The Democrats have to appeal to the Hispanic community but also labor interests concerned about immigration's effect on wages,'' Professor Espino said.
 It can make for lively discourse.
 Turn the radio dial to KFYI-AM and hear J. D. Hayworth, a recently ousted Republican congressman and talk show host, tear into Ms. Napolitano, Mr. McCain and Mr. Kyl, almost in the same breath, ''for embracing this amnesty deal.''
 Representative Harry E. Mitchell, meanwhile, the Democrat who replaced Mr. Hayworth in a Republican-leaning district, has remained largely silent on the bill. A spokesman explained that while Mr. Mitchell ''supports comprehensive immigration reform,'' he had not commented because the bill had not made its way out of the Senate yet, something that has not constrained his House colleagues.
 Ms. Napolitano, who is mentioned in political circles as a candidate for a cabinet job if a Democrat wins the White House in 2008 or for the Senate if Mr. McCain prevails in his run for the presidency, told reporters at her regular news media briefing Wednesday that the divisions reflected a ''tough issue.''
 As if to remind her, the Arizona Senate moved forward Wednesday with a bill that would prohibit employers from knowingly hiring illegal immigrants. The fact that federal law already proscribes that did not stop the sponsors, who complained that the federal government was not enforcing its own laws.
 Ms. Napolitano said she would not take a position because the bill had not yet made it to her desk, but last year she vetoed an immigration bill that included employer sanctions, saying they lacked teeth.
 State voters have shown an inclination to crack down on illegal immigrants. Last year, a ballot initiative was approved denying in-state tuition fees for illegal residents.
 A telephone poll of 600 registered voters by the Arizona State University journalism school and KAET-TV found that 65 percent of respondents supported changing state laws to allow illegal immigrants to be charged with criminal trespass. A majority also backed criminal charges for employers who hire illegal workers. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus four percentage points.
 Mr. Kyl rode such sentiments to victory in a re-election campaign last year and so he has endured the scorn. His advocacy for the Senate bill has prompted once solid supporters to denounce him, as did State Senator Jack Harper when he joined other lawmakers to announce an effort to unite state legislatures across the country to enact anti-illegal-immigrant measures.
 ''Jon Kyl is a friend, but this bill has destroyed the Republican base,'' Mr. Harper said. ''Precinct captains are grumbling about people changing parties because they feel betrayed.''
 As Mr. Harper and others spoke, a few dozen Kyl supporters massed behind them, waving placards.
 ''We admire him putting this coalition together at the risk of his job,'' said Sharron Gill, one of the supporters. ''He just might lose it. But I think there is silent majority behind him that is not as noisy as this group of legislators.''
 Edward J. Williams, an emeritus professor of political science at the University of Arizona, said Mr. Kyl's ''conversion is as mysterious to me as to other people. But he has always been close to the president, and the president is committed to this issue.''
 Other lawmakers, such as Ms. Giffords and Mr. Mitchell, must tread carefully, Mr. Williams said, ''because they are in a more precarious position and need some Republican support.''
 For all the oratory, there are people clearly paying little heed to the debate.
 Stacy Murphy, a homemaker chatting with friends at a coffee shop here, summed it up.
 ''You look around and there are illegals everywhere,'' said Ms. Murphy, who described herself as an independent voter. ''So how is any of this going to change that? They keep coming and people keep hiring them, and that's just life here, I guess.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''I think I would accept what they have on the table compared with the status quo,'' Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat, said of the bill.
 Day laborers waited outside a gas station in Chandler, Ariz. Residents of the state have come down on all sides of the Senate immigration bill. (Photographs by Laura Segall for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); LOBBYING (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: JANET NAPOLITANO (78%); RAUL M GRIJALVA (58%); JON KYL (58%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



561 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Diane Gross, Khalid Pitts

 BODY:
Diane Louise Gross and Khalid Rasuli Pitts were married last evening at the Dumbarton House, a museum in Washington. The Rev. Ronald Stief, a minister of the United Church of Christ, officiated. 
 Ms. Gross, 37, is keeping her name. She was until last November a consulting counsel for the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, which is based in Washington. From July 2003 to October 2005, she was the counsel to Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland. She graduated from the University of California, Santa Barbara, and received a law degree from New York University.
She is a daughter of Judith Wiesberg of San Diego and Marvin J. Gross of Los Angeles. Her father is a certified financial planner in Los Angeles. Her mother retired as an elementary school teacher for the Los Angeles Unified School District.
 Mr. Pitts, 40, is the director of strategic campaigns for the Service Employees International Union in Washington, where he works on health care, economic and voting rights issues. He graduated from the College of the Holy Cross and received a master's degree in public health from George Washington University. 
 He is a son of Dr. Gloria J. Pitts and Aaron Ibn Pori Pitts of Detroit. His mother is a child psychiatrist in Detroit. His father is an artist whose oil paintings and sketches are on display at the William H. Thomas Art Gallery in Columbus, Ohio. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (56%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: BARBARA MIKULSKI (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (55%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



562 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: You Break It, You Buy It

 BODY:
 To the Sports Editor:
 Re ''Poor Decisions? Knicks Deserve a Mulligan,'' May 25: The premise of William C. Rhoden's column recommending that the N.B.A. provide an economic bailout for the Knicks was so unfair and biased that I thought I must have missed the subtle wink-wink or nudge-nudge. 
Commissioner David Stern succinctly captured the remarkable unfairness of such a bailout: You created this mess, Dolan family; you figure your way out of it. Phil Mann New York To the Sports Editor:
 William C. Rhoden seems to think that the Knicks can get back to the playoffs if only the league would forgive their enormous salary-cap burden. But what guarantee is there that the current management could successfully recover if this happened? James Dolan has not had any success as an owner in New York, and Isiah Thomas's resume is mixed at best. Why doesn't Rhoden ask David Stern for a, say, 12-point spot for the Knicks in every game? That would probably get them into the playoffs. Richard Attanasio Cortlandt Manor, N.Y. To the Sports Editor:
 William C. Rhoden can't be serious when he suggests that the N.B.A. allow four of the Knicks' player contracts not to count against the salary cap. This is like justifying welfare, food stamps and scholarships for Jim Dolan's youngsters, not because they are poor but because their family's business competence skipped their father's generation.
 It's Rhoden's sense of entitlement that makes many people dislike New Yorkers. Aren't championships something to be earned? The real potential for profit is in the playoffs. If the Knicks get a free pass, another team is eliminated. Did Rhoden suggest similar welfare for the Bulls after Michael Jordan left? What about the Celtics, who have the same bleak prospects as the Knicks for making the playoffs?
 Rhoden does not set any price for a gift to the Knicks. If he were to suggest that as part of the deal, they would have to be sold and the top management would be banned from the N.B.A. for life, then the idea might have some merit. If he suggested that all Knicks playoff revenue would go to the last team eliminated from the playoffs, then maybe one or two people outside New York might listen. Raymond P. Ginther New York 

GRAPHIC: Photo: James L. Dolan has spent a lot of money, but the Knicks still seem a long way from a title. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); BAILOUTS (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%)

PERSON: JAMES L DOLAN (89%); MICHAEL JORDAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



563 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2203 words

HEADLINE: Chaos Is Seen in Iraq Exit, But Experts Split on Degree

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and ALISSA J. RUBIN; Michael R. Gordon reported from Washington, and Alissa J. Rubin from Baghdad. Wissam A. Habeeb contributed reporting from Baghdad, and employees of The New York Times from Tikrit, Mosul, Kirkuk, Basra and Sadr City.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26 

 BODY:
There is one matter on which American military commanders, many Iraqis and some of the Bush administration's staunchest Congressional critics agree: if the United States withdrew its forces from Baghdad's streets this fall, the murder and mayhem would increase. 
 But that is where the agreement ends. The wrangling in Washington over war financing, still fierce despite the Democrats' decision to forgo for now withdrawal deadlines, has obscured a more fundamental debate over what Iraq's future might look like without American troops.
Would the pullback of American forces unleash an even bloodier round of civil conflict that would lead to the implosion of the Iraqi government? Or would it put pressure on Iraqi politicians to finally reconcile their differences? More bluntly: how bad would things get?
 Those questions loom as the administration debates how and when to wind down its troop increase in Iraq, as Iraqis weigh the trade-offs between autonomy and security, and as Congressional Democrats, frustrated by this week's compromise with the White House, vow to hold a tougher line on future war financing. 
 To address the issue, The New York Times interviewed more than 40 Iraqi politicians and citizens and consulted recent surveys of public opinion in Iraq. The views of a broad range of senior military officials, American intelligence experts, politicians and independent analysts who have recently returned from Iraq were also solicited.
 The somewhat surprising verdict of most Iraqis was clear. For all their distaste for the American occupation, many of them fear that a pullback any time soon would lead to a violent chain reaction that would jeopardize the fitful attempts at political dialogue and risk the collapse of the Iraqi government. 
 ''Many militias and terrorist groups are just waiting for the Americans to leave,'' said Salim Abdullah, the spokesman for the Iraqi Accordance Front, the largest Sunni Arab group in the Parliament, who lost two brothers this year to attacks by insurgents. 
 ''This does not mean the presence of American troops in Baghdad is our favorite option,'' he said. ''People in the street say the United States is part of the chaos here and they could have made it better and safer. Still, we need America to make the country more stable and not leave Iraq in the trouble, which they, themselves, have caused.''
 Senior American commanders in Iraq have a similar assessment. A troop drawdown should not occur until security is improved, military commanders say, and even then it should be gradual and carefully engineered. ''There will be a time when we will slowly remove ourselves from the Iraqi forces and allow them to take more and more control,'' said Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the commander of ground forces in Iraq, who has privately recommended that elevated troop levels be maintained through early 2008. ''But this should be done thoughtfully and methodically when conditions permit.''
 If the American forces were reduced too soon, military officials say, the fledgling Iraqi Army and police forces could not hold the line against a rising tide of suicide bomb attacks by insurgent groups like Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia. Shiite militias that had decided to lie low would resume large-scale attacks on Sunni residents. Mixed Sunni and Shiite neighborhoods, already growing scarce, would disappear, and Iraqi forces would fracture along sectarian lines.
 The conditions that need to be achieved before a major troop reduction, General Odierno said, are a reduction in insurgent and militia attacks and an improved ability by Iraqi security forces to protect noncombatants. 
 A sharply divergent view is prevalent in Congress, where lawmakers have pressed, unsuccessfully, to impose a schedule for American troop withdrawal and binding benchmarks for Iraqi political reform. Some leading Democrats acknowledge a risk of increased violence if the United States pulls back, but they assert that the Iraqis will not take the painful steps toward a genuine political accommodation until American forces begin to leave. 
 ''That is the leverage,'' said Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is the chairman of the Armed Services Committee. ''They have got to look into the abyss. And this is the abyss: do they want a civil war, or do they want a nation?'' 
 ''I would begin a troop reduction as an action-forcing mechanism,'' he added. The View From Iraq 
 In trying to stem the violence in Iraq, the Bush administration is expanding the American force in Baghdad. The goal has not been to impose a military solution, but to provide enough security that Iraqis can move toward political reconciliation.
 A National Intelligence Estimate made public in January analyzed the consequences of a complete withdrawal of American troops over 12 to 18 months. The document, which reflects the collective view of the United States intelligence agencies, said that American forces were an essential stabilizing element in Iraq and warned that Iraq's security forces would be hard-pressed to assume significantly expanded responsibilities in that period. No similar intelligence assessment has been made public on what might occur if the United States pulled back from its effort to secure Baghdad several months from now but maintained a limited troop presence at the large bases in and around the capital. 
 But many Iraqis have a view on this question and on the consequences of a total withdrawal. Sheik Ajmi al-Mutashar, an agricultural engineer and businessman from Salahuddin Province in central Iraq and a Sunni, said he worried that an American troop pullback would lead to the collapse of the Iraqi government. ''If the government falls it will be impossible to form another one,'' he said. ''We will have small emirates or cantons divided on sectarian and ethnic lines.'' 
 Several Shiites also agreed that an American pullback would severely weaken the already fragile Iraqi government and lead to a surge of fighting among armed factions. ''Without a strong and visible American presence, the government would collapse,'' said Abu Fayad, an aide to a leading Shiite member of Parliament. ''Of course there will be many different wars. Basra, Diwaniya, Baghdad. Everyone will try to control Iraq's fortune. The Americans failed, but they should stay.''
 Salah Sultan al-Obeidi, 39, a government employee who lives in the Shiite stronghold of Sadr City but says he holds secular views, says he worries that moderate elements of Iraqi society would be even more vulnerable if the Americans were to leave. ''In Baghdad there will be fierce fighting between Sunni and Shiite extremists. Sunni terrorists will kill all the Sunnis who took part in the political process.''
 A recent analysis on Iraqi perceptions of the war by an American expert, Anthony H. Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said most Iraqis did not see the American troops as allies or liberators, but still feared a sudden withdrawal. About 64 percent of Baghdad residents who were polled in late February and early March said American forces should remain until security was restored, until the Iraqi government was stronger or until Iraqi forces could operate independently. Only 36 percent said American troops should leave now, according to the polling data, which was commissioned by ABC News and other news organizations. 
 Iraqis who favor a speedy American departure include those who think the country will stabilize after a flaring of violence and redrawing of sectarian boundaries. Some factions, including many supporters of the anti-American Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, said they believed that they would be better able to bring stability, albeit on their own terms.
 ''I think the Sadr tide will rule the country,'' said Muhammad Qasim Ali, a suitcase salesman in the predominantly Shiite neighborhood of Karada. ''They are the majority and they have a good background, and that gives them a chance to take control. Once we take power, we will be merciful with Sunnis. Our way is to kill somebody only when we suspect he has a link to insurgents.''
 A bare majority of Iraq's 275-member Parliament recently signed a petition promoted by Mr. Sadr that called for a timetable for American troops to depart. Even so, the petition said the Americans should not leave until Iraqi security forces were ready to take over the job. ''Pulling back to bases maybe makes sense,'' said Mansour Abdul Mohsin Abboud, 66, a Shiite tribal sheik who lives in Najaf. ''But leaving, withdrawing completely from Iraq, that means erasing Iraq from the map.'' The View From Washington 
 President Bush has said that a premature withdrawal from Iraq would invite catastrophe there, and that argument has been forcefully embraced by other Republicans, including Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. American military commanders are wary of being drawn into the American political debate over Iraq, but they have warned about the risks in quickly reducing troop levels. 
 In the end, Baghdad would not become an entirely Shiite city. The east, northwest, and southwest areas of Baghdad would likely be Shiite-dominated. But the west-central area of the capital would remain a Sunni stronghold, reinforced by the Sunnis from the nearby areas of Abu Ghraib, Taji, Yusifiya, and from the provinces Anbar and Salahuddin Province. That would set the stage for further conflict. 
 A number of Democratic lawmakers who have pushed for troop withdrawals insisted that forecasts of stepped-up violence were overstated. Representative John P. Murtha, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said that the violence had risen over the past four years despite the presence of American troops, and that the American capacity to control events in Iraq was limited. ''Everybody predicts chaos: I don't predict chaos,'' he said. ''It goes up for a short period and it is not nearly as intense as everybody is predicting.''
 Senator Levin acknowledged a risk that violence could increase if troops began to leave soon, but asserted that such a move would prompt the Iraqis to assume more responsibility for their own security. 
 ''There is risk, but I think the greater risk is not putting pressure on the Iraqis, watching them say that time is not relevant,'' he said. 
 Several specialists who hold out hope for stabilizing Iraq, including Mr. Cordesman, said it was not practical to reduce American troop levels until next year. ''We need to phase out slowly,'' Mr. Cordesman said. ''Most likely, the Iraqi police cannot possibly be ready to take over by this fall. And to pull out of Baghdad will be seen as pulling out of Iraq.''
 ''The people who should say when the U.S. should leave are the Iraqis, not experts and politicians in Washington,'' he added. ''The Iraqis don't have any incentive to have the U.S. stay any longer than necessary, but they also have no incentive to rush events in Iraq to the point where a high-risk situation becomes certain failure.''
 Even some specialists who take a bleak view of trends in Iraq said they doubted that beginning a phased troop withdrawal would prod the Iraqis to reconcile. ''Projecting our hopes onto them does not correspond to anything we know about the way Iraqi politics has worked so far,'' said Steven N. Simon, an aide on the National Security Council during the Clinton administration and the author of a paper that advocates a military disengagement from Iraq.
 Mr. Simon argued that the upheaval that would follow the departure of American troops would stop short of genocide, since Sunni Arabs would have a haven to return to in the western province of Anbar, the Kurds have northern Iraq, and the factions generally lack heavy weapons. He acknowledged that the violent partition of Baghdad neighborhoods was likely, and that there would be sectarian clashes in other cities, but said that there was little the United States could do to stop it if Iraqis were not prepared to compromise.
 ''It will get ugly,'' he said. ''There is no question about it. My argument is that it is unavoidable.''
 Anthony C. Zinni, a retired four-star general who formerly led Central Command, strongly opposed the decision to invade Iraq, fearing that it might lead to sectarian fighting and regional destabilization. But now that American forces have occupied the country, General Zinni fears that a troop withdrawal will compound the instability. The notion that the United States can pressure the Iraqis to take more responsibility for their own security, the general said, was impractical: with Iraqi security forces still not ready, militias would fill the gap. 
 General Zinni said it made sense to keep American forces at current levels for a year or so before gradually reducing troop levels and executing a strategy to try to keep Iraq's instability from spreading. ''When we are in Iraq we are in many ways containing the violence,'' he said. ''If we back off we give it more room to breathe, and it may metastasize in some way and become a regional problem. We don't have to be there at the same force level, but it is a five- to seven-year process to get any reasonable stability in Iraq.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: American soldiers in Latifiya continued to search for two comrades. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times) Chart/Map: ''Voices on an American Withdrawal'' Layla Khazal al-Sudani, 40, the director general of the Ministry of Culture in Baghdad, a Shiite ''Although we criticize some negative behavior by the American troops, I think that their presence at this time is very necessary to back up the Iraqi troops. I prefer the withdrawal to be scheduled and gradual. Otherwise, if they insist on pulling back, the killings will increase, especially sectarian killings.'' Mansour Abdul Mohsin Abboud, 66, a Shiite tribal sheik and farmer from Diwaniya, now living in Najaf ''Pulling back to bases maybe makes sense. But leaving, withdrawing completely from Iraq, that means erasing Iraq from the map. ... If the Americans leave, then those Sunni Arabs will be supplied by what they need. I think civil fighting will start.'' Ahmed Rahman Menshid al-Asi, a prominent Sunni sheik in Kirkuk ''In the first six months after the U.S. withdrawal from Iraq or decreasing its presence in Baghdad, the conflict will be at its peak. There will be stability after that and there will be a role for Iraqi national figures, and Baghdad will witness an end to sectarian violence which was provoked by the occupier.'' Hassan al-Sineid, a close associate of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki and a member of his Shiite Dawa Party ''An American withdrawal before making all arrangements would lead to civil war because we cannot replace the fact of 130,000 American soldiers in Iraq. All the groups will be engaged in a war -- Sunnis, Kurds, Shiites. The neighbors will interfere. It will lead to regional chaos.'' Haidar Sami, 30, an unemployed Sunni Arab living in Salahuddin Province in central Iraq ''Iraq is like a sinking ship, and if I can swim why would I stay on board? I have to find a safe shelter. A wave of migration will take place because fear will spread, especially among the youth who want to save their lives and guarantee their future.'' Gen. David H. Petraeus, the senior American commander in Iraq, on pulling back from the Baghdad security mission in the fall ''My sense is that there would be an increase in sectarian violence, a resumption in sectarian violence, were the presence of our forces and Iraqi forces at that time to be reduced and not to be doing what it is that they are doing right now. ... It can get much, much worse.'' Steven N. Simon, Council on Foreign Relations and author of a report urging a U.S. military disengagement from Iraq ''Without the United States, I see the Shia clearing out more neighborhoods and forcing more Sunnis out. The real bad actions happen locally, and not only around Baghdad. I do not see the Shia uniting and road-marching large formations to Anbar Province and systematically wiping out the Sunnis. Genocide on a national scale is unlikely because the conditions don't obtain. They don't have heavy weapons.'' Representative John P. Murtha, Democrat from Pennsylvania ''I don't know that in the short term you won't have instability. The British were in India for 75 years and they had instability when it was over. ... I am convinced that it won't be any worse than it is now, and if it is worse they will settle it themselves. It is not a matter of what is going to happen. It is going to happen. They better plan for it. ... It is inevitable that we are going to get out.'' National Intelligence Estimate on ''Prospects for Iraq's Stability,'' January 2007 If a rapid withdrawal were to take place, ''We judge that the I.S.F. [Iraqi Security Forces] would be unlikely to survive as a nonsectarian national institution
neighboring countries -- invited by Iraqi factions or unilaterally -- might intervene openly in the conflict
 massive civilian casualties and forced population displacement would be probable.'' Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, retired head of the United States Central Command ''When we are in Iraq we are in many ways containing the violence. If we back off we give it more room to breathe and it may metastasize in some way and become a regional problem. We don't have to be there at the same force level, but it is a five-to-seven year process to get any reasonable stability in Iraq.'' Map of Iraq highlighting the following areas: Baghdad Najaf Kirkuk Salahuddin (pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICS (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (59%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%); RAY ODIERNO (58%); JOHN P MURTHA (58%); DAVID PETRAEUS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (97%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



564 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: Syrian President's Fortunes Revive in Time for Election

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH; Hugh Naylor contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria 

 BODY:
Inside the tent, the trappings of a modern election campaign were on display: jingles playing, flags waving, confetti coating the floor, and posters of President Bashar al-Assad hanging near the stage.
 Outside, however, Syria's realities were evident. Government security officers manhandled anyone trying to come in and blocked reporters from covering the rally, which was financed by one of Syria's most powerful oligarchs. The sparseness of the crowd at the start of the campaign on May 11 hinted at growing fear of the future and apathy about Syrian politics.
Only a year ago, Mr. Assad faced so many troubles that some Syrians began questioning his political survival. His troops had been forced out of Lebanon, his government faced accusations of collusion in the assassination of the former Lebanese prime minister, Rafik Hariri, and the Bush administration had imposed sanctions that affected everything from the fleet of Boeings in Syria's national airline to medical equipment. Waning oil reserves hinted at economic collapse, and the European Union delayed signing a much-needed trade agreement. 
 But as he prepares for a so-called national referendum in which he is certain to be overwhelmingly re-elected for a second seven-year term, Mr. Assad seems very much in control, with his rivals isolated, his critics increasingly in prison or fearing retribution, and international pressure eased. He has consolidated power around his immediate family and rewarded loyalists. And he has continued to reap the benefits of Washington's troubles in the region. In Lebanon, the anti-Syrian March 14 movement, which helped force Syria out, has seen its political fortunes plummet, mired in unrest.
 ''Syria has a great deal of confidence now,'' said Abdel Fattah al-Awad, editor in chief of the government-run newspaper Al Thawra. ''The country is convinced that the major pressures that once faced us have disappeared. We want to offer security -- that's what we offer. The Americans, they offer Iraq, which is chaos.''
 Mr. Assad came to power on a wave of optimism, promising to bring change and to rule differently from his iron-fisted father, Hafez. But as he prepares for another term, Mr. Assad has increasingly begun to emulate his father.
 Political campaigners openly called for change several years ago; today many have landed in prison in a government crackdown on dissent. Others shrink from public life.
 Few Syrians would even speak on the record for this article, fearing government reprisal.
 Mr. Assad once focused his speeches on reform and economic development; now he speaks of security and stability. And though the economy appears to be picking up on the streets of Damascus and other cities, a small group of businessmen close to him have proved to be the main beneficiaries of the improvement. Some foreign investors from the Persian Gulf, encouraged to invest in Syria, have found themselves mired in webs of corruption.
 ''The Bashar of 2000 was a young, new leader who embodied the promise of change,'' said Emile el-Hokayem, a research fellow at The Henry L. Stimson Center in Washington. ''As he prepares for a new term, there is more repression in Syria, a hardening of the regime's stands and little movement on economic reform. Syria's ills are as acute as they were seven years ago.''
 Most of all, Mr. Assad has sought to prove to Syrians that he is a survivor, like his father, who brought stability to Syria under the Baath Party but dominated almost every part of society through a network of informers and the dreaded secret police, the Mukhabarat. The elder Mr. Assad held the country in his grip for 32 years; his authoritarian government helped end Lebanon's bloody civil war but also put its politics and economy under Syrian control. 
 ''We used to say he was not as clever as his father, but now things are different,'' one respected doctor in Damascus said of the younger Mr. Assad. ''I wasn't so confident of him before, but he has gained good experience.''
 Mr. Assad made three critical bets that proved successful, analysts here say. He bet that the American occupation of Iraq would falter, hampered in part by Syria's funneling of militants to Iraq, and that Syria would become a critical part of any effort to stabilize the country. 
 He maintained support for Hezbollah in Lebanon, which, when it survived a war with Israel last year, became a powerful force that could spoil American ambitions in Lebanon and further thrust Syria as a force that must be dealt with. 
 And just as important, he maintained support for Hamas and other Palestinian militant groups, ensuring a Syrian role in any future Israeli-Arab peace effort.
 Syria's alliance with Iran, too, brought needed economic and political support and made Syria a major go-between to Iran. When British marines in southern Iraq were taken hostage by the Iranians, the Syrians played an important part in securing their release.
 Soon, European officials and later American Democratic and Congressional delegations, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, began visiting Damascus, chipping away at the Bush administration's policy of isolation.
 When Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met with her Syrian counterpart, Walid al-Moallem, on the sidelines of an Iraq conference in Egypt on May 3, the Syrians quickly painted the 30-minute meeting as a strategic victory. Though little was discussed, the meeting's symbolism was critical. 
 ''Whoever wants to isolate Syria is in fact isolating himself from the region's issues, because Syria has a rightful role,'' Mr. Assad said in a speech before Parliament on May 10. He said the Bush administration's effort to isolate Syria ''has seen nothing but failure.''
 Critics fear that an emboldened government will become even more repressive and reliant on its security apparatus. After years of tolerating the fractious opposition movement, the government cracked down on opposition figures last year, hoping to turn several into examples, opposition campaigners said.
 On May 13, a court sentenced four, including Michel Kilo, a prominent Syrian writer and columnist, to three years in prison for ''spreading false news, weakening national feeling and inciting sectarian sentiments.'' Mr. Kilo was arrested after signing the so-called ''Beirut-Damascus Declaration'' calling on Syria to respect Lebanon's territorial integrity.
 Two other opposition figures, Suleiman Shummar and Khalil Hussein, were sentenced in absentia to 10 years in prison on similar charges.
 Just a few days earlier a court sentenced Kamal Labawani, a Syrian physician and opposition leader, to 15 years for ''communicating with a foreign country and inciting it to initiate aggression against Syria'' after he met with Bush officials in Washington. And in April, a court sentenced human rights lawyer Anwar al-Bunni to five years, also for ''spreading false news'' about Syria.
 Six prominent government critics and human rights campaigners have been convicted and given heavy sentences over the past month in open criminal proceedings attended by foreign diplomats; numerous low-profile ones have been convicted as well. They all languish together with hundreds of other political prisoners still in Syrian prisons.
 The government still has much to fear. Despite Syrian efforts to stymie the establishment of a United Nations-backed tribunal in Lebanon to try suspects connected to the assassination of Mr. Hariri, deliberations about the court continue. The Syrians fear the tribunal could call on senior government figures to testify or worse, indict them.
 Lebanon's prime minister, Fouad Siniora, has requested that the United Nations Security Council proceed to create the tribunal despite objections from Lebanon's opposition, which has refused to hold a session of Parliament to vote on a Lebanese plan to establish the court.
 [The United Nations has continued deliberations on a resolution forming the tribunal. In a visit to Beirut on May 22, Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said France was ''determined'' to establish the tribunal, squelching hopes that the new government of President Nicolas Sarkozy would be more lenient on Syria than that of Jacques Chirac.]
 Saudi Arabia, which has sought to broker a deal over the tribunal, has increasingly grown impatient with the Syrians for refusing to cooperate. A rapprochement between Mr. Assad and King Abdullah during the Arab League summit meeting in the Saudi capital, Riyadh, in March has so far produced few tangible results, Saudi analysts say. 
 In a recent speech, Mr. Assad vowed not to cooperate with the tribunal if it violated Syria's sovereignty. ''The abandonment of sovereignty means that Syrian law no longer protects Syrian citizens,'' he said.
 But the government has also been under pressure to show some form of change domestically. A successful boycott of last month's parliamentary elections, fueled by political apathy, resulted in low turnout that both embarrassed the government and put the legitimacy of the body in question, analysts say. Mr. Assad's allies intend to make sure that is not repeated in the national referendum. 
 Meanwhile, a continuing flood of Iraqi refugees into the country has also placed strains on Syria's economy, costing up to $2 billion per year in subsidies and expenses.
 Many expect the referendum to be a turning point, but they differ on its direction. Some hope that Mr. Assad will begin changes and pardon the imprisoned advocates of change; others fear the referendum will further embolden the government to take an even tougher line domestically and cement its position. 
 ''The regime has total power in the country,'' said Riad Seif, a former member of Parliament and an opposition figure. ''It controls the economy, the Ministry of Information, and it has hundreds of thousands of secret police. They can use all these tools to achieve their goals.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A poster of Mr. Assad, who rose to power promising a more open society. His touch has grown harsher, and he seems very much in control.
 A sparse crowd of Syrians gathered for the kickoff party of President Bashar al-Assad's re-election campaign on May 11 in Damascus, Syria. (Photographs by John Wreford for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); AIRLINES (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%) INDIAN OCEAN (70%) SYRIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (93%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (70%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



565 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: 'Sicko,' Castro and the '120 Years Club'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
CUBA works hard to jam American TV signals and keep out decadent Hollywood films. But it's a good bet that Fidel Castro's government will turn a blind eye to bootleg copies of ''Sicko,'' Michael Moore's newest movie, if they show up on the streets of Havana. 
 ''Sicko,'' the talk of the Cannes Film Festival last week, savages the American health care system -- and along the way extols Cuba's system as the neatest thing since the white linen guayabera. 
Mr. Moore transports a handful of sick Americans to Cuba for treatment in the course of the film, which is scheduled to open in the United States next month, and he is apparently dumbfounded that they could get there what they couldn't get here. 
 ''There's a reason Cubans live on average longer than we do,'' he told Time magazine. ''I'm not trumpeting Castro or his regime. I just want to say to fellow Americans, 'C'mon, we're the United States. If they can do this, we can do it.' '' 
 But hold on. Do they do it? Live longer than, or even as long as, we do? How could a poor developing country -- where annual health care spending averages just $230 a person compared with $6,096 in the United States -- come anywhere near matching the richest country in the world?
 Statistics from the World Health Organization, the C.I.A. and other sources all show that the people of Cuba and the United States have about the same life expectancy -- 77 years, give or take a few months -- while infant mortality in Cuba is significantly lower than in the United States. 
 Of course, many people regard any figures about Cuba as at least partly fiction. But even if the longevity statistics are correct, they are open to interpretation. Carmelo Mesa-Lago, a professor emeritus of economics at the University of Pittsburgh, said statistics also show that Cuba has a high rate of abortion, which can lower infant mortality rates and improve life expectancy figures. The constant flow of refugees also may affect longevity figures, since those births are recorded but the deaths are not.
 Despite such skepticism, many medical experts say they do believe that average Cubans can live as long as Americans, and the reason may lie in a combination of what Cuba does well and the United States does poorly, if at all. 
 Dr. Robert N. Butler, president of the International Longevity Center in New York and a Pulitzer Prize-winning author on aging, has traveled to Cuba to see firsthand how doctors are trained. He said a principal reason that some health standards in Cuba approach the high American level is that the Cuban system emphasizes early intervention. Clinic visits are free, and the focus is on preventing disease rather than treating it. 
 Dr. Butler said some of Cuba's shortcomings may actually improve its health profile. ''Because they don't have up-to-date cars, they tend to have to exercise more by walking,'' he said. ''And they may not have a surfeit of food, which keeps them from problems like obesity, but they're not starving, either.'' 
 Cuban markets are not always well stocked, but city streets are dotted with hot dog and ice cream vendors. Bellies are full, but such food can cause problems in the future, as they have in the United States. 
 Dr. Butler has just completed a study that shows it is possible that because of the epidemic of obesity in children, ''this may be the first generation of Americans to live less long than their parents.'' 
 There could be one great leveler for Cubans and Americans. While all Cubans have at least minimal free access to doctors, more than 45 million Americans lack basic health insurance. Many are reluctant to seek early treatment they cannot afford, Dr. Butler said. Instead, they wait to be admitted to an emergency room. 
 ''I know Americans tend to be skeptical,'' he said, ''but health and education are two achievements of the Cuban revolution, and they deserve some credit despite the government's poor record on human rights.'' 
 Universal health care has long given the Cuban regime bragging rights, though there is growing concern about the future. In the decades that Cuba drew financial and military support from the Soviet Union, Mr. Castro poured resources into medical education, creating the largest medical school in Latin America and turning out thousands of doctors to practice around the world. 
 But that changed after the collapse of the Soviets, according to Cuban defectors like Dr. Leonel Cordova. By the time Dr. Cordova started practicing in 1992, equipment and drugs were already becoming scarce. He said he was assigned to a four-block neighborhood in Havana Province where he was supposed to care for about 600 people.
 ''But even if I diagnosed something simple like bronchitis,'' he said, ''I couldn't write a prescription for antibiotics, because there were none.'' 
 He defected in 2000 while on a medical mission in Zimbabwe and made his way to the United States. He is now an urgent-care physician at Baptist Hospital in Miami.
 Having practiced medicine in both Cuba and the United States, Dr. Cordova has an unusual perspective for comparison. 
 ''Actually there are three systems,'' Dr. Cordova said, because Cuba has two: one is for party officials and foreigners like those Mr. Moore brought to Havana. ''It is as good as this one here, with all the resources, the best doctors, the best medicines, and nobody pays a cent,'' he said. 
 But for the 11 million ordinary Cubans, hospitals are often ill equipped and patients ''have to bring their own food, soap, sheets -- they have to bring everything.'' And up to 20,000 Cuban doctors may be working in Venezuela, creating a shortage in Cuba. 
 Still Cuban officials assert that free health care, a variety of sports programs, a healthy, if limited, diet and cultural activities have kept enough Cubans healthy enough well into old age to warrant starting the 120 Years Club, which enrolls people who are 80 and older and strives to help them reach an even riper old age. 
 Until he had to have emergency surgery last year, Fidel Castro -- who turned 80 this year -- was considered a model of vibrant long life in Cuba. But it was only last week that he acknowledged in an open letter that his initial surgery by Cuban doctors had been botched. He did not confirm, however, that a specialist had been flown in from Spain last December to help set things right. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Doctor Might Be In -- Cubans young and old at a Havana clinic in 2004. (Photo by Sven Creutzmann/Polaris) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (88%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (86%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); WRITERS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); FESTIVALS (71%); INFANT MORTALITY (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



566 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: With Help, Could Ethanol Be the Next Internet?

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
FROM New York to Washington, government suddenly seems to be in the business of promoting alternative energy. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York announced last week that the city's taxi fleet would convert to hybrids by 2012. In this year's State of the Union address, President Bush called for the nation to replace 20 percent of gasoline use with ethanol in 10 years.
 The government talk is being backed by action and policy. The federal government offers a 51-cent-a-gallon tax credit to ethanol producers and maintains a 54-cent-a-gallon tariff on ethanol imported from Brazil. More than 20 states have so-called renewable portfolio standards, which mandate that utilities derive a fixed percentage of their power from renewable sources. 
The private sector is responding with alacrity, ramping up the construction of wind farms, solar arrays and ethanol plants. The Renewable Fuels Association, a trade association based in Washington for the ethanol industry, said that the 85 ethanol projects now under construction would more than double the existing capacity of six billion gallons a year by the end of 2008. Many of the same venture capitalists who financed promising California-based Internet companies in the 1990s are now financing promising California-based alternative energy start-ups. 
 ''There's a huge boom going on in alternative renewable and new technologies, and it wouldn't be happening without the bouillabaisse of incentives, mandates, subsidies and the related group of ingredients,'' said Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates.
 Booms have a way of turning into bubbles, of course, especially when venture capitalists tap into hot areas. Is the government encouraging an alternative energy bubble? And if it is, is that such a bad thing?
 The subsidies and mandates seem like a clear-cut case of market distortion. And the economic case against them is simple. 
 ''We think a reliance on market forces is the best way to satisfy any growing fuel requirements, and that any policies should provide a level playing field for all options,'' said Rayola Dougher, senior economic analyst at the American Petroleum Institute in Washington, who adds that many of the trade association's members are responding to government incentives by investing in projects to harness solar, wind and other forms of alternative energy. ''We just don't think at this point that the government should pick winners and losers.''
 Of course, government, through various industrial policies, has long encouraged the private sector to invest in new technologies. Congress commissioned the first telegraph line in the 1840s, gave railroads millions of acres of land to build rail networks and financed the research that led to the creation of the Internet. 
 ''I equate the government support of ethanol to the government electrifying rural America or helping build the transcontinental railroads,'' said Matt Hartwig, communications director at the Renewable Fuels Association. ''The government helped set it up, and once it was there, the private sector took it over.'' 
 Some experts say they believe the government should encourage alternative energy because the playing field is far from level. ''The whole alternative energy sector is still an infant industry and competing against a well-established, well-capitalized petroleum industry,'' said John M. Urbanchuk, a director at the consulting firm LECG, based in Wayne, Pa. 
 Because solar and wind technologies are very much niche technologies, ''it would be hard for them to get into the market without a mandate,'' said Michael Toman, senior economist at the RAND Corporation, which has produced a study suggesting that the United States could get 25 percent of its energy from renewable sources by 2025.
 State-mandated standards for the use of alternative energy can help create a market by forcing utilities to make long-term contracts for the purchase of, say, wind-generated power. ''If an investment group has a 20-year contract to supply a utility with wind-generated electricity, it's much easier for them to set up the financing,'' said William B. Marcus, the principal economist at JBS Energy, a consulting firm based in West Sacramento, Calif.
 The main criticism of alternative energy is that, even with government assistance, it is still more expensive than many traditional sources of energy. But advocates argue that simply comparing the cost of generating electricity by burning coal with the cost of generating electricity by capturing the sun's rays misses the point.
 Energy use imposes other social costs -- what economists call negative externalities -- that are hard to quantify. For instance, using gasoline instead of ethanol means that the United States exports dollars to unfriendly governments like Venezuela's. 
 At the same time, a recent report by Barclays Capital suggested that the push for biofuels is leading companies to hold back on building new oil refining capacity. The lack of spare refining capacity is one factor responsible for the high price of gasoline.
 Increasingly, however, businesses and consumers are finding that alternative energy and new energy-efficiency technologies can pay real economic dividends. Mr. Bloomberg said that a taxi driver could save thousands of dollars by driving a hybrid. Given the long-term trends of declining domestic crude oil production and rising demand for gasoline, ''the economics get more favorable for producing renewable fuel every day,'' even if government support were to decline, said Fred Seamon, senior economist at the Chicago Board of Trade.
 Of course, history teaches that bubbles can leave behind a great deal of useful commercial infrastructure and innovation. Companies like Global Crossing and WorldCom may have failed horrifically, but the fiber-optic cable they laid helped companies like Google. Many ethanol plants and solar-panel makers may fail as investments, but their innovations could benefit the economy.
 Another important thing happens during these outbursts of investor enthusiasm. Money spent on hype and promotion builds public consciousness and spurs consumer demand. That's already starting to happen as utility customers sign up for green power and Wal-Mart pitches compact fluorescent light bulbs by the millions. 
 More people whose careers have nothing to do with the vast energy industry are thinking about carbon emissions. 
 ''I was at my doctor, and we spent half the time talking about her new hybrid,'' Mr. Yergin said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Illinois River Energy recently opened an ethanol plant in Rochelle, Ill. The company was founded in 2002 by a group of farmers. It uses corn from Illinois to make ethanol. (Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images)
 Yahoo donated 10 Ford Escape hybrids to a fleet operator as part of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan to convert New York's taxi fleet to an all-hybrid system by 2012. (Photo by Stan Honda/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (93%); BIOFUELS (92%); ALCOHOLS (92%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (87%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (73%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (50%)

COMPANY: THE RELATED GROUP (66%); IHS INC (66%)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (66%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (66%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007



567 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Millions of Addresses and Thousands of Sites, All Leading to One

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
THINK you have a good handle on the Internet economy? Try this one.
 What Internet business has raised $120 million in financing in the last year, owns 725,000 Web sites, and has as its chief executive the former head of Primedia and International Data Group?
If you guessed NameMedia, a privately held owner and developer of Web sites based in Waltham, Mass., you take the prize. Otherwise, consider reading on. 
 According to Kelly P. Conlin, the chief executive of NameMedia, the company's business is best seen as an online property developer. 
 ''What we've wanted to do, quietly, is amass the largest real estate position on the Internet, which we feel we have,'' Mr. Conlin said. 
 Some of those properties, he said, are the equivalent of ''oceanfront'' sites, or high-value addresses like Photography.com or DailyHoroscope.com that NameMedia will populate with relevant editorial content. Those who type in any of NameMedia's other 6,000 or so photography-related Internet addresses, like photographyproducts.com, will land on Photography.com.
 The business is a far cry from the days of cybersquatting, where speculators bought up names of businesses to which they had no legitimate claim, but it does represent a vindication of sorts for many who bought hundreds or thousands of random Web address names on the hope that one day they would be worth something.
 Analysts suggest that NameMedia and its competitors could represent the next wave of Internet initial public offerings, while also providing a peek at a significant change in what people see when they stumble onto obscure Web properties.
 Behind this suddenly active business category -- which includes companies like iREIT in Houston, Marchex in Seattle, and Demand Media in Santa Monica, Calif. -- is the recognition that not all Internet users turn to a search engine when they are confused about where to find something online. Rather, 5 percent to 10 percent of people will simply type in a name that sounds as if it might suit their needs.
 The so-called direct search or direct navigation approach is seldom fruitful for users, nor has it been particularly profitable for owners of the sites that they visit. An obscure Web address may have four or so visitors a month, and perhaps half will click on an ad. 
 ''But if you have hundreds of thousands of those, it adds up,'' Mr. Conlin said. ''It's an inside-out way of creating volume.''
 Mr. Conlin said that the properties in his portfolio, which includes about 1.4 million Internet addresses that independent owners have placed on NameMedia's network of sites, attracts about 60 million monthly visitors. NameMedia will choose which ads to place on those sites, and will collect some of the revenue.
 For other sites not likely to be sought by hobbyists, like CellularPlans.com or CareerGuide.com, NameMedia fills the home page with links that users would otherwise see if they typed the same search Web address into a Yahoo or Google search box. The search engines pay NameMedia a commission whenever someone clicks on the links.
 NameMedia, which began in 1999 as YesDirect, was reintroduced in May 2006 with an undisclosed amount of equity financing from Highland Capital Partners and Summit Partners, two Boston venture capital groups, and more than $100 million in debt financing from Goldman Sachs. The company used part of that money to buy the portfolios of dozens of domain-name consolidators.
 To decide which of those sites to develop and which to fill with search engine ads, NameMedia hired Hugh O'Neill, who previously oversaw $30 billion worth of financial derivatives for Sun Life Financial. Mr. O'Neill uses, among other things, the expected number of clicks and the value of the ads in a category to calculate the future value of a domain name.
 If a prospective buyer is interested in a site that appears on NameMedia's network, the transaction is conducted on one of the company's marketplace sites, like BuyDomains.com or Afternic.com, and NameMedia collects a commission. 
 So far the company's strategy is paying off, Mr. Conlin said, with company revenue doubling last year, to $60 million.
 Youssef Squali, an analyst with the investment firm Jefferies & Company, said NameMedia faces stiff competition, ''but I see these guys as the front-runner.'' Among other things, Mr. Squali said the profit margin at NameMedia was 40 percent -- a number that other industry executives said fairly represents the category over all. 
 ''They're paying nothing to acquire a customer,'' he said. ''I think the next wave of I.P.O.'s will be around this area.'' 
 The direct navigation market attracted more than $800 million in ads last year, which publishers largely shared with Google and Yahoo. That figure could reach $1.1 billion in 2007, said Jordan Rohan, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets.
 Site owners understand they can earn more ad dollars if their sites display more than text ads. The question, however, is how to fill the more valuable sites with content without hiring teams of writers, video producers or others.
 Executives have found interesting workarounds. Marchex, for instance, will reintroduce in June its roughly 100,000 sites, using proprietary technology that automatically pulls relevant content from sites outside the Marchex network, and shares with those sites any ad revenues that result. Marchex also announced that the Latin American Channels division of Fox Broadcasting would provide videos for more than 100 Spanish-language sites in the Marchex network.
 IREIT, likewise, recently struck a deal with RealNetworks to distribute that company's online games on its game-related Web sites. According to Craig Snyder, the chief executive of iREIT, online publishers are happy to find a way to distribute their content to more people, and thereby increase their revenues. 
 ''It's become harder and harder for them to gain audience share,'' he said.
 NameMedia recently finished building technology where visitors to niche sites -- say, one on 1957 Mustangs -- will be presented with links to other sites with similar images. The links will be between sites within the NameMedia network, but Mr. Conlin said that an unnamed Internet photo-sharing service with more than five million monthly users would soon join.
 ''It'll be a thinking person's social network,'' Mr. Conlin said. ''The community becomes the content.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 31, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An E-Commerce Report in Business Day on Monday about a new breed of Web site developers, and the use of niche sites like one on Ford Mustangs, misstated the year that the Mustang was available. It was introduced in 1964; it was not available in 1957.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kelly P. Conlin of NameMedia, a company that has attracted millions of dollars in venture capital money. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); DOMAIN NAMES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); LAND SUBDIVISION (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CYBERCRIME (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (65%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (64%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (58%); MARCHEX INC (53%)

TICKER: MCHX (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007



568 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Sometimes It's Over Even When It Ain't

BYLINE: By DAVE ANDERSON

 BODY:
Without realizing it, about half a century ago Yogi Berra, baseball's old philosopher, described the perilous situation of these Yankees. Asked about the shadows in left field at Yankee Stadium when all World Series games were played in the afternoon, he shrugged. 
 ''It gets late early out there,'' he grunted. 
And as the Yankees struggle to qualify for the American League playoffs for the 13th consecutive year, it's already late early. Maybe too late. With a 21-27 record, they are 12 1/2 games behind the Red Sox in the East and the season isn't even one-third over.
 Optimists point out that there is still a lot of time left in the season, but realists counter that the Yankees have yet to show the overall consistency required to turn around what Joe Torre acknowledged to be ''the toughest'' slump of his 12 seasons as the Yankees' manager.
 In a semantic twist to Yogi's line, after yesterday's 4-3 loss to the Angels at the Stadium, Torre said, ''We've been bad early in other years, but not this late.''
 Not as late as Memorial Day and not only after having been swept by the Angels, but after having lost 7 of their past 10 games and 10 of their past 16.
 As if that's not bad enough and late early enough, the Yankees go on the road for 10 games beginning tonight in Toronto. After three games with the Blue Jays, they go to Boston for a three-game weekend series and then to Chicago for four games before returning to the Stadium for interleague games against the Pirates, the Diamondbacks and the Mets.
 By then, maybe they'll be on a roll. Then again, maybe not. They've won as many as three in a row only twice this season, series sweeps of the Indians and the Rangers.
 ''We've been spinning our wheels,'' Torre said. ''You spend your time wondering what piece of the puzzle to move around and what to say to the young players who have never been through something like this.''
 Torre recalled going through something like this as manager of the Braves (and as the National League manager of the year) in 1982, when Atlanta finished first in the West.
 ''We won our first 13, then lost five in a row,'' he said. ''Later on we lost 19 of 21, then won 13 of 15. That 13 of 15 started the day I scratched Pascual Perez as the starter because he couldn't find the right exit for the ballpark off the interstate. He ran out of gas and had to borrow money for gas because he didn't have his wallet. I started Phil Niekro instead, and he got us going on that 13 of 15.''
 And if the Yankees are to make a run for even the wild card, they're going to need winning streaks similar to what those Braves had.
 Although the Cardinals salvaged the N.L. wild card last year with only 83 victories and went on to win the World Series, the A.L. wild card team in recent seasons has usually had victories in the low 90s -- the number that Mike Mussina figured the Yankees would need to earn the wild card.
 ''To get there, we'd have to go, say, 72-42 from now, 30 games over .500,'' Mussina said. ''That'd make us 93-69, and that might make it.''
 Mussina figured those numbers in his head so quickly, had he been a math major at Stanford? ''No, economics,'' he said. ''That's close.''
 Mussina was close to improving his record to 3-3 this season when he departed in the seventh inning yesterday after a one-out walk to Casey Kotchman, but the right-hander Scott Proctor couldn't protect a 2-1 lead.
 After giving up a line-drive double to Howie Kendrick, Proctor walked three consecutive batters, forcing in two runs before Reggie Willits's sacrifice fly against Brian Bruney produced the decisive run.
 The Yankees rallied in the ninth on Bobby Abreu's walk, Jorge Posada's pinch-hit single, Johnny Damon's pinch-hit groundout and Melky Cabrera's sacrifice fly, but with Posada on third with the potential tying run, Angels reliever Francisco Rodriguez got Derek Jeter to fly out.
 And so the Yankees, who had taken two of three from the Red Sox earlier in the week, were swept by the Angels, the West Division leaders.
 Was Jeter, the captain, starting to worry that the Yankees were on a treadmill, or that it was already too late for them to make much of a move in the standings?
 ''I don't sit around and worry,'' Jeter said. ''If you go into a game worried, that's when you're in trouble. Too late -- that doesn't enter your mind. It's hard enough to play this game, much less think about that. You have to string together a few games. You can't sprinkle one game here and there.''
 But in only sprinkling one game here and there, it's getting late early for these Yankees. Maybe too late. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Four Yankees surrounded Orlando Cabrera's fly ball behind second base in the sixth. The ball wound up in the glove of Melky Cabrera, right.
 Joe Torre's team is in fourth place in the A.L. East, 12 1/2 games behind the Red Sox. The Yankees trail seven teams in the wild-card race. (Photographs by Barton Silverman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPORTS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); SPORTS AWARDS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (83%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (82%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (77%); BOSTON, MA, USA (57%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (54%) GEORGIA, USA (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%) UNITED STATES (77%); CANADA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007



569 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Biodiesel Makers See Opening in City's Green Plans

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

 BODY:
On an industrial strip of land hemming Newtown Creek, pipelines snake low to the ground, connecting an array of giant beige oil tanks. 
 From outward appearances, this little patch of Texas in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, would not seem to easily fit into Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan for a greener, less petroleum-dependent future.
But this fuel terminal may soon be home to one of the largest biodiesel fuel manufacturing plants in the country. The terminal's owner, the Metro Fuel Oil Corporation, is awaiting city approval to produce 110 million gallons of fuel a year from raw vegetable oils. The output would amount to more than 40 percent of the biodiesel fuel produced in the country last year.
 The Greenpoint plant and a smaller proposed plant in Red Hook, Brooklyn, both scheduled to open next year, would be the first biodiesel refineries in the city, hitching onto an industry that has been concentrated in the Midwest and the South. 
 The growth and eastward expansion of the industry are being driven by high petroleum prices and government programs aimed at reducing pollution and demand for foreign oil. But these changes are also creating concerns that the push for alternative fuels, if not managed carefully, could have unintended consequences like deforestation and higher food prices in the race to convert more land for fuel crop production. 
 ''We have to pick the right policies and the best technologies,'' said Ron Pernick, co-founder of Clean Edge, a Portland, Ore., research and consulting company. ''But when done right, the move to biofuels addresses a number of issues, from the volatile prices of fossil fuels, to reliance on foreign supplies, to climate change, to job creation.''
 Metro, a family-owned company that employs about 130 people (another 35 would come on when biodiesel production begins, officials say), added biodiesel fuel to its traditional petroleum line about two years ago, trucking it in from out of state. 
 As oil prices spiked last summer, soaring to $78 a barrel, the demand for alternative fuels like biodiesel shot up. ''You just couldn't get enough of it,'' said Tom Torre, the company's chief operating officer. He and the company's owners, Paul J. and Gene V. Pullo, envisioned barges steaming up the East River loaded with soybean oil from crushing plants in Maryland and Pennsylvania. 
 ''The cost factors were there,'' Mr. Torre said. ''And we thought, 'You know, we could put a plant right here in the city.' '' 
 Supporters of biodiesel fuel say it is attractive because it comes from renewable sources, like soybeans, palm and seed oils and animal fats. It emits fewer greenhouse gases, which are linked to rising global temperatures, and less particulate matter than conventional diesel. Typically blended with conventional diesel, it can be used in most diesel engines and oil furnaces with little or no adjustment. On the downside, it typically costs more than regular diesel fuel. 
 Tri-State Biodiesel, the other New York operator scheduled to begin production next year, plans to use recycled restaurant grease as its feed source, said Brent Baker, the company's chief executive. The company is awaiting state and city permits to begin producing 3 million gallons of biodiesel a year on an industrial site in Red Hook. Mr. Baker said he had agreements with some 400 restaurants in Manhattan to collect their used grease at no cost. 
 Oil refineries once crowded the banks of Newtown Creek in Greenpoint, belching smoke and noxious fumes until the last of them closed in the 1960s. Left behind was a terrain and waterway so contaminated that lawsuits over their cleanup continue to this day. 
 By contrast, biodiesel fuel makers say their production methods are vastly cleaner, and safer. The refining process is emission-free, typically mixing raw vegetable oil with an industrial alcohol like methanol and a catalyst, typically sodium hydroxide, to cause a chemical transformation. The byproducts include some methanol, which can be reused, and glycerin, which can be sold for use in soap and other products. 
 While the process is not entirely benign -- the methanol is explosive -- the National Biodiesel Board, a trade group, says biodiesel is no more toxic than table salt and biodegrades faster than sugar.
 Community response for the Red Hook plant has been largely supportive, according to Tri-State. Fewer know about the plans for the Greenpoint plant, said Gerald A. Esposito, district manager of Community Board 1.
 ''The board hasn't taken a position on it, but I'm kind of excited about it,'' Mr. Esposito said. ''It'll bring jobs, and from what I understand there's no odor; if there's anything that spills it would be negligible.'' 
 With plans for the New York refineries under way and others popping up or planned in New Jersey, Washington State and elsewhere, production of biodiesel could reach 1.7 billion gallons next year, up from 250 million gallons in 2006, according to the National Biodiesel Board.
 While biodiesel is mainly used in transportation, Paul Nazzarro, a consultant with the biodiesel board, sees home heating as the next big growth sector, particularly in the Northeast, where heating oil has lost customers to natural gas. 
 Still, Mr. Torre and Mr. Baker say building a New York market will be a challenge, heightened by the price difference and the unfamiliarity of the product. And diesel cars do not meet New York State emissions standards. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's environmental sustainability plan could help build the market, city officials say. Called PlaNYC, it includes a raft of measures, including the use of alternative fuels like biodiesel. 
 ''By introducing things in New York, or by doing them ourselves or giving incentives, we also create a market,'' said Daniel L. Doctoroff, deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding. ''When you create a market, the price comes down, and as price comes down more people use the product, so you create a virtuous cycle.'' 
 Elements of the plan call for eventually using biodiesel in school boilers, and in the city's entire heavy-duty truck fleet, numbering in the thousands of vehicles. The city's Parks and Recreation and Sanitation Departments are already using it. 
 The state requires a biodiesel content of at least 2 percent in the fuel used in all of its buildings and trucks. And last year, lawmakers in Albany enacted a tax credit that pays people up to 20 cents per gallon if they blend biodiesel fuel with home heating oil in their furnaces. 
 But as the biofuels market broadens, some industry watchers say there are downsides. Environmentalists warn of forests being razed, as is happening in Brazil, Indonesia and Malaysia, to clear land for palm oil plantations used in biodiesel and sugar cane used in ethanol. 
 Some also worry that farmers may devote more land to fuel crops and less to crops meant to feed people and cattle, driving up prices of vegetables and meats. 
 Janet Larsen, research director for the Earth Policy Institute, an environmental group, says the amount of grain it takes to fill a sport utility vehicle's 25-gallon tank with ethanol would feed a person for a year. 
 ''Turning food crops into fuel crops does not make sense, economically or for the environment,'' she said. 
 Mr. Baker says the concerns highlight the need for more fuel-efficient vehicles, and more research into resources like algae, which can yield more oil per acre than soybeans. 
 ''I think anyone who looks into the question of sustainability will hear again and again that there is no silver bullet,'' Mr. Baker said. ''We have to be more efficient, we have to use less and we have toget more renewable fuels with fewer acres.'' 

GRAPHIC: Map of Brooklyn shows surrounding area: Plans for two biodiesel fuel refineries are under way in Brooklyn. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (94%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); DIESEL FUEL (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BIOMASS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); FOOD PRICES (75%); PARTICULATE MATTER (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); AGRICULTURE (70%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); CLIMATOLOGY (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); DEFORESTATION (65%); GLOBAL WARMING (63%); JOB CREATION (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%); MARYLAND, USA (75%); MIDWEST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007



570 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3996 words

HEADLINE: Lifesaving Opportunities Missed, Before and After Stroke

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Dr. Diana Fite, a 53-year-old emergency medicine specialist in Houston, knew her blood pressure readings had been dangerously high for five years. But she convinced herself that those measurements, about 200 over 120, did not reflect her actual blood pressure. Anyway, she was too young to take medication. She would worry about her blood pressure when she got older. 
 Then, at 9:30 the morning of June 7, Dr. Fite was driving, steering with her right hand, holding her cellphone in her left, when, for a split second, the right side of her body felt weak. ''I said: 'This is silly, it's my imagination. I've been working too hard.' ''
 Suddenly, her car began to swerve. 
 ''I realized I had no strength whatsoever in my right hand that was holding the wheel,'' Dr. Fite said. ''And my right foot was dead. I could not get it off the gas pedal.'' 
 She dropped the cellphone, grabbed the steering wheel with her left hand, and steered the car into a parking lot. Then she used her left foot to pry her right foot off the accelerator. She pulled down the visor to look in the mirror. The right side of her face was paralyzed. 
 With great difficulty, Dr. Fite twisted her body and grasped her cellphone. 
 ''I called 911, but nothing would come out of my mouth,'' she said. Then she found that if she spoke very slowly, she could get out words. So, she recalled, ''I said 'stroke' in this long, horrible voice.''
 Dr. Fite is one of an estimated 700,000 Americans who had a stroke last year, but one of the very few who ended up at a hospital with the equipment and expertise to accurately diagnose and treat it.
 Stroke is the third-leading cause of death in this country, behind heart disease and cancer, killing 150,000 Americans a year, leaving many more permanently disabled, and costing the nation $62.7 billion in direct and indirect costs, according to the American Stroke Association.
 But from diagnosis to treatment to rehabilitation to preventing it altogether, a stroke is a litany of missed opportunities. 
 Many patients with stroke symptoms are examined by emergency room doctors who are uncomfortable deciding whether the patient is really having a stroke -- a blockage or rupture of a blood vessel in the brain that injures or kills brain cells -- or is suffering from another condition. Doctors are therefore reluctant to give the only drug shown to make a real difference, tPA, or tissue plasminogen activator. 
 Many hospitals say they cannot afford to have neurologists on call to diagnose strokes, and cannot afford to have M.R.I. scanners, the most accurate way to diagnose strokes, for the emergency room. 
 Although tPA was shown in 1996 to save lives and prevent brain damage, and although the drug could help half of all stroke patients, only 3 percent to 4 percent receive it. Most patients, denying or failing to appreciate their symptoms, wait too long to seek help -- tPA must be given within three hours. And even when patients call 911 promptly, most hospitals, often uncertain about stroke diagnoses, do not provide the drug. 
 ''I label this a national tragedy or a national embarrassment,'' said Dr. Mark J. Alberts, a neurology professor at the Feinberg School of Medicine at Northwestern University. ''I know of no disease that is as common or as serious as stroke and where you basically have one therapy and it's only used in 3 to 4 percent of patients. That's like saying you only treat 3 to 4 percent of patients with bacterial pneumonia with antibiotics.'' 
 And the strokes in the statistics are only the beginning. For every stroke that doctors know about, there are 5 to 10 tiny, silent strokes, said Dr. Vladimir Hachinski, the editor of the journal Stroke and a neurologist at the London Health Sciences Centre in Ontario. 
 ''They are only silent because we don't ask questions,'' Dr. Hachinski said. ''They do not involve memory, but they involve judgment, planning ahead, shifting your attention from one thing to another. And they also may involve late-life depression.''
 They are also warning signs that a much larger stroke may be on the way.
 Most strokes would never happen if people took simple measures like controlling their blood pressure. Few do. Many say they forget to take medication; others, like Dr. Fite, decide not to. Some have no idea they need the drugs.
 Still, there is much more hope now, said Dr. Ralph L. Sacco, professor and chairman of neurology at the Miller School of Medicine at the University of Miami. Like most stroke neurologists, Dr. Sacco entered the field more than a decade ago, when little could be done for such patients.
 Now, Dr. Sacco said, there is a device, an M.R.I. scanner, that greatly improves diagnosis, there is a treatment that works and there are others being tested. ''Medical systems have to catch up to the research,'' he said. 
 In medicine, Dr. Sacco said, ''stroke is a new frontier.'' Promise Unfulfilled 
 One Tuesday morning in March, Dr. Steven Warach, chief of the stroke program at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, met with a team from Washington Hospital Center, the largest private hospital in Washington, to review M.R.I. scans of recently admitted patients. They were joined in a teleconference by neurologists at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md., the only other stroke center in the Washington and suburban Maryland area. 
 The images were mementos of suffering. 
 There was a 66-year-old woman with a stroke so big the scan actually showed degenerating fibers that carry nerve signals across the brain. 
 There was a 75-year-old who had trouble moving her right arm and right side in the recovery room after heart surgery. At first doctors thought she was just slow to wake up from the anesthesia. Now, though, it was clear she had suffered a stroke. She had lost the right half of her vision in both eyes and her right side was weak. 
 There was an 88-year-old who slumped forward at lunch, losing consciousness. When he came to, he had trouble forming words. 
 There was a middle-age man whose stroke was unforgettable. When Dr. Warach saw his initial M.R.I. scan, in his basement office at his home, he cried out in astonishment so loudly his wife ran downstairs. ''I have never seen anything so severe,'' Dr. Warach said. None of the three arteries that supplied the man's right hemisphere were getting any blood. 
 Now the man lay in a coma, twitching on his left side, paralyzed on his right, breathing with the help of a ventilator. If he survived, he would have severe brain damage.
 There was Michael Collins, a 49-year-old police officer who had had a stroke in his police car in Takoma Park, Md. Unlike the others, Mr. Collins seemed mostly recovered. The next few days, though, would determine whether he was among the lucky 10 percent of stroke patients who escape unscathed or whether he would always be weaker on his left side. If that happened, Mr. Collins said, he could never return to his job.
 ''You have to be able to shoot a gun with either hand,'' he explained. But as time passed, Mr. Collins continued to be plagued by numbness in his left hand and on the left side of his face. He wanted to return to work -- ''I'm doing great,'' he said this month -- but the Police Department insisted that he retire, telling him, he said, ''it's an officer safety issue.''
 The rest of the patients in the stroke units at the two hospitals that day were less fortunate: almost certain to live, but also almost certain to end up with brain damage. Some would have to spend time at a rehabilitation center.
 On average, said Dr. Brendan E. Conroy, medical director of the stroke recovery program at the National Rehabilitation Hospital, which is attached to the Washington Hospital Center, a third of the Washington hospital's stroke patients die, a third go home and a third come to him. 
 Those whose balance is affected typically spend 20 days learning to deal with a walker or a cane; those who are partly blind or paralyzed must learn to care for themselves. Many functions return, Dr. Conroy said, but rehabilitation also means learning to live with a disability.
 But what was perhaps saddest to the neurologists viewing the M.R.I. scans that morning was that tPA, which only recently appeared to be a triumph of medicine, had made not a whit of difference to these patients. They either had not arrived at the hospital in time or had been considered otherwise medically unsuitable to receive it. 
 Few would have predicted that fate for the drug. In 1995, after 40 years of trying to find something to break up blood clots in the brain, the cause of most strokes, researchers announced that tPA worked. A large federal study showed that, without it, about one patient in five escaped serious injury. With it, one in three escaped. 
 The drug had a serious side effect -- it could cause potentially life-threatening bleeding in the brain in about 6 percent of patients. But the clinical trial demonstrated that the drug's benefits outweighed its risks.
 When the study's results were announced, Dr. James Grotta of the University of Texas Medical School at Houston expressed the researchers' elation. ''Until today, stroke was an untreatable disease,'' Dr. Grotta said. 
 But the expected sea change did not occur. 
 One problem was that patients showed up too late. Many had no choice. Strokes often occur in the morning when people are sleeping. They awake with terrifying symptoms, paralyzed on one side or unable to speak. 
 ''That's the challenge -- we have to ask the patient'' when the stroke began, said Dr. A. Gregory Sorensen, a co-director of the Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging at Massachusetts General Hospital. ''If they don't know or can't talk, we're out of luck.''
 Another problem is deciding whether a patient is really having a stroke. A person who has trouble forming words could just be confused. Or what about someone whose arm or leg is weak?
 ''A lot of things can cause weakness,'' Dr. Warach said. ''A nerve injury can cause weakness; sometimes brain tumors can be suddenly symptomatic. Sometimes people have migraines that can completely mimic a stroke.'' 
 In fact, he said, a quarter of emergency room patients with symptoms suggestive of a stroke are not actually having one.
 Most get CT scans, which are useful mostly to rule out hemorrhagic strokes, the less common type that is caused by bleeding in the brain and should not be treated with tPA. Stroke specialists can usually then decide whether the patient is having a stroke caused by a blocked blood vessel and whether it can be treated with tPA. 
 But most stroke patients are handled by emergency room physicians who often say they are not sure of the diagnosis and therefore hesitate to give tPA.
 Dr. Richard Burgess, a member of Dr. Warach's stroke team, explained the situation: There is no particular penalty for not giving tPA. Doctors are unlikely to be sued if the patient dies or is left with brain damage that could have been avoided. But there is a penalty for giving tPA to someone who is not having a stroke. If that patient bleeds into the brain, the drug not only caused a tragic outcome but the doctor could also be sued. Few emergency room doctors want to take that chance. Treatment Barriers 
 There is a way to diagnose strokes more accurately -- with a diffusion M.R.I., a type of scan that shows water moving in the brain. During a stroke, the flow of water slows to a crawl as dead and dying cells swell. In one recent study, diffusion M.R.I. scans found five times as many strokes as CT scans, with twice the accuracy.
 A diffusion M.R.I. ''answers the question 95 percent of the time," Dr. Sorensen said.
 It seemed the perfect solution, but it was not. 
 Most hospitals say they cannot provide such scans to stroke patients. They would need both an M.R.I. technician and an expert to interpret the scans around the clock. They would need an M.R.I. machine near the emergency room. Most hospitals have the huge machines elsewhere, steadily booked far in advance for other patients. 
 It is simply not practical to demand the scans at every hospital or even every stroke center, said Dr. Edward C. Jauch, an emergency medicine doctor at the University of Cincinnati and a member of the Greater Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky Stroke Team.
 ''If you made M.R.I. the standard of care before giving tPA, most centers would not be able to comply,'' Dr. Jauch said. And if it takes more time to get a scan -- as it often does -- it might be better to forgo it and give tPA immediately if the patient's symptoms seem unambiguous.
 Doctors do not need an M.R.I. to diagnose and treat stroke, said Dr. Lee H. Schwamm, vice chairman of the department of neurology at Massachusetts General Hospital. But, Dr. Schwamm added, if the question is whether it helps, there is one reply: ''By all means.''
 It has still not been shown, though, that M.R.I. scans actually improve outcomes. It might depend on the circumstances and the hospital, said Dr. Walter J. Koroshetz, deputy director of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. 
 But some who use M.R.I. scans, and who have studied them in research, say the system has to change. They say enough is known about the scans to advocate having them at every major medical center that will treat stroke patients.
 ''All these problems could be solved if there was a will to do it,'' Dr. Sorensen said. In his opinion, it comes down to old and outdated assumptions that there is not much to be done for a stroke, to financial considerations and to a medical system that resists change. But the most significant barriers, he said, are financial.
 Another approach, stroke specialists say, is to direct all patients with stroke symptoms to designated stroke centers. There, stroke patients would be treated by experienced neurologists and admitted to stroke units for additional care. For the first time, in its newly published guidelines, the American Stroke Association recommended the routing of patients to stroke centers. 
 But even with such a system in place, many patients end up at hospitals that are not prepared to treat them, as Dr. Grotta discovered in Houston.
 He thought he could change stroke care in Houston with the stroke center idea. The first step went well -- the city's ambulance services agreed to take all patients with stroke symptoms to designated stroke centers. 
 Then, Dr. David E. Persse, the city's director of emergency medical services, asked every one of Houston's 25 hospitals if it wanted to be a stroke center. While seven have said yes, others have declined. 
 Stroke patients, unlike heart attack patients, are not moneymakers. Because of the way medical care is reimbursed, most hospitals either lose money or do little more than break even with stroke care but can often make several thousand dollars opening the arteries of a heart attack patient. And being a stroke center means finding and paying stroke specialists to be available around the clock.
 Soon another problem emerged. As many as a third of the patients refused to let the ambulance take them to a stroke center, demanding to go to their local hospital. 
 ''By law in Texas, we cannot take that man to another hospital against his will,'' Dr. Persse said. ''We could be charged with assault and battery and kidnapping and unlawful imprisonment.''
 The Joint Commission, which accredits hospitals, recently started certifying stroke centers, requiring that the hospitals be willing to treat stroke patients aggressively. But only 322 of the 4,280 accredited hospitals in the nation qualify, and most patients and doctors have no idea whether a hospital nearby is among them. (The list is available on the site http://www.jointcommission.org/CertificationPrograms/Disease-SpecificCare/DSCOrgs/ under ''primary stroke centers.'') Some states, like New York, Massachusetts and Florida, do their own certifying of stroke centers. 
 Nonetheless, most ambulances do not consider stroke center designations when they transport patients. And, said John Becknell, a spokesman for the National Association of Emergency Medical Technicians, national programs can be difficult because every community has its own rules for which ambulances pick up patients and where they take them.
 As a result, most stroke patients have no access to the recommended care and even fewer get M.R.I.'s, a situation Dr. Warach said he found appalling.
 ''How can it ever be in the patient's best interest to have an inferior diagnosis?'' he asked. ''It borders on malpractice that given a choice between two noninvasive tests, one of which is clearly superior, the worse test is the one that is preferred.'' Averting Catastrophe 
 In those awful moments when she realized she had had a stroke, Dr. Fite, unlike most patients, knew what to do. She told the ambulance crew to take her to Memorial Hermann Hospital, even though it was about an hour away. She knew that it was one of the Houston stroke centers, that Dr. Grotta worked there, and that its doctors had experience diagnosing strokes and giving tPA. 
 When she arrived, Dr. Grotta asked if she was sure she wanted the drug. Did she want to risk bleeding in the brain? Dr. Fite did not hesitate. The stroke, she said, ''was just so devastating that I would rather die of a hemorrhage in the brain than be left completely paralyzed in my right side.'' 
 ''In my horrible voice, I said, 'Yes, I want the tPA,' '' Dr. Fite said.
 Within 10 to 15 minutes, the drug started to dissolve the clot.
 ''I had weird spasms as nerves started to work again,'' Dr. Fite said. ''An arm would draw up real quick, a leg would tighten up. It hurt so bad I was crying because of the pain. But it was movement, and I knew something was going on.''
 Now, she looks back with dismay on her cavalier attitude toward high blood pressure. She knew very well how to prevent a stroke but, like many patients and despite her medical training, she found it all too easy to deny her own risk.
 Researchers have known for years the conditions that predispose a person to stroke -- smoking, diabetes, high cholesterol and an irregular heartbeat known as atrial fibrillation. But the major one is high blood pressure.
 ''Of all the modifiable risk factors, high blood pressure leads the list,'' Dr. Sacco said. ''With heart disease, you think more of cholesterol; with stroke you think of high blood pressure.'' 
 The reason, Dr. Sacco said, is that with high blood pressure, the tiny blood vessels in the brain clamp down so much and so hard to protect the brain that they can become rigid. Then they get blocked. The result is a stroke.
 Often, people decide they do not need their blood pressure medication or simply forget to take it because they feel well. But, Dr. Sacco said, patients are not solely to blame. Doctors may not have time to work with patients, monitoring blood pressure, telling them about changes in their diet and exercise that might help, or trying different drugs and combining them if necessary.
 And it is not so simple for people to keep track of their blood pressure. Machines in drugstores and supermarkets are not always accurate. Doctors may require appointments to check blood pressure.
 Even when people do try to control their pressure, doctors may not prescribe enough drugs or high enough doses. 
 ''They're on a couple of drugs, and the doctor doesn't want to push it,'' said Dr. Jeffrey A. Cutler, a consultant to the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute and a retired director of its clinical applications and prevention program.
 The result is that no more than half the people with high blood pressure have it under control, Dr. Cutler said. He estimated that half of all strokes could be prevented if people kept their blood pressure within the recommended range.
 Another lost opportunity to prevent strokes is the undertreatment of atrial fibrillation, in which the two upper chambers of the heart quiver. Blood can pool in the heart and clot, and those clots can be swept into the brain, lodge in a small blood vessel and cause a stroke. 
 Strokes from atrial fibrillation can largely be prevented with anticlotting drugs like warfarin. Yet many who have the condition do not know it and many who know they have it were never given or do not take an anticlotting drug.
 Some strokes can also be prevented by procedures to open obstructed arteries in the neck that supply blood to the brain. 
 As for Dr. Fite, she completely recovered. And she has changed her ways. 
 She was sobered by the cost of her treatment and brief hospital stay -- $96,000, most of which was paid by her insurance company. But she was even more sobered by how close she came to catastrophe.
 Now, Dr. Fite takes three blood pressure pills, a drug to prevent blood clots and a cholesterol-lowering drug. She plans to take those drugs every day for the rest of her life.
 ''I was so stupid,'' she said. ''Boy, when you go through this, you never want to go through it again.''
 ''I have been given that precious second chance,'' she said. ''I was so blessed.'' SIX KILLERS: STROKE Second of Six Articles Articles in the series have also covered heart disease and will cover: CANCER -- At a crossroad of early detection and treatment, with science advancing in small steps and prevention crucial. CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE -- New attention to a troubling disease and how to buy time. DIABETES -- Pushing the limits of treatment and raising new questions of what patients can manage on their own. ALZHEIMER'S -- Tracing the roots of a disease and trying to understand how and when to intervene. ABOUT THE SERIES -- They are the leading causes of illness and death in the United States today -- heart disease, cancer, stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes and Alzheimer's disease, in that order. And they have a lot in common. They are expensive -- together, they account for 25 percent of the nation's annual health care expenditures, said Jonathan Skinner, a health economist at Dartmouth College.
 They come in clusters -- accumulations of plaque in arteries lead to heart attacks but also can lead to strokes and predispose to Alzheimer's disease. Diabetes can lead to heart disease, stroke and even cancer. Smoking can lead to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as well as cancer and heart disease, which in turn predisposes to Alzheimer's. 
 And the outlook for them is improving. People are getting the diseases later in life, and death rates are falling.
 Yet, in many instances, patients are undertreated or treated inappropriately. In some cases, science has not offered answers, but in others, the medical system has been unable to turn proven remedies into everyday care.
 Today, The New York Times examines strokes, one of the six leading killers in America.
 More than 700,000 Americans have strokes each year, and 150,000 die. Half the survivors end up with permanent disabilities -- loss of vision, paralysis, difficulty speaking. But many strokes that could be successfully treated are not. And most strokes could have been avoided with appropriate medical care.
 Among the findings:
 With strokes, rapid treatment is crucial. During a stroke, an estimated 1.9 million nerve cells and 7.5 miles of nerve fiber die each minute. 
 One drug is approved to treat strokes, tPA. But only 3 percent to 5 percent of patients receiveit. Less than a third of patients get to the hospital early enough, within three hours of the onset of symptoms. And even if they do, many hospitals do not offer the drug for reasons that have to do with money and the availability of stroke specialists.
 Half of all strokes could be prevented if patients controlled their blood pressure, and others could be prevented by controlling other risk factors, like smoking. But most patients were unaware of their risk or did not appreciate the importance of stroke prevention. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 26, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 28, 2007, about preventing and treating strokes misstated the benefits of a drug, tissue plasminogen activator, or tPA. The drug protects stroke patients from disabilities, but it does not save lives. A reader discovered the error while doing research and pointed it out in an e-mail message this week.
An article on May 28, 2007, about preventing and treating strokes misstated the benefits of a drug, tissue plasminogen activator, or tPA. The drug protects stroke patients from disabilities, but it does not save lives. A reader discovered the error while doing research and pointed it out in an e-mail message this week.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Diana Fite, an emergency room physician in Houston, knew where to go and what drug to ask for when she had a stroke. (Photographs by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
TEAMWORK -- Doctors at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston on rounds in the neuro intensive care unit. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. A10)
PATH TO RECOVERY -- Meredith Roberts, an occupational therapist, at a Washington hospital with Michael Collins, a police officer who had to retire after a stroke. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A11) Chart/Diagram: ''How a Stroke Occurs'' Most strokes occur when an artery in the brain is blocked by a clot. The others, about 13 percent of strokes, occur when a brain artery bursts. Both types can be disastrous. HEMORRHAGIC STROKE 1. An artery in the brain bursts and either floods the surrounding tissue with blood or floods the surface and grooves of the brain. 2. The blood irritates brain cells, disrupting their functions and causing the brain to swell with fluid. 3. If the swelling continues, the brain is stopped by the skull and squeezed through the opening in the bottom of the skull, crushing the centers for consciousness and breathing. ISCHEMIC STROKE 1. A blood clot forms and is swept into the brain where it blocks an artery. Clots usually form in the heart or in arteries of the neck that are damaged by atherosclerotic plaque. 2. The brain tries to protect itself by raising blood pressure, trying to clear the artery. Meanwhile, the brain cells, deprived of blood, shut down. 3. If the problem persists, brain cells swell and die. Diagram highlights the following: BURST ARTERY Area filled by blood BLOCKAGE Area deprived of blood BLOOD SUPPLY BRAIN (Sources by Dr. Steven Warach, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke
 American Heart Association)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); STROKES (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); ANTICOAGULANTS (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); PARALYSIS (75%); HEART DISEASE (73%); STROKE TREATMENT & REHABILITATION (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (65%); CANCER (62%); BRAIN (60%); BIOLOGICAL FACTORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & STROKE (59%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007



571 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 303 words

 BODY:
 A DAY OFF All banks and stock markets in the United States are closed today in observance of the Memorial Day holiday. They will reopen on Tuesday. SIGNALS ON THE ECONOMY It will be a heavy week for economic data. On Friday, the government will issue its employment report for May, as well as reports on personal income and spending for April. In addition, the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for May will be released along with the University of Michigan consumer sentiment index. Also on Friday, automakers will report sales for May. 
On Thursday, the government will report its first revision of first-quarter gross domestic product. There will also be the Chicago purchasing managers index for May and a report on construction spending for April.
 And on Wednesday, the minutes from the May meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee will be released. While keeping its goal for the federal funds rate at 5.25 percent, the commitee said in its statement after the meeting that economic growth had slowed in the first part of the year. COMPANY EARNINGS Dell, which will report its first-quarter results on Thursday, headlines earnings for the week. Other earnings reports will come from Borders (Tuesday); Novell, Polo Ralph Lauren, TiVo and Williams-Sonoma (Wednesday); and Costco, Dollar General, H. J. Heinz, Hovnanian Enterprises, Sears Holdings and Tiffany (Thursday). ET CETERA Wal-Mart will have its annual shareholders meeting on Friday. Also on Friday, Alan Greenspan, left, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, will speak at Book Expo America.
 On Wednesday, Bill Gates of Microsoft and Steven P. Jobs of Apple will appear in a joint interview by Walter Mossberg and Kara Swisher of The Wall Street Journal at the annual ''D: All Things Digital'' conference in San Diego. 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (68%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (68%); AUTOMAKERS (55%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); NOVELL INC (55%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (54%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (54%); H J HEINZ CO (54%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

TICKER: DG (NYSE) (54%); HOV (NYSE) (54%); HNZ (NYSE) (54%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (54%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (54%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (54%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (54%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (54%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (54%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (54%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (54%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); BILL GATES (50%); STEVEN JOBS (50%); RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007



572 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Can We Afford Our Oil Gluttony?

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Frank G. Zarb (''How to Win the Energy War,'' Op-Ed, May 23) is right that the politics of creating a concrete plan to move America toward energy independence would be tricky.
Research by Public Agenda indicates that this is a great time for leaders to step up on this issue. Almost all Americans -- 89 percent according to our most recent Confidence in U.S. Foreign Policy Index -- say reducing dependence on foreign energy would improve America's security. 
 In fact, to the public, energy independence is second only to better intelligence gathering as a security strategy. And nearly as many, 85 percent, think the government can do something to reduce our dependence on foreign energy. The public clearly sees energy dependence as an issue that goes way beyond gas prices. 
 This is not to say that the public will gladly accept Mr. Zarb's suggestions for very substantial gasoline taxes and other remedies. But Americans definitely do want leaders to step up with new ideas and be clear about the pros and cons of various approaches. Scott Bittle New York, May 23, 2007 The writer is the executive editor of Public Agenda Online. To the Editor:
 Geopolitical, economic and environmental considerations support an increasingly urgent need for a credible energy policy that would overcome the United States' dependency on foreign oil.
 As the centerpiece of such a policy, Frank G. Zarb calls for increases in the gas tax with a tax rebate for lower-income taxpayers. Broader-based tax relief to accompany the gas tax increase would be better. Ideally, the proposal could be designed to be tax-neutral, with broader tax cuts offsetting the gas tax increase.
 A report commissioned by the Institute for Socioeconomic Studies during the 1980 energy crisis found that a universal gas tax rebate would provide more general relief, while protecting the poor and middle class from the regressive nature of the gas tax.
 Recent Congressional Budget Office research suggests that the overall economic impact of higher energy prices could be minimized through broad-based tax relief. Such an approach could overcome political resistance on economic grounds to measures that would address America's vulnerability because of its dependency on imported oil. Donald Sutherland White Plains, May 23, 2007 The writer is a research fellow at the Institute for Socioeconomic Studies. To the Editor:
 Dependence on foreign oil affects military decisions and our economic well-being. We can do something as citizens, in time of war, to help.
 I offer a suggestion: Exclude gasoline-powered vehicles from New York City on weekends. Bicycling, skateboarding and scootering can provide health benefits in numerous ways. It would be wonderful to see plays and dine out without the chaos of traffic-riddled streets. And this would help give us the freedom to breathe in nonpolluted air. 
 New Yorkers are very resourceful, as we demonstrated during the last transit strike. We can and must set an example for the rest of the country. Norman Singer Brooklyn, May 24, 2007 To the Editor:
 It is clear that we need to conserve on fossil fuels, construct an extensive rail system and engage in regional urban planning, with public transportation to employment hubs. It is also clear that no significant effort has been put forth in this regard. 
 In his nostalgic view of President Gerald R. Ford's initiatives following the 1973 Arab oil embargo, Frank G. Zarb, Mr. Ford's energy assistant, recalls a conversation with Senator Henry M. Jackson in which the senator asked Mr. Zarb whether he knew how to start another Arab embargo. Mr. Zarb then writes: ''He was right. Without a crisis, a real national energy program could not get past normal political paralysis.'' 
 Doesn't Mr. Zarb or anyone in Washington consider the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, a crisis worthy enough of a national commitment to energy independence? Cynthia Granata Newtown, Pa., May 23, 2007 To the Editor:
 The only safe nuclear reactor is the Sun, which provides a clean, inexhaustible energy supply. Building new nuclear or fossil power plants would cost the same as building solar power plants, even if we disregarded the costs of global warming and the coming energy wars.
 The only way to end public confusion is to build solar-hydrogen demonstration plants. After operating them, we could firmly establish their costs and feasibility. Until then, the lobbying interests will continue to block progress by debating facts.
 Building that demonstration plant would take a statesman in Washington -- but so did the Moon landing and rebuilding Europe. Bela Liptak Stamford, Conn., May 23, 2007 The writer is an editor of Environmental Engineers' Handbook. To the Editor:
 I agree that nuclear power is the cleanest and best option for America's electric power supply. 
 Nuclear power has an outstanding safety record in this country. In addition, current plants produce electricity at the lowest production costs in the United States today. 
 New nuclear power plants that are to be ordered in late 2007 and beyond are estimated to be just as economically competitive with new base-load coal plants. 
 The disposition of nuclear power's only by-product, solid radioactive waste, in a geologic repository has been the preferred solution since its inception in the 1950s. We need to continue the Yucca Mountain project with steady and measured engineering planning and licensing based on a solid safety case. It is by far the best long-term option. Mike Corradini Madison, Wis., May 23, 2007 The writer, chairman of the nuclear engineering program at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, is the former chairman of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Michael Sloan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); TAX INCREASES (88%); WRITERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (74%); GASOLINE (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (68%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007



573 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: A Labor Shortage?

 BODY:
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''After Aiding Bill on Immigration, Employers Balk'' (front page, May 21): 
After decades as a labor economist, I can hardly remember meeting an employer who didn't complain of a labor shortage. But businesses claiming that ''we can't find the workers we need'' tend to leave out the other part of the sentence: ''at the wages we're willing to pay.''
 There are good reasons to support the welcoming aspects of the Senate's immigration proposal, but an alleged labor shortage isn't one of them. Most of the time, such shortages exist in the minds of vested interests.
 Moreover, when they're real, they represent a perfectly legitimate market force to raise wages and signal necessary economic adjustments. Jared Bernstein Washington, May 21, 2007 The writer is a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SHORTAGES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007



574 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Thinning of Veterans' Ranks Leaves Breach in Collective Memory

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
On yet another Memorial Day in New York, more old soldiers faded away.
 How many is hard to say, but 110 would be a fair guess. That, on average, is the number of veterans who die each day in this state. It comes to just about five deaths every hour, one every 12 or 13 minutes. The losses are as relentless as time itself.
As a result, the veterans' population in New York State is at its lowest point since before World War II, which (for the benefit of the history impaired) began in 1941 as far as America's participation goes. Naturally, the shrinking numbers have human consequences. 
 For one thing, ''you got a reduced legislative influence,'' says George P. Basher, the director of the state Division of Veterans' Affairs, who was an ordnance officer in Vietnam during that increasingly distant war.
 ''After World War II every congressman was a vet, or most of them were,'' Mr. Basher said. ''Now, you can look at Congress and less than 15 percent of them are veterans. Your State Legislature is exactly the same. I can probably name them all.''
 Numbers never tell a full story, but they are compelling.
 Each year, Mr. Basher said, about 40,000 former military men and women die in New York State. Another 10,000 a year leave the state, most of them heading south and west; they are offset by roughly 10,000 who are fresh from military service.
 That leaves New York with about 1,050,000 veterans, compared with 1.4 million eight years ago. Actuarial projections by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs say the number will shrink to 878,000 in five years.
 There is no great mystery at work here. Plain and simple, no one gets out of life alive.
 Sure, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are producing new veterans -- about 48,000 in the state since 9/11, half of them from National Guard or Reserve units. But their numbers hardly keep pace with the rapid disappearance of fighters from World War II and the Korean War (which, again for the history impaired, lasted from 1950 to 1953).
 In 2000, New York State had 343,600 veterans of World War II vintage. By the fall of 2005, the last year with precise figures, the total had dwindled to 200,400. By 2015, it is expected to be barely 45,000. The trend is the same for Korean War veterans. Those of the Vietnam era are starting to feel their mortality as well.
 Looked at another way -- and we'll spare you any more numbers after this -- only 7 percent of New York's adult population have military experience, a figure likely to dip below 5 percent within five years.
 What it means is that the military is increasingly a class distinct from the rest of society. Mr. Basher is convinced this is not healthy.
 ''It drives me crazy,'' he said. In his Vietnam days, from 1969 to 1971, his mates came from ''a whole range of economic and social circumstances that you don't get in the military now.''
 ''Today's military is a monolith, and the diversity is not so much close to what it should be,'' he said. ''The more diverse, the more people understand the military, the less likely you are to use them as a group of mercenaries, which is sort of how you're using them now.''
 LEADING politicians are more unfamiliar than ever with the military. In the top tier of New York's elected officials, not one has been in uniform -- not the governor, not either senator, not the attorney general, not the mayor, not the tough-talking former mayor who would be president.
 Yet, almost paradoxically, ''this in a sense is the best possible time to be a veteran,'' Mr. Basher said. Whatever the long-term societal consequences of having an American military in which relatively few serve, veterans command more respect, he said, than they did when he returned from Vietnam.
 No question, there are Veterans Affairs foul-ups and serious shortcomings at places like the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. But ''nobody wants to not fund the vets,'' Mr. Basher said. In New York State, he said, Veterans Affairs will spend nearly $4 billion this year, almost double the figure from 10 years ago.
 Whenever he wore his uniform after coming home, ''people looked at you funny,'' Mr. Basher said. ''Now, those of us that got treated that way are in a sense running the system. We're driven to make sure that doesn't happen to these guys. And it's not going to.''
 It's fundamental, he said: ''You can hate the war, but you've got to love the warrior.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry Karn, who was in the submarine service during World War II, listened yesterday to Gov. Eliot Spitzer at a Memorial Day ceremony in Pine Plains, a town in Dutchess County. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); KOREAN WAR (89%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (63%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); VIET NAM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007



575 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Telepresence TV

BYLINE: By PAUL BURNHAM FINNEY

 BODY:
High-end videoconferencing -- the magical ability to be two places at once -- has had a bumpy past, plagued by jerky gestures, out-of-sync lips and sound and cumbersome equipment. Few executives liked what they saw, including unflattering pictures of themselves, and most thought the business tool was not worth the price. 
 But now, thanks to new technology, videoconferencing is delivering on its promise as an alternative to traditional business travel. The high-definition TV images are sharp. Broadband fiber-optic cable has replaced tired telephone lines. And the equipment is often installed in studios that are handsome and appropriately corporate.
And as air travel becomes more difficult, virtual meetings provide an alternative. You can sit across a table from a large screen showing someone who looks quite real and life-size, but may be in London or Frankfurt. Only a handshake and exchange of business cards are missing. 
 Equipment suppliers, led by Cisco, Hewlett-Packard, Polycom and Tandberg, have created a new word -- ''telepresence'' -- to market the technology. 
 ''It's a big leap forward,'' said Claire Schooley, a teleconferencing expert at Forrester Research, a technology and market research consultancy in Cambridge, Mass. ''Can you imagine a sales meeting where you go to one of the new sophisticated video rooms and hear the spiel in one hour, compared to attending a meeting in a remote location? It's perfect if you want to see the body language.'' 
 Ken Crangle, general manager of Hewlett-Packard's telepresence unit, known as HP Halo, said, ''I just had a four-way meeting today with a C.E.O in London, people in his company's New York office and in our Alpharetta office outside Atlanta, and several of us here at headquarters in Oregon.''
 But telepresence technology comes at a high price: up to $300,000 to $400,000 a studio. 
 ''Customers are paying for a Cadillac service,'' said Andrew W. Davis, an analyst at Wainhouse Research, a consultancy in Duxbury, Mass., that tracks voice, video and Web trends. ''Walk in a Halo room, and everything is ready to run. There's a slick user interface. But it eats up a massive amount of bandwidth and costs something like $18,000 a month to keep around.'' 
 The infant telepresence industry may never produce big numbers in dollars or units shipped, Mr. Davis said. So far, Hewlett-Packard has sold a little more than a hundred units (28 for its own use) since Halo's introduction in 2005. Cisco just began shipping the first of some 110 units it expects to sell within a year. 
 ''I'd guess it will never be more than 1 percent of total videoconferencing sales,'' Mr. Davis added. 
 The mainstream market is dominated by simpler systems that use less advanced equipment and cost from about $10,000 to $50,000, depending on location, room size and other features. Last year 163,000 of the units were sold, Mr. Davis said, adding that the market has been growing around 20 percent a year for the last decade. Part of the reason for the increased interest in telepresence videoconferencing is that air travel is more time-consuming than ever, just when companies are putting a premium on rapid decision-making. 
 ''The endless problems at airports these days -- whether it's bad weather, maintenance delays, crowded cabins or security lines -- make alternatives to travel more attractive,'' said Gary Foley, the manager of global conferencing and travel services at Xerox who oversees some 19,000 employees who take business trips. 
 But the trade-off between video and travel can be tricky. 
 ''The reason for actual face time is often subjective -- quite difficult to quantify,'' said Henry H. Harteveldt, the vice president and principal analyst at Forrester. ''There's the need to build a relationship, a desire to deliver good news -- or bad news -- in person. The virtual meeting may change the mix with fewer people traveling for sales purposes and more for client work and conventions.'' 
 Teleconferencing veterans with long memories can recall that the AT&T Picturephone, an early video concept introduced at the 1964 New York World's Fair, was a commercial flop. But that was then. 
 The new systems, in contrast, are sleek and glamorous. For example, Cisco's virtual meeting room includes an IP (Internet Protocol) phone, three broadcast-quality cameras, three ultrasensitive mikes, three 60-inch plasma screens, a crescent-shaped table that seats six and soft back-lighting. 
 ''The table is maple to complement faces,'' said a Cisco spokeswoman, Jacqueline Pigliucci. The studios are painted in identical colors, to give the impression that the people on the screen are in the same room. 
 Cisco's 3000 model sells for $299,000. ''Double that to $600,000 when you add a similar system at a remote location,'' said Mr. Foley. 
 But prices for these high-end systems are dropping. ''In September of 2005 we were pricing our new Halos at $550,000,'' Mr. Crangle said. Now they are $329,000 and $399,000 for the two models. 
 ''Going the video route may seem expensive,'' Ms. Schooley of Forrester said. ''But if you're talking about high-level executives moving about in a global company -- flying first or business class or in a company jet just to see someone in person -- travel adds up and the cost of sophisticated video setups can be a wash.''
 Mr. Foley said, ''We get our money back in less than 12 months.'' 
 Companies like ABN Amro, AMD, Heinz, General Electric, PepsiCo and Wachovia are using the new virtual meetings for product briefings, training courses, strategy sessions and inspirational chats. 
 Videoconferencing is taking a bite here and there out of the business-travel pie -- but the overall pie keeps getting bigger because of globalization.
 ''Videoconferencing isn't growing at the expense of travel,'' said Caleb Tiller of the National Business Travel Association. ''Some 68 percent of our travel managers predicted there would be more trips at their companies this year than in 2006.'' 
 Drawing on the latest annual study of 1,400 American business travelers, Peter C. Yesawich, president and chief executive of Yesawich, Pepperdine, Brown & Russell, , an Orlando-based travel trend tracker, says that about 33 percent agree that they are ''actively seeking ways to use new technology -- and not just videoconferencing -- to reduce business travel. But when you do the arithmetic, only 3 percent of all business travelers are taking fewer trips because of the advances in technology.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cisco employees in New York, left, and San Jose, Calif., on screen, meeting via monitor. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECONFERENCING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); BANDWIDTH (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); BROADBAND (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); SALES & SELLING (65%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (83%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (83%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007



576 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: Getting to a Colombia Trade Deal

 BODY:
Free trade agreements with Peru and Panama now seem headed toward Congressional approval, after the Bush administration agreed to incorporate the basic labor standards long insisted upon by House Democrats. But a separate trade pact with Colombia rightly remains in legislative limbo over a much starker labor problem. Colombia leads the world in the killing of labor activists. 
 Under pressure from Congress, President Alvaro Uribe's government has finally begun acknowledging the problem. But it has yet to demonstrate that it means to take effective steps to protect endangered workers and punish those who terrorize them. While the number of killings has declined somewhat over the past few years, it is still unacceptably high. Last year, an average of six union activists were murdered per month. And until now, far too few of these crimes have been energetically prosecuted. Of the 2,100 labor murders recorded since 1991, there have been convictions in only 37 cases.
Before Congress approves the Colombia trade agreement, the Uribe government must expand its investigative efforts, improve its conviction rate and send a clear message that this form of terrorism will no longer be tolerated. 
 That need not take long, particularly if Washington is prepared to provide some of the resources Colombian justice officials will need. A special unit devoted to prosecuting labor murders began operations this year and is already preparing indictments. Its investigators need armor-plated vehicles and helicopters to travel safely to some of the remote locations where murders were planned or carried out. Money for this equipment should be added to next year's appropriation for Plan Colombia, the antinarcotics partnership which also provides funds for social and economic development. 
 With a good-faith effort all around, approval of the Colombia Free Trade Agreement could be possible before the end of this year. That, in turn, would help Colombia provide jobs for some of those now recruited into the kind of paramilitary organizations suspected in many of the labor murders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TERRORISM (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INDICTMENTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (71%); MURDER (57%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); PERU (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007



577 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: In Canada, Fretting Over Foreign Takeovers

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, May 28 

 BODY:
A recent series of acquisitions of Canadian corporations has prompted a growing public debate over foreign control. 
 First came the recent takeovers of the mining giant Inco, the steel maker Dofasco and the Hudson's Bay Company, the retailer established long before Canada itself. The prospect that Alcan of Montreal might go to Alcoa of the United States and that a group including American private equity firms might acquire Bell Canada's parent company has intensified the controversy. 
On Monday, in the latest sign that the takeovers had become a growing political issue, the opposition Liberal Party said that it wanted to freeze foreign takeovers of Canadian companies for three months to allow a review of investment laws.
 ''The Conservative government should immediately review the rules governing foreign takeovers to better promote both global champions and the fair treatment of Canadian companies,'' the leader of the Liberal Party, Stephane Dion, told a news conference. 
 The Liberals are not alone. Some prominent executives have expressed concern that Canada is losing its dominance in industries like mining.
 Among the critics is Ian W. Delaney, executive chairman of the mining company Sherritt International, who told The Globe and Mail, a Toronto newspaper, last week that London had replaced Toronto and Vancouver, British Columbia, as his industry's hub.
 Peter Munk, founder and chairman of Barrick Gold in Toronto, has warned that an exodus of head offices to other countries will cause, among other things, lower levels of charitable donations and fewer opportunities for skilled workers. Gordon Nixon, chief executive of the Royal Bank of Canada, has also raised the issue.
 ''I sometimes worry that we may all wake up one day and find that as a nation, we have lost control of our affairs,'' Dominic D'Alessandro, the president and chief executive of Manulife Financial, told shareholders on May 3. 
 Unlike some other executives, Mr. D'Alessandro, whose company's holdings include John Hancock in the United States, has suggested broadening the sectors covered by foreign ownership limits. Canada's current restrictions on foreign control are largely limited to financial services, transportation, broadcasting and telecommunications companies.
 In 1973 the Liberals, under Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau, introduced a Foreign Investment Review Act that tried to minimize foreign control of the economy.
 But that move was unpopular with much of the business community, and a Conservative government passed legislation in 1985 creating a review body, Investment Canada. It is believed not to have turned down a single takeover since then, although it does not publicly disclose information about decisions.
 John McCallum, the Liberals' finance critic and a former chief economist of the Royal Bank, said Canadian companies should have the same protection from takeovers that other governments provide their corporations. 
 He noted that if Alcan tries a reverse takeover of Alcoa, a step the Canadian company has said it might take, it will encounter laws in Alcoa's home state of Pennsylvania intended to block takeovers.
 Speaking at a news conference in Toronto, Jim Flaherty, the Conservative government's finance minister, rejected Mr. Dion's proposal.
 ''Well, I wonder what they'd say to Canadian companies that are acquiring businesses abroad,'' Mr. Flaherty said. ''Would we have a three-month moratorium on Canadian companies like Thomson Corporation acquiring companies like Reuters in a transaction worth more than $17 billion in the United Kingdom?'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephane Dion is the leader of the Liberal Party in Canada. (Photo by Chris Wattie/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (92%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); REVERSE MERGERS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); CHARITIES (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%)

COMPANY: HUDSON'S BAY CO (93%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (85%); ALCOA INC (84%); MANULIFE FINANCIAL CORP (58%); SHERRITT INTERNATIONAL CORP (55%)

TICKER: HBC (TSX) (93%); RY (TSX) (85%); RY (SWX) (85%); RY (NYSE) (85%); AAI (ASX) (84%); AA (NYSE) (84%); MFC (TSX) (58%); MFC (NYSE) (58%); 0945 (HKSE) (58%); S (TSX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (93%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (93%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (84%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (84%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (58%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (55%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%); SIC1061 FERROALLOY ORES, EXCEPT VANADIUM (55%)

PERSON: STEPHANE DION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007



578 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1936 words

HEADLINE: LAWMAKERS PUSH FOR BIG SUBSIDIES FOR COAL PROCESS

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 28 

 BODY:
Even as Congressional leaders draft legislation to reduce greenhouse gases linked to global warming, a powerful roster of Democrats and Republicans is pushing to subsidize coal as the king of alternative fuels. 
 Prodded by intense lobbying from the coal industry, lawmakers from coal states are proposing that taxpayers guarantee billions of dollars in construction loans for coal-to-liquid production plants, guarantee minimum prices for the new fuel, and guarantee big government purchases for the next 25 years.
 With both House and Senate Democrats hoping to pass ''energy independence'' bills by mid-July, coal supporters argue that coal-based fuels are more American than gasoline and potentially greener than ethanol. 
 ''For so many, filthy coal is a dirty four-letter word,'' said Representative Nick V. Rahall, Democrat of West Virginia and chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee. ''These individuals, I tell you, have their heads buried in the sand.'' 
 Environmental groups are adamantly opposed, warning that coal-based diesel fuels would at best do little to slow global warming and at worst would produce almost twice as much of the greenhouse gases tied to global warming as petroleum.
 Coal companies are hardly alone in asking taxpayers to underwrite alternative fuels in the name of energy independence and reduced global warming. But the scale of proposed subsidies for coal could exceed those for any alternative fuel, including corn-based ethanol. 
 Among the proposed inducements winding through House and Senate committees: loan guarantees for six to 10 major coal-to-liquid plants, each likely to cost at least $3 billion; a tax credit of 51 cents for every gallon of coal-based fuel sold through 2020; automatic subsidies if oil prices drop below $40 a barrel; and permission for the Air Force to sign 25-year contracts for almost a billion gallons a year of coal-based jet fuel.
 Coal companies have spent millions of dollars lobbying on the issue, and have marshaled allies in organized labor, the Air Force and fuel-burning industries like the airlines. Peabody Energy, the world's biggest coal company, urged in a recent advertising campaign that people ''imagine a world where our country runs on energy from Middle America instead of the Middle East.'' 
 Representative Rick Boucher, a Virginia Democrat whose district is dominated by coal mining, is writing key sections of the House energy bill. In the Senate, champions of coal-to-liquid fuels include Barack Obama, the Illinois Democrat, Jim Bunning of Kentucky and Larry Craig of Wyoming, both Republicans. 
 President Bush has not weighed in on specific incentives, but he has often stressed the importance of coal as an alternative to foreign oil. In calling for a 20 percent cut in projected gasoline consumption by 2017, he has carefully referred to the need for ''alternative'' fuels rather than ''renewable'' fuels. Administration officials say that was specifically to make room for coal.
 The political momentum to subsidize coal fuels is in odd juxtaposition to simultaneous efforts by Democrats to draft global-warming bills that would place new restrictions on coal-fired electric power plants.
 The move reflects a tension, which many lawmakers gloss over, between slowing global warming and reducing dependence on foreign oil.
 Many analysts say the huge coal reserves of the United States could indeed provide a substitute for foreign oil. 
 The technology to convert coal into liquid fuel is well-established, and the fuel can be used in conventional diesel cars and trucks, as well as jet engines, boats and ships. Industry executives contend that the fuels can compete against gasoline if oil prices are about $50 a barrel or higher.
 But coal-to-liquid fuels produce almost twice the volume of greenhouse gases as ordinary diesel. In addition to the carbon dioxide emitted while using the fuel, the production process creates almost a ton of carbon dioxide for every barrel of liquid fuel.
 Coal industry executives insist their fuel can actually be cleaner than oil, because they would capture the gas produced as the liquid fuel is being made and store it underground. Some could be injected into oil fields to push oil to the surface. 
 Several aspiring coal-to-liquid companies say that they would reduce greenhouse emissions even further by using renewable fuels for part of the process. But none of that has been done at commercial volumes, and many analysts say the economic issues are far from settled.
 ''There are many uncertainties,'' said James T. Bartis, a senior policy researcher at the RAND Corporation, who testified last week before the Senate Energy Committee. ''We don't even know what the costs are yet.''
 The clash between ''energy independence'' and global warming will break into the open next month. The Senate energy bill, being drafted by Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, would promote renewable fuels -- but not coal-to-liquid fuels -- and would require electric utilities to produce 15 percent of their power with renewable fuels by 2020.
 But coal-state Republicans have vowed to resume their push for coal incentives when the bill reaches the Senate floor, and many Democrats are likely to support them. In the House, Democrats like Mr. Boucher and Mr. Rahall will be pushing in the same direction.
 But some energy experts, as well as some lawmakers, worry that the scale of the coal-to-liquid incentives could lead to a repeat of a disastrous effort 30 years ago to underwrite a synthetic fuels industry from scratch. 
 When oil prices plunged in the 1980s, the government-owned Synthetic Fuels Corporation became a giant government albatross that lost billions and remains a symbol of misguided industrial policy more than 25 years later.
 ''This is the snake oil of energy alternatives,'' said Peter Altman, a policy analyst at the National Environmental Trust, an environmental advocacy group. ''The promises are just as lofty and the substance is just as absent as the first snake oil salesmen who plied their trade in the 1800s.''
 Coal executives contend that the technology for converting coal to ''ultraclean'' diesel fuel for use in cars and trucks has been around for decades. Known as the Fischer-Tropsch process, the technology dates to the 1920s. It was used by Germany during World War II and by South Africa during the apartheid era, in both cases because the countries were blocked by international embargoes from buying oil. 
 SASOL, a South African chemical conglomerate, is the world's largest producer of coal-based liquids and operates a plant that produces 150,000 barrels a day.
 ''Greener and cleaner -- we can do it, and we will do it,'' said John Baardson, president of Baard Energy, a firm in Vancouver, Wash., that is trying to build a $4 billion coal-to-liquid plant in Ohio.
 But no company has built a commercial-scale plant that also captures carbon, and experts caution that many obstacles lie ahead. 
 ''At best, you're going to tread water on the carbon issue, and you're probably going to do worse,'' said Howard Herzog, a principal research engineer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a co-author of ''The Future of Coal,'' a voluminous study published in March by M.I.T. ''It goes against the whole grain of reducing carbon.''
 The M.I.T. team expressed even more skepticism about the economic risks. It estimated that it would cost $70 billion to build enough plants to replace 10 percent of American gasoline consumption. 
 The study estimates that the construction costs for coal-to-liquid plants are almost four times higher than the costs for comparable petroleum refineries, and it argues that cost estimates for synthetic fuel plants in the past turned out to be ''wildly optimistic.''
 In a new report last week, the Energy Department estimated that a plant capable of making 50,000 barrels of liquefied coal a day -- a tiny fraction of the nearly 9 million barrels in gasoline burned daily in the United States -- would cost $4.5 billion. 
 But the Energy Department also estimated that such a plant could produce a 20 percent annual return if oil prices remain about $60 a barrel. 
 Coal executives say that they need government help primarily because oil prices are so volatile and the upfront construction costs are so high. ''We're not asking for everything. All we're asking for is something,'' said Hunt Ramsbottom, chief executive of Rentech Inc., which is trying to build two plants at mines owned by Peabody Energy.
 But coal executives anticipate potentially huge profits. Gregory H. Boyce, chief executive of Peabody Energy, based in St. Louis, which has $5.3 billion in sales, told an industry conference nearly two years ago that the value of Peabody's coal reserves would skyrocket almost tenfold, to $3.6 trillion, if it sold all its coal in the form of liquid fuels.
 Coal industry lobbying has reached a fever pitch. The industry spent $6 million on federal lobbying in 2005 and 2006, three times what it spent each year from 2000 through 2004, according to calculations by Politicalmoneyline.com.
 Peabody, which has quadrupled its annual lobbying budget to about $2 million since 2004, recently hired Richard A. Gephardt, the Missouri Democrat who was House majority leader from 1989 to 1995 and a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1988 and 2004, to help make its case in Congress. 
 One of the most vociferous champions of coal-to-liquid fuels is the Southern States Energy Board, a group organized by governors from 16 states. Last year, the group published a study, which cost $500,000, that concluded that coal-to-liquid fuel could and should replace almost one-third of imported oil by 2030. 
 As it happens, the coal industry supplied much of the financing for the study and subsequent marketing. Peabody Energy contributed about $150,000 and the National Mining Association added $50,000, officials at the Southern States Energy Board said. 
 The inducements under discussion would not only subsidize up to 10 coal-to-liquid plants, but also guarantee a minimum market through long-term contracts with the Air Force and minimum prices for at least some producers.
 ''There is financial uncertainty, which is inhibiting the flow of private capital into the construction of coal-to-liquid facilities,'' said Mr. Boucher, who supports most of the proposals and is drafting portions of the energy bill. 
 In addition to construction loan guarantees, Mr. Boucher would protect the first six liquid plants from drops in energy prices. If oil prices fell below about $40 a barrel, the government would automatically grant loans to the first six plants that make coal-based fuels. If oil prices climbed to $80 a barrel, companies would have to pay a surcharge to the government.
 But the most important guarantee, many coal producers said, is the prospect of signing 25-year purchase contracts with the Air Force.
 The Air Force consumes about 2.6 billion gallons a year of jet fuel, and Air Force officials would like to switch as much as 780 million gallons a year to coal-based fuels. Air Force officials strongly support the idea of extremely long contracts, but others at the Defense Department worry that the military could be left holding the bag for years if oil prices dropped significantly.
 For Mr. Boyce, chief executive of Peabody Energy, there is no reason to be timid.
 ''If America has the will to be one of the great energy centers of the world,'' he told an industry conference last year, ''we have the resources right under our feet.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 31, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Tuesday about a push by lawmakers to pass subsidies for coal misidentified the state represented by the Republican Senator Larry E. Craig, who is a supporter of the coal-to-liquid fuel concept. It is Idaho, not Wyoming.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard A. Gephardt, a former Democratic House majority leader, has been hired by Peabody Energy to help make the case for liquefied coal. (Photo by Mike Mergen/Bloomberg News)
 Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, is drafting a bill to promote renewable fuels, but not liquefied coal, for electricity. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. C8) Chart: ''Comparing Fuels'' The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that using liquefied coal as a fuel source instead of petroleum could increase greenhouse gas emissions. Graph tracks the estimated change in greenhouse gas emissions if petroleum fuel were to be replaced with one of these alternative fuels: Cellulosic ethanol: -91% Biodiesel: -68% Sugar ethanol: -56% Electricity: -47% Gaseous hydrogen: -41% Compressed natural gas: -29% Liquefied natural gas: -23% Corn ethanol: -22% Liquefied petroleum gas: -20% Methanol: -9% Coal-to-liquids (With carbon capture and storage): +4% Liquid hydrogen: +7% Gas to liquid diesel: +9% Coal-to-liquids (Without carbon capture and storage): +119% Note: The estimates include emissions from all parts of the process of making the fuels including fossil extraction, feedstock growth and distribution as well as averaging for the different methods of producing the fuels. (Source by Environmental Protection Agency)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); BIOFUELS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ETHANOL (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); COAL MINING (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); JET FUEL (77%); ALCOHOLS (77%); GASOLINE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); DIESEL FUEL (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); AIR FORCES (67%); ARMED FORCES (62%); AIRLINES (61%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: PEABODY ENERGY CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%)

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (84%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (84%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (84%)

PERSON: NICK J RAHALL II (73%); JIM BUNNING (58%); RICK BOUCHER (58%); LARRY CRAIG (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JEFF BINGAMAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007



579 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Flying Above the Traffic But Below Expectations

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
It has been the dream of New Yorkers for as long as there has been traffic on the Van Wyck: whizzing by helicopter from Manhattan to the airport to avoid being at the mercy of the city's highways and clogged crosstown streets.
 At various times in the past half-century, carriers from New York Airways to Pan Am have offered scheduled flights, but they have ultimately been undone by high costs, uneven demand and, in one case, a catastrophic accident.
U.S. Helicopter, which was started by several former airline industry executives, is the latest company to try to beat the odds. In March 2006, it began hourly flights between the Downtown Manhattan Heliport, near Wall Street, and Kennedy International Airport. Then it added another airport destination, Newark Liberty International, as well as another heliport, at East 34th Street. 
 The company is betting there are more than enough bankers, brokers and top business executives who can afford $165 for the eight-minute flight between the city and the airports. 
 But the service and the company's financial outlook both appear to be off to a bumpy start because of spotty marketing, high costs and delays opening the East 34th Street Heliport. While U.S. Helicopter is not required to announce passenger figures, it very likely missed its original target of carrying 160,000 customers in its first year, according to industry analysts.
 In addition, transportation officials say U.S. Helicopter is behind in paying its $14,700 monthly rent at the heliport in Lower Manhattan, which is sandwiched between the Staten Island Ferry terminal and the South Street Seaport. Sensing turbulence, investors have driven U.S. Helicopter's stock down to $1, from its high of $3 in April last year, soon after its debut.
 ''These things are very sexy businesses to be in and for customers because they do a great job,'' said Robert W. Mann Jr., president of R. W. Mann & Company, an airline industry consultant. ''But from an economics perspective, it's a real challenge.''
 The company lost a net $3.9 million in the first quarter this year on revenue of $297,000, 38 percent of which came from more expensive charter flights rather than scheduled passenger service. At $165 per ticket ($159 plus taxes) for a scheduled flight, that works out to about 20 customers a day. The company said in its most recent quarterly report with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it had just over $1 million in cash and would need more to expand.
 Despite the early hiccups, Donal McSullivan, U.S. Helicopter's chief marketing officer, minimized the difficulties, saying, ''Our business model is sound, but it's slower than we wanted it to be a year ago.'' 
 In December, it began flights to the Newark airport, and in February, nearly a year behind schedule, it started flying from the East 34th Street Heliport, hoping to lure bankers, lawyers and executives from their Midtown offices.
 This month, U.S. Helicopter moved its landing pad at Kennedy from the American Airlines terminal to Delta's, which U.S. Helicopter says will help attract 50 percent more passengers on its flights there because Delta is beefing up its international service. 
 Delta passengers, like American passengers before, can check in and pass security in Manhattan, then walk a short distance to their gate at Kennedy. U.S. Helicopter has a similar arrangement with Continental Airlines at Newark.
 Also this month, U.S. Helicopter signed an agreement with the Sabre Travel Network to make it easier for travel agents to book flights for their clients. In the future, the company says it wants to add La Guardia Airport and the West 30th Street Heliport to its roster, and possibly expand to cities including Chicago, Los Angeles and Washington.
 But before U.S. Helicopter can move into those markets, analysts say, it has to overcome some significant hurdles in New York. So far, two-thirds of U.S. Helicopter's passengers fly to Kennedy and Newark, but many do not fly back to the city, creating an inefficient imbalance. Customers, it turns out, are often in a rush to leave the city to make a flight, but are more likely to head home, rather than go to the office, when they return.
 ''The problem is how you utilize the aircraft in both directions,'' said George Hamlin, managing director of Airline Capital Associates, a consulting and financial advisory firm specializing in aviation industries.
 In addition, helicopters use a lot more fuel when they lift off, land and hover -- maneuvers that make up about a quarter of the eight-minute flights -- adding to the expense, especially with fuel prices rising of late.
 The success of any scheduled service is based partly on whether there are enough flights, so carriers are forced to invest in aircraft upfront and hope for the demand.
 ''It's a classic aviation problem: You add seats when times are good and then the market goes down,'' said Dawna Rhoades, who teaches international aviation management at Embry Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, Fla. ''That's often what kills start-up airlines.''
 There are other variables. For instance, U.S. Helicopter cannot fly in dense fog or in icy conditions, and it has to delay or cancel flights when dignitaries use the heliport downtown.
 U.S. Helicopter's customers are mostly executives on expense accounts. While the stock market is reaching new highs and New York's economy is healthy, these high-end customers are likely to see value in spending $50 to $100 more for a helicopter flight instead of crawling through traffic in a taxi or limousine.
 Naj Alavi, who works at Xenomorph, a financial software firm, has happily paid 30 to 50 percent more to fly to the airport rather than take a limousine because he can use the time saved with clients or working on the computer.
 ''I'm working around the clock, so the 10 minutes in the helicopter is worth so much more than a taxi ride,'' said Mr. Alavi, who last week fit in a late afternoon lunch at Delmonico's before catching a helicopter to Kennedy for an evening flight to London.
 But when the financial markets inevitably sour, Wall Street firms are likely to curtail expenses they consider frivolous including, possibly, helicopter flights.
 ''It's a bubble thing,'' Mr. Mann, the consultant, said of commuter helicopters. ''When the market gets frantic, the value of time is presumed to be a lot more valuable.'' 
 A generation ago, airport helicopter service had its heyday, when New York Airways, which operated from the top of the Pan Am Building, now the MetLife Building.
 But the rooftop helipad was closed in 1977 after a spinning rotor broke loose from a helicopter and killed five people, including a woman on the street below. Pan Am ran helicopter service to Kennedy from the East Side and downtown heliports until it ran into financial trouble in the mid-1980s.
 U.S. Helicopter expects smoother sailing this time. Whether it turns a profit is another issue.
 ''The margin between break-even and making money is pretty thin,'' Mr. Hamlin said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Aboard a U.S. Helicopter flight. The carrier has been making hourly trips to Kennedy and Newark Liberty Airports since March 2006.
 Passengers boarding a U.S. Helicopter flight at the Downtown Manhattan Heliport. The shuttle service also uses a helipad at East 34th Street. (Photographs by Todd Heisler/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); HELICOPTERS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); AIR SERVICE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); FERRIES (65%); HARBORS & PORTS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007



580 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Bush to Tighten Fiscal Penalties Against Sudan

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 28 

 BODY:
President Bush will announce Tuesday that he is imposing stiff economic sanctions against Sudan -- including penalties against two senior government officials and a rebel leader -- and that he will press the United Nations for additional actions to end the violence in Darfur, two senior administration officials said Monday.
 The decision makes good on a threat the president made nearly six weeks ago. Mr. Bush warned then that the United States would act if Sudan's president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, did not permit a full deployment of United Nations peacekeeping forces, allow aid to reach the Darfur region and end his support for the janjaweed, the militias that have been systematically killing civilians there. 
''Bashir needs to stop the violence and provide for his people,'' said one of the officials, both of whom spoke anonymously on Monday evening because Mr. Bush had not yet made the announcement. ''He's been given an opportunity to do that and in the absence of doing that, we have to ratchet up sanctions.''
 Mr. Bush leaves next week for Europe to attend a meeting of the Group of 8 industrialized nations, where Darfur is expected to be an issue, and the officials said Mr. Bush wanted to act before then.
 Specifically, the president will take four steps, all effective immediately, the officials said.
 First, he will step up enforcement of existing economic sanctions against 100 or so Sudanese companies already barred from doing business with the United States.
 Second, he will add 31 additional companies to the sanctions list, barring them from any dollar transactions within the United States financial system. Of those companies, 30 are controlled by the Sudanese government, officials said, and at least one is violating an embargo against shipping arms to Darfur.
 Third, Mr. Bush also will single out two senior officials and a rebel leader for sanctions. The officials would not identify them, but said that Mr. Bush would do so in his remarks at the White House on Tuesday.
 Finally, the officials said, Mr. Bush will direct Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to seek United Nations approval for an international resolution to impose a broad arms embargo against Sudan and to bar the Sudanese government from conducting any military flights in Darfur.
 Mr. Bush has long been trying to find a way to end what his administration has termed genocide in Darfur, in western Sudan, where at least 200,000 people have been killed and more than 2.5 million displaced. He has been under intense pressure from human rights advocates to act, and many expected him to announce measures against Sudan last month in a speech he delivered at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington.
 Instead, Mr. Bush bowed to pressure from the United Nations Secretary General, Ban Ki-moon, who had been trying to pursue a diplomatic course with Mr. Bashir. 
 In the days before the president's April 18 speech, Mr. Ban called Ms. Rice to ask for more time to negotiate with the Sudanese leader, and administration officials said then that Mr. Bush decided reluctantly to give it to him.
 ''I have made a decision to allow the secretary general more time to pursue his diplomacy,'' Mr. Bush said then, while at the same time adding, ''The time for promises is over -- President Bashir must act.''
 Although the Bush administration has classified the situation in Darfur as genocide, the United Nations has not. The administration officials said the secretary general had been made aware of Mr. Bush's plans for sanctions, though they would not say if Mr. Bush had spoken personally with Mr. Ban. 
 It was unclear Monday night how Mr. Bush's announcement would be received at the United Nations. After the president's speech last month, ambassadors from China, Russia and South Africa said they were not yet convinced of the need for sanctions. 
 Mr. Bush is said by officials to be extremely frustrated with the situation in Darfur, and his top aides have been saying for months that they were upset with Sudan's refusal to permit the deployment of United Nations peacekeepers in the country or to allow relief aid to reach the region.
 At the same time, saving Darfur has become a powerful political cause, not only among human rights advocates but also among religious groups, including some of the Christian conservatives who make up Mr. Bush's political base.
 The administration's frustration spilled out in the open in March, when Andrew S. Natsios, the United States special envoy to Sudan, laid out the package of sanctions that the president is to announce on Tuesday in testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
 Then, just a day before Mr. Bush's April speech at the Holocaust Museum, a confidential United Nations study found that Sudan was flying arms and heavy equipment into Darfur in planes painted white, apparently to masquerade as United Nations jets. 
 In the weeks since that speech, the administration officials said, they saw little change in Darfur. If anything, they said, the violence there grew worse. ''In the time since that speech at the Holocaust museum, he has done nothing to meet his obligations,'' one of the officials said of Mr. Bashir. ''Instead, he's bombed a meeting of religious leaders, he kept food from his people, they painted an aircraft white to look like a U.N. jet.''
 The officials were asked how many people have died since Mr. Bush gave the speech. ''I couldn't say we have specific numbers on how many people have died,'' one of them said, though he added, ''The displacement numbers have only grown.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ARMS EMBARGOES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); GENOCIDE (77%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); DISPLACED PERSONS (72%); HOLOCAUST (69%); ARMS TRADE (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); BAN KI-MOON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007



581 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Accounts

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
U.S. Cellular, Chicago, shifted its creative account to Publicis & Hal Riney, San Francisco, part of the Publicis Groupe, from Doner, Southfield, Mich. Spending was estimated at $75 million to $100 million. 
 Cost Plus, Oakland, Calif., chose GSD&M, Austin, Tex., part of the Omnicom Group, as the first agency of record for its chain of 294 stores, operating under the names World Market and Cost Plus World Market. Spending for the coming year was estimated at $60 million.
 Miller Brewing, Milwaukee, part of SABMiller, hired Saatchi & Saatchi, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, to create campaigns for Miller High Life beer. The assignment, with spending estimated at $20 million, had been at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners, which resigned in March.
 The Lowe's Companies, Mooreville, N.C., selected the Chicago office of Tribal DDB Worldwide, part of the DDB Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, as its lead digital agency of record, a new assignment. Spending has not been determined.
 Virgin Atlantic Airways, a unit of the Virgin Group, placed its United States account in review after working since 2003 with Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners. Spending was estimated at $7 million. Crispin Porter is not taking part in the review, which is being managed by Gilbert & Company, New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (93%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (93%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (91%); PUBLICIS & HAL RINEY (91%); LOWE'S COS INC (70%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (69%); SABMILLER PLC (57%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (57%); MDC PARTNERS INC (56%); VIRGIN GROUP LTD (55%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (93%); OMC (NYSE) (93%); LOW (NYSE) (70%); SOSAB (JSE) (57%); SAB (LSE) (57%); MDZ.A (TSX) (56%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (70%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (70%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (69%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007



582 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Efficiency, Not Just Alternatives, Is Promoted as an Energy Saver

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WATERBURY, Vt. 

 BODY:
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters makes a lot of money selling individual servings of ground coffee in white cups that are churned out by the millions from a hissing, clanking production line here. But it recently found a way to generate even greater profits from the operation that will require only a modest investment.
 Spending $150 to $200 to install a more efficient blower to cool the laser that carves the date and batch number into each passing cup will cut Green Mountain's annual electricity bill for each laser by about $200, says Paul Comey, its vice president for environmental affairs. That might not seem like much, except that the company has 40 such lasers, which it plans to upgrade this week.
Green Mountain Coffee was persuaded to undertake such improvements in efficiency through an unusual effort by the Vermont Energy Investment Corporation, which is under contract with the state to find thousands of such energy savings. 
 Opportunities like this abound in the commercial and industrial sectors, requiring no new research or technology. But few places are doing an effective job of finding them, experts say.
 Vermont is one that is. Similarly, New York committed itself to pushing its utilities to do the same when Gov. Eliot Spitzer said recently that his goal was to cut electricity demand by 15 percent from what it would otherwise have been in 2015. That implies holding demand almost steady. 
 Renewable energy sources like wind and solar are getting a lot of attention these days as a way to reduce the impact of energy use on the environment. But even enthusiastic supporters of alternative energy agree that the easiest way to cut carbon emissions and air pollution is to focus more on efficiency, less on pollution-free generation.
 ''Efficiency is the steak,'' said Carl Pope, executive director of the Sierra Club. ''Renewables are the sizzle.''
 At a recent conference on energy efficiency and investment strategy, Pedro Haas, an energy expert at McKinsey & Company, said his consulting firm recently asked people worldwide what payback time they would find acceptable before investing money to save energy.
 One fourth of them said they would never spend any money to improve energy efficiency; 50 percent said they wanted to earn back the investment in two years or less.
 ''That means about 75 percent of the public will require economics that are just not there,'' Mr. Haas said.
 The alternative is to let utilities make the investment. James E. Rogers, the chief executive of Duke Energy, said he would like to persuade regulators to let his company invest in energy efficiency on customers' premises, and receive a profit on those investments. 
 For example, if buying an extra-efficient air-conditioner costs an additional $1,000, a homeowner might hesitate, he said, but the utility would not. Duke would offer to pay for the device and collect a monthly fee as a return on the investment over time by adding a small charge to the electric bill.
 It would also collect an additional amount from other ratepayers, but they would end up saving money over the longer run because the investments help hold down demand, lessening the need to build expensive new power plants, the thinking goes. 
 Ralph Cavanagh, an electricity expert at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said that utility returns average 15 percent, and that the willingness of the utilities to invest in relatively low-return generation projects while customers ignore high-return efficiency investments was driving consumption 20 percent to 40 percent higher than it should be.
 Mr. Rogers and other utility executives sometimes talk about ''decoupling'' electricity rates, to encourage utilities to help their customers save money. At present, most regulated utilities have their rates set by state officials by calculating how much money they would need for a fair rate of return, and dividing by the amount of electricity sold, to arrive at a price for each kilowatt-hour, or for a kilowatt of load. Spend dollars to make more power, and earn a return on that money; spend dollars to sell less, and watch your income fall. 
 The idea of decoupling peaked in the 1980s but after competition was introduced in the generating system, the idea lost favor. ''We had those discussions 20 years ago, and we need to have them again,'' said Diane Munns, the former chief utility regulator in Iowa, who now runs the retail energy services group at the Edison Electric Institute, the trade association of the investor-owned utilities.
 But not everyone agrees. Money for such programs always comes from all electricity customers. In several states, industrial customers have argued that they should not be forced to subsidize investments in other factories that lower their competitors' costs.
 In Vermont, a different argument has carried the day. Cutting electric consumption at Green Mountain's coffee roasting plant and hundreds of other places will eliminate the need to build some additional power plants, string transmission lines and fuel the plants. 
 The last few megawatts of power, from new generators and lines, is more expensive than the cost from existing plants and lines, so cutting growth in electricity demand also cuts high-cost supplies. 
 Nancy C. Floyd, co-founder and managing director of Nth Power, an investment banking firm that specializes in energy, said utilities may be best situated to promote efficiency because they already have a relationship with every building owner. 
 California has long enlisted utilities to help cut electricity use, partly by structuring rates so a customer's last few kilowatt-hours are extremely expensive, raising the incentive to buy more efficient equipment. The state was a pioneer in giving utilities rate increases for spending money to improve the efficiency with which customers use electricity. California has another enforcer, the threat of repetition of recent blackouts. 
 Decoupling is not limited to electricity; Utah just began an experiment in decoupling natural gas rates.
 Vermont took a different tack, hiring Vermont Energy Investment, doing business as Efficiency Vermont and describing itself as an ''efficiency utility.'' Some Vermont utilities were just too small to have effective efficiency programs, regulators said, and some did not have their hearts in the work.
 But no matter what the attitude of the utility, in most places the traditional ways of making energy still turn out to be easier to do than to save it. William R. Prindle, the deputy director of the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, a nonprofit group in Washington, said that it was simpler to finance and build a new power plant than to find the thousands of places to invest in energy efficiency, even if the dollars buy more power through efficiency than through new generation.
 But the incentives for energy efficiency are growing, experts say.
 ''When we started talking about this in 1990s in terms of energy efficiency versus coal energy, we were talking 4 cents a kilowatt-hour for coal, and 4 cents for energy efficiency,'' said R. Neal Elliott, the industrial program director at the council. ''Today we're talking optimistically, without carbon taxes, 10 cents for coal. With carbon taxes, we may be talking 20 cents for coal.''
 ''And energy efficiency,'' he said, ''is still 4 cents or less.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ray Bouffard, owner of the Georgia Market in Georgia, Vt., uses screens to make a meat cooler more efficient. (Photo by Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Ron Davison monitoring a system at Green Mountain Coffee Roasters in Waterbury, Vt. The company is investing a relatively small amount of money in more efficient equipment to save money in the long run. (Photo by Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); COFFEE (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); WIND ENERGY (79%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); EMISSIONS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); AIR POLLUTION (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (63%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (53%)

COMPANY: GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS INC (90%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (51%)

TICKER: GMCR (NASDAQ) (90%); DUK (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (90%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: JAMES E ROGERS (54%); ELIOT SPITZER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007



583 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Assails Congressional Bill on Immigration

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, in unusually pointed and broad language, criticized Congress yesterday for parts of a comprehensive immigration bill now being debated in the Senate. 
 Speaking after a Memorial Day parade in Laurelton, Queens, which has a thriving Caribbean community, Mr. Bloomberg said in response to a reporter's question, ''Shame on Congress, who can't get together'' on the immigration issue.
 The Senate bill has come under partisan attack even before the House of Representatives can propose its version. 
 Lawmakers ''should all look back on their history,'' said Mr. Bloomberg, a small American flag draped on his lectern as he spoke to reporters, ''and realize that if we had had the laws that they are proposing in many cases, they wouldn't be here because their parents or grandparents would not have been here.''
 The mayor spoke near what is known as Veterans Memorial Triangle, a patch of green maintained at 225th Street, 143rd Avenue and North Conduit Avenue by the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Post 5298.
 The teenage musicians of the Elite Marching Band of St. Albans, Queens, performed an earnest rendition of the national anthem. Cub Scouts fiddled with their kerchiefs during the grown-ups' speeches. Toddlers covered their ears and cried during a four-gun salute. 
 Mr. Bloomberg was especially critical of the guest-worker provision of the Senate bill, strongly supported by many in his own Republican Party. Immigrants would enter the country for three stints of two years each, going home for one year between each stint and returning home permanently after the third.
 ''The guest-worker program is a joke,'' he said. ''Nobody's going to go home for a year and come back. Nobody could ever enforce that. Nobody in their right mind would ever try to do it.''
 He reiterated his praise for the bill's rejection of mass deportations of the country's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants. About 400,000 undocumented immigrants are thought to be in New York City.
 ''We don't have an army big enough to deport them,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''It would destroy the economy if you deported them. They are here, yes, against the law, but they're here with the complicity of the U.S. government. The U.S. government deliberately looked away since 1986, the last time we had immigration reform.''
 He praised the bill's citizenship provisions as a promising start. ''Having something that gives them permanent status and some road to citizenship is a big step forward,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''You don't want that road to be so impossible that they can't do it.
 ''On the other hand,'' he continued, ''you don't want to also make that road something that doesn't include learning to speak English, learning the culture of this country, the laws of this country and the history of this country.''
 The mayor said immigrants were important to the economy because the population was not growing fast enough, millions of baby boomers were set to retire and too few younger workers would be left to finance Social Security.
 ''We need to have 400,000 to 500,000 more people coming into this country every year,'' he said, ''or you will not have anybody paying for Social Security. There is no Social Security trust fund. We spend the Social Security money that you're paying now, and when you get to the age you want to receive benefits, somebody else will have to pay that.''
 Not all the policy questions came from reporters. Adrienne Gordon, 14, an eighth grader at Tri-Community Junior High School 231, said she had three questions for the mayor.
 ''How come,'' she said quietly, ''teachers these days in school, they don't base their grades that they give the students on what they do in class? They base the grades on if they like the student or not?'' 
 The mayor smiled and said: ''I can't promise that every one of our 80,000 teachers does it the right way. But I think that most of them base it on what you do in the classroom.''
 Then, Adrienne asked what the mayor was doing to reduce class size. He acknowledged that even with the largest school construction budget in municipal history, the city had been able to reduce class size by only a small percentage. 
 ''But what the teacher does in front of the classroom is more important than class size'' in the long run, he said.
 The third question? In a voice that could barely be heard, Adrienne asked, ''I was wondering if you could take a picture with us?''
 ''That's the one I don't know how to answer!'' the mayor replied. ''Who has the camera? Is everyone in the picture?'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, left, discussed immigration on Memorial Day at the Veterans Memorial Triangle in Queens. Above, members of V.F.W. Post 5298 at a ceremony to honor soldiers killed in past wars. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (77%); ARMIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); GRANDPARENTS (68%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); MUSIC (66%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY & COMMON MARKET (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007



584 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: In a Switch, China Triples The Tax on Stock Trades

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Wednesday, May 30 

 BODY:
In an abrupt reversal, China's finance ministry announced early Wednesday morning that it would triple the tax on stock trades, a move aimed at braking what many business executives and economists inside and outside China now see as a stock market bubble. 
 Just seven days ago, the finance ministry and the State Administration of Taxation took the unusual step of publicly denying that they had any plans to change the tax on stock trading.
But the finance ministry reversed itself with a statement on its Web site early Wednesday morning noting that increased had been ordered by the State Council, the cabinet of the Chinese government. 
 By raising the tax, the government now runs the risk of being blamed by the Chinese public if it sets off a stock market rout. A composite index of yuan-denominated A shares traded in Shanghai and Shenzhen plunged 6.3 percent at the opening on Wednesday, but quickly rebounded to a loss of 2.7 percent by mid-morning.
 Millions of citizens have invested their savings in a stock market that has nearly quadrupled since the start of last year. 
 New investors, many of them with no experience in trading stocks, have been opening brokerage accounts at a pace of roughly 300,000 a day for the last two weeks, with a record 455,111 accounts opened on Monday.
 The Chinese government has long used changes in the stock trading tax to influence share prices, raising or lowering the tax at least six times in recent years. Investors have watched the level of the tax carefully as an indication of the government's position.
 The market had rallied sharply for the last week as investors interpreted last week's decision to leave the tax unchanged as a sign that the government would let the market set its own course.
 The finance ministry is tripling the stamp tax on stock trading to 0.3 percent, from 0.1 percent, effective Wednesday. 
 An early report of the finance ministry's decision by Xinhua, the official news agency, which came late in the American trading day on Tuesday, tempered trading that was initially buoyed by takeover deals and signs of consumer confidence in the economy. 
 Investors worried that the increased tax could be followed by a sell-off like the one on Feb. 27 that sent share prices down nearly 9 percent in Shanghai and set off a brief drop in stock markets worldwide. 
 But with a Chinese correction now widely expected, stocks barely dipped in early trading on Wednesday in Tokyo, while the Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong was down 0.5 percent by mid-morning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); TAX INCREASES (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); TAKEOVERS (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (68%); WEB SITES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (76%) EAST CHINA (91%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



585 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: Overbooking, Bumped Fliers And No Plan B

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
The summer travel season is under way, and so many planes are expected to be full that, if you are bumped, you could end up waiting days for a seat on another flight to the same destination.
 The number of fliers bumped against their will is expected to reach a high for the decade this year.
True, those travelers -- about 56,000 of them -- still represent only a small fraction of all passengers. But the increasing difficulty of rebooking bumped passengers has made the experience more maddening for fliers, and for the airline workers who deliver the bad news. 
 A look behind the scenes of US Airways at the widespread practice of airline overbooking shows the industry's struggle to fill every possible seat, including those left empty by the millions of passengers who buy a ticket but then do not show up. 
 The effort at times pits a group of young math whizzes at the airline against battle-tested gate agents, who are often skeptical of the complex computer models used to predict no-shows and to overbook flights.
 Some agents even take matters into their own hands, creating phantom reservations -- Mickey Mouse is a favorite passenger name, for example -- to keep the math nerds at headquarters from overbooking a flight.
 ''It's a little bit of black art,'' said Wallace Beall, senior director for revenue analysis who oversees overbooking at US Airways.
 Overbooking is one of many airline practices that are complicated by crowded planes. Airlines are running closer to capacity than at any point during the jet age -- an expected 85 percent or so full this summer, which means all the seats on popular routes will be taken.
 Airlines, of course, overbook to avoid losing billions of dollars because of empty seats. Inevitably, though, they guess wrong on some flights and too many people arrive at the gate. 
 Vouchers for free flights have long been used to convince enough passengers to stand aside and wait for the next flight. But now, more people are refusing the voucher -- which can vary from a small dollar amount to a round-trip ticket anywhere an airline flies (people who are involuntarily bumped get up to $400 for their troubles). 
 The reason is that fliers have figured out that with flights full, there are fewer and fewer seats to be bumped to.
 ''I usually volunteer to be bumped,'' said Pamela Ingram, a consultant who travels most weeks from her home in Binghamton, N.Y., and loves collecting airline vouchers for leisure travel.
 ''But not lately,'' she said. ''It's a different game. The wait can be days.''
 The number of people bumped involuntarily -- those refusing the voucher -- rose 23 percent last year and kept rising in the first quarter of this year. 
 The ranks of all bumped passengers last year, 676,408, was small -- unless you were one of them -- compared with the 555 million total airline passengers.
 Airline workers, of course, do not like bumping, either.
 ''It's embarrassing,'' said Brigid Mullin, a gate agent for US Airways here. On one or two flights a day, Ms. Mullin is left to explain to passengers that US Airways sold more tickets than it has seats on the plane.
 ''People are going to yell,'' Ms. Mullin said. 
 Mr. Beall, the US Airways official, said, ''Employees call in sick because they don't want to deal with overbookings.''
 Other coping strategies by agents include entering phantom bookings -- in addition to Mickey Mouse, they occasionally enter the name of W. Douglas Parker, the chief executive at US Airways -- to keep a flight from being oversold.
 But phantom bookings later show up in the computer system as, you guessed it, a no-show, and the system then will overbook the next flight even more.
 ''We call it the death spiral,'' said Mr. Beall's boss, Thomas Trenga, vice president for revenue management at US Airways.
 The airline has repeatedly told gate agents not to enter phantom bookings since US Airways and America West Airlines merged in the fall of 2005.
 At an employee meeting just after the merger, Mr. Parker was confronted about the issue by John Martino, then a gate agent in Boston. ''You know you're going to be yelled and screamed at to the point you have to call the police,'' he said.
 Mr. Parker replied: ''Why do we do so much of it? We will overbook as long as we allow people to no-show for flights; 7 to 8 percent of our customers are no-shows.'' 
 At some airlines, the no-show rate is higher, as passengers take advantage of refundable tickets, which include those bought by business travelers at the last minute. 
 The potential impact is huge. US Airways had revenue of $11.56 billion last year and would have lost out on $1 billion or more of that had it not overbooked, the company said.
 And with profit of just $304 million for the year, and with other airlines operating on similarly slim margins, ''we'd probably all go bankrupt'' without overbooking, Mr. Trenga said.
 That said, Mr. Trenga acknowledged, ''People view overbooking as something not on the up-and-up.'' 
 So, while he tells his neighbors that he oversees pricing at US Airways, ''I conveniently forget to mention the overbooking part.'' US Airways rates in the middle of the industry pack on bumping passengers.
 Of course, airlines could end no-shows and the need for overbooking by selling only nonrefundable tickets. JetBlue Airways does that, and no-shows lose the value of their ticket. 
 But business travelers, who pay the most, want refundable tickets and even JetBlue is considering offering them.
 The revenue lost by leaving a seat empty -- a spoiled seat, in industry parlance -- typically exceeds the cost of compensating a bumped passenger. Only fear of angering people keeps airlines from overbooking more.
 No-show rates used to be much higher -- 20 percent or more for many airlines. Many travel agent reservations were unreliable. Other bookings were duplicates. 
 At US Airways, into the late 1990s, the no-show rate was about 14 percent, Mr. Beall said, and its ability to overbook accurately suffered. ''We were stuck in an overbooking quagmire,'' he said. ''We had scant credibility'' with gate agents.
 But even after cleaning up its reservations and reducing no-shows to 7 percent to 8 percent, no-shows still vary widely among flights. 
 Mr. Beall entrusts the overbooking to people like Sherri Owens, 22. An economics graduate from the University of Virginia, she joined US Airways a little more than a year ago. Like nearly 50 other analysts, Ms. Owens uses software that scans the past no-show rate on flights, breaking it down among as many as 26 fare levels. 
 People paying the cheapest fares, which are typically nonrefundable, show up; those paying the most, usually refundable fares for business travelers, are more frequently no-shows. Midwesterners show up. People leaving Las Vegas often do not.
 The software then takes note of the fares people are booking on a coming flight and estimates the number that will not show. Airlines overbook more aggressively early in the day, knowing they can find seats for those bumped as the day goes on.
 Ms. Owens, along with her main job of setting various fares on a single flight, tweaks the overbooking numbers. Then, each week a report comes out that lists all US Airways flights that bumped 10 or more people. The analyst with the most flights on the report is stuck with a stuffed toy crow for the week. And occasionally they hear from angry airport workers who handled the bumping.
 The week of April 23, for instance, 18 flights had 10 or more passengers bumped. Half those flights had fewer seats than were sold because of weather-related weight restrictions or substitution of a smaller plane, including a flight from Phoenix to Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, that left 37 passengers behind.
 On others the airline guessed wrong. A Phoenix-to-San Diego flight, normally with 10 percent of passengers not showing, overbooked by 17 percent. Only 3 percent no-showed. Thirteen people were left behind.
 The following week, just 11 flights made the double-digit list. A Las Vegas-to-Boston flight left 10 behind, including 8 involuntary bumps, when it was overbooked by 13 percent, despite the computer system's listing past flights with only 5 percent no-shows. 
 Analysts are supposed to explain such failures, but the comments offered for that flight ''are erroneous,'' Mr. Beall said, scanning the report. ''In a perfect world, a manager would force the analyst to come back'' and explain. Time-pressed, however, he said, ''I can't guarantee that would happen.''
 The analysts are somewhat insulated. Ms. Owens said she had never personally been bumped from a flight. Airport workers regularly ask her to book fewer people on some flights.
 ''It's something we look into,'' she said. ''They remember the flights that oversold and not the five that went out fine. We have all the data in front of us. Normally I compromise between what they're asking and what I would like it at.''
 When employees like Ms. Owens become proficient at the art of overbooking, they tend to leave for other jobs, her boss, Mr. Beall, said. 
 ''They used to stay for two to two and one half years. Now they stay for one and one half. It takes three months to train them,'' he said. 
 ''In-depth knowledge is fleeting.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brigid Mullin, a gate agent for US Airways in Phoenix, said she often must explain the overbooking of flights to passengers.
 Checking in at the US Airways counter in Phoenix for a flight to Cabo San Lucas, Mexico. There were enough no-shows that no one was bumped. (Photographs by Jeff Topping for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: ''Bumping on the Rise'' The number of domestic airline passengers voluntarily bumped - those who agree to take a flight voucher or other inducement to miss their original flight because it was overbooked - has declined since 2000. But those bumped involuntarily last year were at the highest level since 2000, in part because passengers know that all flights are so crowded these days that the ''next available flight'' can involve a much longer wait. Graphs track Passengers voluntarily bumped, Passengers involuntarily bumped and Percentage of seats sold on domestic flights since 2000. Number of passengers per 10,000 bumped (voluntarily and involuntarily) Northwest Airlines 2006 -- 15.9 2005 -- 16.0 Delta Air Lines 2006 -- 14.6 2005 -- 12.4 US Airways 2006 -- 13.4 2005 -- 13.2 Southwest Airlines 2006 -- 12.1 2005 -- 9.0 United Airlines 2006 -- 11.9 2005 -- 13.4 Continental Airlines 2006 -- 11.4 2005 -- 12.5 American Airlines 2006 -- 10.1 2005 -- 9.5 (Sources by Department of Transportation, Air Transport Association, Office of Aviation Enforcement and Proceedings)(pg. C4) Chart: ''More Tickets Than Seats'' When airlines estimate the number of no-show passengers too high or too low, and overbook accordingly, it proves costly to them, as recent US Airways flights show. Didn't overbook enough Flight -- No.855 May 18, 2007 Orlando to Washington Reagan National Plane's Capacity -- 132 Route's History Average No-show -- 2 percent Authorized to Sell -- 135 seats Booked -- 135 seats Passengers/Seats -- 120 showed up leaving 12 empty seats Cost -- Could have sold empty seats for $315.56 each, or total of $3,786.72. Overbooked too much Flight -- No.1163 May 18, 2007 Phoenix to Los Angeles Plane's Capacity -- 112 Route's History Average No-show -- 11 percent Authorized to Sell -- 126 seats Booked -- 126 seats Passengers/Seats -- 122 showed up. 10 denied boarding - all put on sameday US Air flights that had seats available. Cost -- $2,000 worth of flight vouchers and a $5 food voucher for one passenger. Total of $2,005. Overbooked too much Flight -- No.1704 May 18, 2007 Las Vegas to Charlotte, N.C. Plane's Capacity -- 185 Route's History Average No-show -- 5 percent Authorized to Sell -- 194 seats Booked -- 194 seats Passengers/Seats -- 191 showed up. 6 denied boarding - 1 put on sameday US Air flight, 5 put in hotel. Cost -- $1,200 flight vouchers, $200 for 4 hotel rooms, $125 for five meal vouchers. Total of $1,525. (Source by US Airways)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); AIR FARES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (75%); LEISURE TRAVEL (73%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (51%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



586 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; FEED ME; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: At Midday, You See All Types

BYLINE: By Alex Witchel

 BODY:
IN the rest of the country ''I love you'' may be the three sweetest words in the English language, but in New York nothing beats, ''My lunch canceled.'' 
 Because, really, what is the point of the business lunch? The one thing it never seems to be about is business, which in my experience usually gets done on the fly when you least expect it. Like between meetings. The lunch is inevitably a culinarily-challenged affair (save me, Lord, from another sodden salade nicoise), with feigned interest on both sides over the stunning achievements of one's gifted third grader, say, or the mind-numbing details of the other's impending fly-fishing trip.
If there's business involved at all, it's usually tucked between coffee and the long-awaited getaway, almost as an afterthought. Because the pretense of the exercise is, ''We're such great pals, why talk business?'' 
 Even worse than the business lunch is the power lunch at a place like Michael's, which is all about showboating. I was taken there a few times, years ago, before I located my inner 2-year-old and remembered how to scream, ''No!'' Just reading about it is enough to give me hives. All that hair, makeup and wardrobe so early in the day, not to mention the resurrected social pressure of the junior high school cafeteria. Look up front! Who's sitting with the popular kids? 
 Who cares? You're not.
 And when it comes to the meal, kiss the French fries goodbye. Like the power breakfast, the point of the power lunch is to starve. You're too important to do something as plebian as eat. An appetite is so base. Instead, you must avail yourself as sparingly as possible of the kitchen's exclusively high-caliber lean proteins, like the chicken that was raised on a farm near Petaluma where it not only roamed free but read Aeschylus in the original Greek. After all, your food should know the right people, too.
 You can't demean yourself by eating bread, certainly, so forget craving a sandwich. Besides, if you ate one, how could you leap to your feet to shake the prom king's hand with your greasy fingers?
 My preferred variety of lunch is the working lunch. Like the other two, it's never about food. But instead of ''getting to know you'' or ''getting to applaud you,'' it's actually about getting something done. Which, in my case, is usually an interview. I have found that it's easier to push aside the plate of uninspired food and grab bread with one hand while writing with the other. And while I'm usually glad to empty the basket myself, the one time I would have happily shared was at an interview I did years ago with the late Dr. Robert C. Atkins. Between his disturbingly gray complexion and sour ketosis breath, that was a man in desperate need of a roll.
 I would go so far as to say that lunch in a restaurant, like good deeds, is best when it's voluntary and anonymous. The ideal is to savor one on vacation, far away, with people you love, eating or drinking something you would never dare in real life -- an extra glass of wine or a hot fudge sundae -- just because you want it. Sometimes, lunch has to be about pleasure. 
 I was reminded of this a few weeks ago, on a Saturday, when I decided to take a ''vacation'' day in the city and finally -- only two years late -- see the Museum of Modern Art after its major renovation. 
 I thought about starting at one of those places on Madison Avenue that are always filled with people eating al fresco at 3 p.m., the women in $800 sunglasses, the men in suntans (Where do they come from, these people? Why am I working in the middle of the day and they're not? And why have none of them remembered me in their wills?), but my sunglasses date to 1990, so that was out.
 I decided to be economical with time and chose the Bar Room at the Modern instead. It is decidedly less Euro than Madison Avenue but, situated at MoMA, just off Fifth Avenue, high-toned just the same. There's something to be said for losing yourself in a space full of stylish strangers toting shopping bags. They gave the place a festive, birthday party feel. The glass of white Burgundy was genius. As was the poussin with braised hearts of romaine, Parmesan and anchovy, a clever, cooked riff on a Caesar salad.
 My husband and I dawdled over coffee because it was so pleasant to do so. I heard the giddy, older couple at the next table ask the waiter, ''Could we just stay until dinner?''
 He assured them they could and, although we considered staying with them, eventually soldiered onward. When it comes to lunch, it's best never to push your luck. ROASTED POUSSIN WITH BRAISED HEARTS OF ROMAINE, PARMESAN AND ANCHOVY
 Adapted from the Modern Time: 30 minutes 4 tablespoons grapeseed oil 2 poussins, 1 pound each (or substitute two one-pound Cornish hens), halved and boned except for the wing 2 romaine hearts, split lengthwise 2 teaspoons salted cured anchovy, rinsed, filleted and diced 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 cup rich chicken stock Fleur de sel and freshly ground and cracked black pepper 2 teaspoons Dijon mustard 12 seedless, skinless segments of lemon 1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 3 ounces shaved Parmesan, for serving Lemon wedges for garnish, optional. 1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Place a large ovenproof skillet over high heat and add 1 tablespoon grapeseed oil. Add poussin halves skin side down and sear until well browned. Transfer pan to oven and roast until skin is crispy, 5 to 7 minutes. 2. While poussins roast, place a large heavy skillet over high heat until very hot. Add remaining 3 tablespoons grapeseed oil. When oil is hot, add romaine hearts cut side down and press with a spatula until well browned. Turn hearts over and add anchovies and garlic. Add chicken stock and stir, scraping pan bottom, until stock is reduced by half. Remove pan from heat and use tongs to transfer romaine to a platter lined with paper towels. Season to taste with fleur de sel and ground pepper; reserve pan. 3. Preheat broiler. Leaving poussins skin side down, brush them with mustard and broil until lightly browned, about 2 minutes. Remove from heat and keep warm. Return skillet to medium heat. Add lemon segments and allow sauce to reduce to a glaze. Remove from heat and whisk in olive oil. 4. To serve, spread romaine across a large serving platter. Place 6 to 8 shavings of Parmesan over each piece of romaine, and arrange poussins over top. Drizzle sauce around platter and over poussins. Sprinkle with cracked black pepper to taste, and, if desired, garnish with lemon wedges. Serve hot. Yield: 4 servings. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: LUNCH SPECIAL -- Poussin with braised romaine from the Bar Room at the Modern. (Photo by Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (74%); SPORT FISHING (71%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



587 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: A First in Nigeria: a Peaceful Succession of Power

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: ABUJA, Nigeria, May 29 

 BODY:
This time, the shots were fired in celebration. 
 For the first time in Nigeria's coup-riddled history, power passed between two civilians, as the army hailed the new president, Umaru Yar'Adua, with a 21-gun salute on Tuesday. 
While many Nigerians agreed the days of the military's political domination officially ended with Mr. Yar'Adua's inauguration on a parade ground, they also said it did not mean Nigeria, Africa's most populous nation, was pointing the way for other countries on the road to democracy.
 The departing president, Olusegun Obasanjo, celebrated the transfer of power to his party's candidate, Mr. Yar'Adua, saying Nigeria had ''eliminated the risk of violent changes of government through coups and countercoups in our political culture.'' Barred from running again by constitutional term limits, Mr. Obasanjo has praised Mr. Yar'Adua's election as having ''deepened and strengthened democracy.''
 Mr. Yar'Adua, however, won an April vote that the opposition called the worst since independence from Britain in 1960 and that international observers deemed not credible. Ballot boxes and stacks of voting cards were stolen as the police looked on.
 Still, many Nigerians say even flawed civilian rule is preferable to government by generals in their nation.
 ''There is hope for this country with the successful handover of power from one civilian government to another, but I wish this could have happened under a widely accepted electoral process devoid of all the inadequacies that characterized the elections,'' said Wale Fapohunda, a resident of Abuja.
 Charles Dokubo, an analyst at the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs, said Mr. Yar'Adua faced a crisis of legitimacy as he took on the country's problems, including violence in the oil heartland that has cut petroleum output by a third. Nigeria is Africa's biggest producer of oil and a major supplier of crude to the United States.
 ''Because of the shortcoming of the elections, it's not really a milestone,'' Mr. Dokubo said of the inauguration. ''There's a cloud of suspicion now across the country.''
 Corruption, mismanagement and poor infrastructure have hobbled the economy and left a vast majority of Nigeria's 140 million people living in poverty. 
 Mr. Obasanjo's 1999 election ended decades of near-constant military rule, including a particularly brutal 15-year phase that began in 1984.
 Under civilian rule, Nigerians say they have gained freedoms and their country has shaken its reputation as an international pariah run by generals bent on looting the public coffers. Mr. Obasanjo also cleared the country's books of billions of dollars of debt racked up by military rulers and helped end at least two of West Africa's civil wars by sending troops to intervene.
 But many Nigerians say graft continued to flourish under Mr. Obasanjo, pointing to the recent election as a case in point. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nigeria's new president, Umaru Yar'Adua, took office yesterday in Abuja. After a history of military coups, Mr. Yar'Adua's inauguration was the country's first peaceful transition of power between civilians. (Photo by Andrew Esiebo/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ARMIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); TERM LIMITS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTION LAW (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (62%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); POOR POPULATION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (99%); AFRICA (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



588 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1752 words

HEADLINE: Overhaul of Immigration Law Could Reshape New York

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Few places in the United States could be more deeply affected by the proposed overhaul of legal immigration than New York, say scholars and demographers of immigration. 
 The proposed law certainly would not end the flow of legal immigration to New York. But it could profoundly alter the currents that have long fed the city's mom and pop entrepreneurship, its kaleidoscopic diversity, and family networks that nurture and help assimilate newcomers.
More of the city's newcomers, compared with immigrants in other parts of the country, continue to gain entry through the very family visas that the pending bill would restrict or abolish -- and that would be replaced with a point system based on skills and education. 
 New York was front and center when Congress refashioned America's immigration system in 1965, replacing quotas based on race and national origin with a system centered on reunifying families. This time, with heated debate focused on illegal immigrants who cross the Mexican border and settle mainly in the West and South, New York's experience has received less attention. 
 Yet central to the city's storied comeback from the precipice of population loss and bankruptcy in the 1970s, most agree, was the big influx of unexpected immigrants -- an unintended consequence of the 1965 overhaul, sponsored by an influential Brooklyn representative, Emanuel Celler.
 These days, in a Lower East Side neighborhood that has been a cradle of family chain migration to America for 200 years, the deli at Delancey and Allen Streets is a 24-hour operation run by a man from Bangladesh -- one of about 70 relatives to follow a Bangladeshi seaman who jumped ship here in 1941. In luxury condominiums nearby, the newest residents include the affluent great-grandchildren of the eastern and southern European immigrants whose teeming poverty in the tenements prompted immigration quotas in the 1920s to keep out their kind.
 And when these newcomers need a key, they turn to Good Locksmith Inc. on Grand Street, a business run by the Lai family from China, who finally unlocked their door to America, relative by relative, after being unwelcome by law for a century.
 ''I love what I have now, and everything I have now, I work on it,'' said Steven Lai, 46, whose immigration at 23 depended not only on his mother's sponsorship, but on a long line of male forebears who endured 20-year family separations and exclusion from citizenship as they labored in the United States, first building railroads in 19th-century California. ''Family is more important than everything else,'' said Mr. Lai whose mother, Oilhang, 66, helps in the store. 
 Under the proposed point system, Mr. Lai would have been locked out. The measure aims to reduce chain migration -- the practice of one immigrant sponsoring others -- and to make room for those the federal government selects as the world's best, brightest and most easily assimilated. It would end preferences for the adult children and siblings of United States citizens, and eliminate a citizen's right to sponsor parents. Instead, the government would admit foreigners who scored highest on a scale that values advanced degrees, skills approved by the Department of Labor, and fluency in English, much more than family ties. Only those admitted on points could sponsor their spouse and minor children. 
 Yet immigrants like Mr. Lai, who learned English and locksmith skills at night school and opened his business 18 years ago with family savings, have been a vital economic engine for the city, said Gary Gerstle, a historian of immigration who teaches at Vanderbilt University. The city's record, he and others say, casts doubt on the dichotomy being drawn in the debate between family ties and other factors that might lead to economic success.
 ''The way that New York has come back is one of the great American success stories of the last 40 years, and immigrants are absolutely central to it,'' Professor Gerstle said. '' Mom and pop stores in New York have been a very dynamic force in the making of American society, and I would not want to see that possibility foreclosed.''
 Unlike the rest of the country, the city has experienced a plateau in its large and diversified flow of legal immigrants since a peak in the early 1990s. Its immigration accelerated in the 1970s through a classic pattern of daisy chain migration with ''seed'' immigrants sponsoring close relatives who eventually sponsored others. According to 2005 figures, the latest available, more than 72 percent of the city's 102,545 legal immigrants admitted that year came through family ties, mostly as immediate kin of citizens, and only 11 percent through employer sponsorship; in the nation, 58 percent came through family-based visas, and 22 percent through employment.
 Joseph Salvo, the city's demographer, cautions that such numbers are an imperfect reflection of the scramble to find a way through the immigration maze, not a measure of New York's family immigrants, who include large numbers of both the highly educated and the low-skilled. And he is confident, he said, that New York will remain a magnet. 
 To Jamal Hussain, 26, the Bangladesh-born owner of the deli at Delancey Street, it seems obvious that families, which can be banks and safety nets, are the foundation of success. He opened his deli with loans from relatives four years ago, and he points out that families also provide a screening mechanism and an incentive to succeed.
 ''They know I'm a hard worker, motivated,'' said Mr. Hussain, who has repaid the loans, married, had a baby, and bought a house in the Bronx. ''Kids are going to school, they're being doctors, lawyers,'' he added, citing a niece who is a graduate student in science at New York University. ''Bottom line, instead of bringing those people already educated from over there, we have the opportunity to be homegrown Ph.D.'s.''
 It is difficult to forecast the impact of the proposed changes on the mix and number of future immigrants, experts say. The bill aims to reduce legal migration in the future by eliminating family sponsorships outside the overall numbers set by government, and ending the diversity visa, which brings thousands of fresh ''seed'' immigrants by lottery to New York each year. But for the first eight years, it would grant family visa applications already in the pipeline, many stalled since the 1990s, when demand to sponsor foreign relatives far exceeded the numbers allowed in categories like sibling of a citizen. 
 Many people in the pipeline might no longer want to come, however; others are already here illegally. And if they overstayed temporary visas, like an estimated 40 percent of illegal immigrants, they would not qualify for legalization under the bill -- unlike illegal immigrants who crossed the border surreptitiously.
 ''If it was just geared to skilled labor, New York would be in trouble,'' said David Reimers, an emeritus immigration historian at N.Y.U. ''Like all big cities, it depends on unskilled labor.'' If family members are left out, he added, ''they're going to come in by hook or crook.''
 For now, the proposed system grants up to 47 points for special occupations -- to be determined later -- and up to 28 for educational degrees. Only if a would-be immigrant scores at least 55 points would additional points be awarded for family ties: 8 to a citizen's adult son or daughter, 6 to the adult child of a permanent resident, 4 to a citizen's sibling. 
 Such a scheme could affect New York disproportionately because among states with the most foreign-born, it has the largest proportion of legal to illegal immigrants, demographers say. Some of the city's immigrant groups, like Koreans, Indians and Filipinos, have such high rates of education and professional skill, however, that they could do well under a skills-based points system.
 But Seung Jin Jung, 43, president of the board of the Young Korean American Education and Service Center in New York, said he and his two sisters would have flunked on points 20 years ago, after coming of age in South Korea during a seven-year wait for visas while their parents worked in New York. The children spoke no English and had no degrees when they arrived. Now he has his own import-export business; one sister is a music therapist, he said, and the other is a physical therapist -- and both are working on their Ph.D.'s.
 ''The current proposed immigration change views the families of immigrants as an unnecessary burden,'' Mr. Jung said. ''That's the wrong approach. Take a look at what's going on in New York -- once you are here with family members, you not only become part of the work force in this country, you become part of the social fabric.''
 Cesar Gonzalez, 58, a Dominican immigrant whose family-run bookstore, Libreria Caliope, echoed the sentiment, noting that he and his brother Jose had little education when they were sponsored by an uncle and a sister. ''It's the same story for most of the people in the neighborhood,'' he said. ''Lots of them would be excluded. Only the well-to-do would qualify and people who already have an education.''
 Mexicans, mostly unskilled and illegal immigrants, are the newest group to emerge as a large presence in the city, demographers say. They are now estimated to be among the city's top three immigrant groups, joining Dominicans and Chinese, Mr. Salvo said, with about 350,000 in 2006, up from about 200,000 six years ago, including children born here. In dense and diverse city neighborhoods, they generally have been absorbed as just one more immigrant group, though in many communities in the metropolitan region, as elsewhere, conflict has erupted over their rapid settlement. 
 Peter H. Schuck, a Yale professor of immigration law who supports a points system to meet global competition, says most Americans do not want more immigration, and want to improve immigrants' quality. 
 ''We have a very valuable resource that we are distributing, and we ought to do it in full consciousness of what we want to absorb in the way of immigrants,'' he said. ''The country can't simply throw up its hands and say, 'We've done it this way for the past few generations, so we just should go on doing it.' '' 
 But Professor Gerstle points out that immigrant families who helped populate the city over the last 40 years have become part of its lifeblood. 
 ''They're New Yorkers, aren't they?'' he asked. ''A lot of Americans may think that's not American, but it isn't foreign.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 2, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the impact that a Senate proposal to overhaul immigration law could have on New York misstated a provision of the bill. Immigrants who are relatives of United States citizens and have overstayed their temporary visas could indeed qualify for legalization on the same terms as illegal immigrants who crossed the border surreptitiously. Also, the article referred incompletely to another provision of the bill. While it would eliminate the right of citizens to sponsor their parents -- a right that is now unlimited -- it would create an annual quota of 40,000 visas for which citizens could compete to bring parents into the country.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven Lai, 46, a locksmith on the Lower East Side, immigrated from China as a young adult, sponsored by his mother, Oilhang Lai, left, who works in the store, too. Mr. Lai learned English and the locksmith trade in America.
Jamal Hussain, 26, from Bangladesh, runs a deli on the Lower East Side, which he opened four years ago with the help of relatives. (Photographs by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Steven Lai, with his mother, Oilhang Lai, at their locksmith shop. Immigrants like Mr. Lai have been a factor in the city's rebound since the '70s. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); FAMILY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); POPULATION DECLINE (75%); CHILDREN (74%); LOCKSMITHS (74%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (63%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (50%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



589 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Gunmen in Police Uniforms Kidnap 5 British Civilians

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Reporting was contributed by Muhanad Seloom, Ali Adeeb, Ahmad Fadam and Abdul Razzaq Al-Saiedi from Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Diyala Province.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, May 29 

 BODY:
Gunmen wearing police commando uniforms abducted five British civilians from a Finance Ministry complex on Tuesday, British officials said. They seized a business consultant and his four bodyguards in an attack that revived questions about links between official security forces and criminal militias.
 The American military also said that 10 American soldiers died Monday in separate attacks, making May the deadliest month for American troops since November 2004. And in the capital, two car bombs blasted through congested neighborhoods, killing at least 32 people and wounding more than 100, according to an Interior Ministry official. 
The abduction occurred just before noon, when gunmen in a convoy of vehicles typically used by the police entered a guarded Finance Ministry complex in eastern Baghdad, took the civilians and left without firing a shot, according to witnesses and Iraqi officials. It was one of the most brazen, coordinated assaults on Western civilians at an Iraqi government building since the war started.
 The ease of the attack amplified concerns that elements of Iraq's government may be playing a more active role in attacking Westerners -- or at least allowing attacks to occur. 
 Last year, high-profile kidnappings by gunmen who appeared to be members of Iraq's security forces became more common, leading Sunni and American officials to accuse Iraq's Shiite-led government of using public resources for sectarian violence. 
 Tuesday's attack suggested that the same tactics were now being used against Westerners. 
 At the same time, some American military officials in Baghdad have recently said that a majority of the Iraqi security forces they work with report to militia leaders and cannot be trusted. Commanders in western Baghdad said several roadside bombs aimed at American convoys have recently been found within view of Iraqi checkpoints. 
 A British Embassy official declined to identify the captives but said the government's crisis management task force met this afternoon in London to ''resolve this as fast as we can.'' A second official said that only the five Britons had been taken; initial reports had said that several German advisers were among the kidnapped.
 Steve Lunceford, a spokesman for the BearingPoint, a Virginia-based management consulting firm, said one of the kidnap victims worked for the company, which has received contracts in Iraq from the United States Agency for International Development since 2003. 
 The other four hostages worked for GardaWorld, a Canadian security company with extensive contracts in Iraq, according to a spokesman.
 A witness said he saw at least four government-issued S.U.V.'s drive into the compound of the Technology and Information Directorate of the Finance Ministry, past a small group of guards, without being stopped. An Interior Ministry official said the convoy included 40 vehicles. Both said the gunmen abducted the Westerners and fled quickly. 
 ''There was no resistance,'' the Interior Ministry official said, suggesting that the Finance Ministry's guards either knew about the attack or were too intimidated to stop it. 
 The motive for the attack remained unclear. High-profile kidnappings of Westerners and Iraqis for ransom or propaganda have come in waves, cresting in 2004 and again last year. Roughly 300 foreigners, including civilians from the United States, Japan, Italy, Germany and several other countries have also been kidnapped since the start of the war, according to a Brookings Institution index of attacks.
 Thousands of Iraqis, meanwhile, have disappeared.
 In the most audacious assault on a government building, dozens of Iraqi employees of the Ministry of Higher Education were abducted in November from the ministry's headquarters in Baghdad by militiamen dressed in police commando uniforms. Many of victims were never found. 
 The building that was attacked Tuesday was under Shiite control. The finance minister, Bayan Jabr, is a conservative Shiite whom Sunnis have frequently accused of encouraging sectarian violence. 
 It was Mr. Jabr, the interior minister until last May, who oversaw the rapid growth of the Iraqi security forces as they were infiltrated by Shiite militias. He is a senior member of the Supreme Islamic Iraqi Council and was once a commander for the party's militia, the Badr Organization. 
 Mr. Jabr could not be reached for comment. 
 The 10 American soldiers who died Monday brought the total number of American deaths this month to 116, according to the Iraq Coalition Casualty Count, a Web site that tracks military and civilian casualties. Only two other months since the war started have yielded a higher toll: 137 Americans died in November 2004; 135 were killed that April. 
 Two of the soldiers died in southern Baghdad when a roadside bomb exploded near their patrol, according to an American military statement. The other eight died in Diyala Province, which has been the site of vicious battles between American troops and insurgents. 
 Six of the eight died from explosions near their vehicles, according to an American military statement. The other two died after their helicopter crashed. 
 Military officials did not provide additional details of the attacks. 
 Iraqi security officials in Diyala said gunmen shot down the helicopter around 6 p.m. One official said a group of militants rushed to the helicopter seconds after it crashed and shot and killed the two pilots. 
 Shootings, bombings and other violence also ripped through the country on Tuesday. In Diyala, gunfire in and near Muqdadiya and Baquba killed at least eight civilians and two militants, the police said. A roadside bomb killed one civilian, and the authorities found 11 bodies throughout the province.
 In Baghdad, the authorities found 30 unidentified bodies. 
 A suicide car bomb exploded in the violent Sunni neighborhood of Amil in the capital, leaving at least 20 people dead and wounding at least 85, an Interior Ministry official said. 
 A second bomb in a parked bus exploded in a busy shopping area of central Baghdad, killing at least 12 people and wounding 20. Witnesses said a sniper began firing at the survivors minutes later. 
 In southern Iraq, Moktada al-Sadr, the populist Shiite cleric, condemned the discussions on Monday in Baghdad between American and Iranian officials. He attacked the government of Iran for sitting down ''with the occupier and claiming it is for the benefit of Iraqi people and their stability.'' 

GRAPHIC: Map of Iraq shows the location of the Technology and Information Directorate: Kidnappers stormed the Technology and Information Directorate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (77%); TERRORISM (77%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: BEARINGPOINT INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



590 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Shoppers Upbeat About Economy

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Consumer confidence bounced back unexpectedly in May, helped by optimism about the job market even as concerns increased about inflation driven by gasoline prices. 
 The Conference Board said yesterday that its consumer confidence index rose to 108.0 in May, from a revised 106.3 in April. Analysts had expected the reading to fall to 104.5. The May reading was the highest since March, when the index was at 108.2.
''The short-term outlook remains cautious, and rising gasoline prices are having a negative impact on consumers' inflation expectations,'' said Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center in New York.
 The present-situation index, which measures how shoppers feel about economic conditions, rose to 136.1, from 133.5 in April. The expectations index, which measures the outlook of consumers for the next six months, edged up to 89.2, from 88.2.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); GASOLINE MARKETS (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); EMPLOYMENT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



591 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: Truth, Fiction And Lou Dobbs

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The whole controversy involving Lou Dobbs and leprosy started with a ''60 Minutes'' segment a few weeks ago.
 The segment was a profile of Mr. Dobbs, and while doing background research for it, a ''60 Minutes'' producer came across a 2005 news report from Mr. Dobbs's CNN program on contagious diseases. In the report, one of Mr. Dobbs's correspondents said there had been 7,000 cases of leprosy in this country over the previous three years, far more than in the past.
When Lesley Stahl of ''60 Minutes'' sat down to interview Mr. Dobbs on camera, she mentioned the report and told him that there didn't seem to be much evidence for it.
 ''Well, I can tell you this,'' he replied. ''If we reported it, it's a fact.'' 
 With that Orwellian chestnut, Mr. Dobbs escalated the leprosy dispute into a full-scale media brouhaha. The next night, back on his own program, the same CNN correspondent who had done the earlier report, Christine Romans, repeated the 7,000 number, and Mr. Dobbs added that, if anything, it was probably an underestimate. A week later, the Southern Poverty Law Center -- the civil rights group that has long been critical of Mr. Dobbs -- took out advertisements in The New York Times and USA Today demanding that CNN run a correction. 
 Finally, Mr. Dobbs played host to two top officials from the law center on his program, ''Lou Dobbs Tonight,'' where he called their accusations outrageous and they called him wrong, unfair and ''one of the most popular people on the white supremacist Web sites.''
 We'll get to the merits of the charges and countercharges shortly, but first it's worth considering why, beyond entertainment value, all this matters. Over the last few years, Lou Dobbs has transformed himself into arguably this country's foremost populist. It's an odd role, given that he spent the 1980s and '90s buttering up chief executives on CNN, but he's now playing it very successfully. He has become a voice for the real economic anxiety felt by many Americans. 
 The audience for his program has grown 72 percent since 2003, and CBS -- yes, the same network that broadcasts ''60 Minutes'' -- just hired him as a commentator on ''The Early Show.'' Many elites, as Mr. Dobbs likes to call them, despise him, but others see him as a hero. His latest book, ''War on the Middle Class,'' was a best seller and received a sympathetic review in this newspaper. Mario Cuomo has said Mr. Dobbs is ''addicted to economic truth.''
 Mr. Dobbs argues that the middle class has many enemies: corporate lobbyists, greedy executives, wimpy journalists, corrupt politicians. But none play a bigger role than illegal immigrants. As he sees it, they are stealing our jobs, depressing our wages and even endangering our lives.
 That's where leprosy comes in.
 ''The invasion of illegal aliens is threatening the health of many Americans,'' Mr. Dobbs said on his April 14, 2005, program. From there, he introduced his original report that mentioned leprosy, the flesh-destroying disease -- technically known as Hansen's disease -- that has inspired fear for centuries.
 According to a woman CNN identified as a medical lawyer named Dr. Madeleine Cosman, leprosy was on the march. As Ms. Romans, the CNN correspondent, relayed: ''There were about 900 cases of leprosy for 40 years. There have been 7,000 in the past three years.''
 ''Incredible,'' Mr. Dobbs replied.
 Mr. Dobbs and Ms. Romans engaged in a nearly identical conversation a few weeks ago, when he was defending himself the night after the ''60 Minutes'' segment. ''Suddenly, in the past three years, America has more than 7,000 cases of leprosy,'' she said, again attributing the number to Ms. Cosman.
 To sort through all this, I called James L. Krahenbuhl, the director of the National Hansen's Disease Program, an arm of the federal government. Leprosy in the United States is indeed largely a disease of immigrants who have come from Asia and Latin America. And the official leprosy statistics do show about 7,000 diagnosed cases -- but that's over the last 30 years, not the last three. 
 The peak year was 1983, when there were 456 cases. After that, reported cases dropped steadily, falling to just 76 in 2000. Last year, there were 137. 
 ''It is not a public health problem -- that's the bottom line,'' Mr. Krahenbuhl told me. ''You've got a country of 300 million people. This is not something for the public to get alarmed about.'' Much about the disease remains unknown, but researchers think people get it through prolonged close contact with someone who already has it.
 What about the increase over the last six years, to 137 cases from 76? Is that significant?
 ''No,'' Mr. Krahenbuhl said. It could be a statistical fluctuation, or it could be a result of better data collection in recent years. In any event, the 137 reported cases last year were fewer than in any year from 1975 to 1996. 
 So Mr. Dobbs was flat-out wrong. And when I spoke to him yesterday, he admitted as much, sort of. I read him Ms. Romans's comment -- the one with the word ''suddenly'' in it -- and he replied, ''I think that is wrong.'' He then went on to say that as far as he was concerned, he had corrected the mistake by later broadcasting another report, on the same night as his on-air confrontation with the Southern Poverty Law Center officials. This report mentioned that leprosy had peaked in 1983.
 Of course, he has never acknowledged on the air that his program presented false information twice. Instead, he lambasted the officials from the law center for saying he had. Even yesterday, he spent much of our conversation emphasizing that there really were 7,000 cases in the leprosy registry, the government's 30-year database. Mr. Dobbs is trying to have it both ways. 
 I have been somewhat taken aback about how shameless he has been during the whole dispute, so I spent some time reading transcripts from old episodes of ''Lou Dobbs Tonight.'' The way he handled leprosy, it turns out, is not all that unusual.
 For one thing, Mr. Dobbs has a somewhat flexible relationship with reality. He has said, for example, that one-third of the inmates in the federal prison system are illegal immigrants. That's wrong, too. According to the Justice Department, 6 percent of prisoners in this country are noncitizens (compared with 7 percent of the population). For a variety of reasons, the crime rate is actually lower among immigrants than natives.
 Second, Mr. Dobbs really does give airtime to white supremacy sympathizers. Ms. Cosman, who is now deceased, was a lawyer and Renaissance studies scholar, never a medical doctor or a leprosy expert. She gave speeches in which she said that Mexican immigrants had a habit of molesting children. Back in their home villages, she would explain, rape was not as serious a crime as cow stealing. The Southern Poverty Law Center keeps a list of other such guests from ''Lou Dobbs Tonight.''
 Finally, Mr. Dobbs is fond of darkly hinting that this country is under attack. He suggested last week that the new immigration bill in Congress could be the first step toward a new nation -- a ''North American union'' -- that combines the United States, Canada and Mexico. On other occasions, his program has described a supposed Mexican plot to reclaim the Southwest. In one such report, one of his correspondents referred to a Utah visit by Vicente Fox, then Mexico's president, as a ''Mexican military incursion.''
 When I asked Mr. Dobbs about this yesterday, he said, ''You've raised this to a level that frankly I find offensive.'' 
 The most common complaint about him, at least from other journalists, is that his program combines factual reporting with editorializing. But I think this misses the point. Americans, as a rule, are smart enough to handle a program that mixes opinion and facts. The problem with Mr. Dobbs is that he mixes opinion and untruths. He is the heir to the nativist tradition that has long used fiction and conspiracy theories as a weapon against the Irish, the Italians, the Chinese, the Jews and, now, the Mexicans.
 There is no denying that this country's immigration system is broken. But it defies belief -- and a whole lot of economic research -- to suggest that the problems of the middle class stem from illegal immigrants. Those immigrants, remember, are largely non-English speakers without a high school diploma. They have probably hurt the wages of native-born high school dropouts and made everyone else better off.
 More to the point, if Mr. Dobbs's arguments were really so good, don't you think he would be able to stick to the facts? And if CNN were serious about being ''the most trusted name in news,'' as it claims to be, don't you think it would be big enough to issue an actual correction? 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lou Dobbs was at the anchor desk for CNN's 2006 election coverage. (Photo by Robert Caplin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEPROSY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%); CIVIL RIGHTS (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (67%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (67%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



592 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: New Buildings Are Proposed Among Projects

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL; Colin Moynihan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Facing a $225 million budget gap, the City Housing Authority is planning to sharply reduce its staff and sell vacant land in its projects for development into housing, much of it for middle-income residents, officials said yesterday.
 Under a plan scheduled to be approved today, the authority is proposing to raise $50 million by selling parking lots and other open space at a number of housing complexes. Officials at the authority, which is the landlord for more than 400,000 low-income New Yorkers, said that although some of that development might include market-rate units, the income from the land sales generated would help preserve housing for the poor.
The city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, which often works with private developers to build homes for residents with a broad range of incomes, will buy the land, and expects to select developers for three projects on the West Side of Manhattan and one in Brooklyn within a few weeks, a department spokesman said. 
 At the same time, Housing Authority officials, who have been steadily reducing the agency's staff, plan to eliminate an additional 500 jobs by October, through layoffs and by letting vacancies go unfilled. The authority also plans to use $100 million from its capital budget, which is normally set aside for long-term physical upkeep of its 2,653 residential buildings, to help cover its day-to-day costs. 
 Despite those moves, the authority still faces a nearly $52 million budget gap for the current calendar year.
 ''This budget requires hard choices, given the limited amount of new aid provided by Washington and Albany,'' said Tino Hernandez, the Housing Authority chairman. ''The board is taking the steps necessary to ensure fiscal stability while maintaining our commitment to the residents of public housing.''
 The Housing Authority has struggled for years to balance its books as the gap between federal subsidies and expenses for items like pensions and heating fuel have continued to grow. Over the years, the authority has undertaken a variety of measures, including raising rents, freezing hiring, reorganizing management and seeking additional assistance from Washington and Albany -- assistance it usually did not get.
 Officials at the authority have abandoned efforts, for instance, to gain permission to use $117.5 million from federal programs in different ways from the originally intended uses. And they are still waiting to see if they will be able to use $27.7 million from a rent-subsidy program known as Section 8 for housing that was built by the city and state but no longer receives aid from them.
 Requests for $62 million in state aid yielded only $3.4 million, while a proposal to bring parity to the way the state helps welfare recipients pay for public and private housing -- which could ultimately mean an additional $46.6 million a year -- is still pending.
 In response, the authority is looking to reduce its work force of roughly 13,000 full-time employees by 500, a move that could result in service cuts at properties where there have already been reductions in weekend staff levels while rents have increased.
 Although officials in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's administration have been considering the idea of selling vacant land in the projects for years, they are only now taking the first major steps toward doing so. Housing Authority officials say there is enough empty or underused space within its developments to support 25,000 new apartments and homes, but that they are selling only enough for roughly 5,000 or 6,000.
 Among those parcels are parking lots at the Fulton Houses on 18th Street between 9th and 10th Avenues and at the Elliott-Chelsea complex on 25th Street and 9th Avenue. According to the city's request for proposals from developers, the apartments at the two complexes are to be affordable to a family of four earning $56,720 to $116,985 and single households earning $39,700 to $81,890. 
 At a similar development planned for a parking lot and basketball court at the Harborview Terrace Houses, on 55th Street between 10th and 11th Avenues, most of the apartments are to be set aside for those earning $43,249 to $116,985 for a family of four and from $30,247 to $81,890 for a single resident. The Manhattan developments are expected to create more than 400 new rental apartments.
 And a parking lot at the Linden and Boulevard Houses in East New York, Brooklyn, is to become a mixture of 180 two- and three-family and condominium town houses. At least 15 of the two-family units are to be set aside for households earning no more than $56,700 for a family of four, with the rest affordable to households earning no more than $92,170 for a family of four.
 The Housing Authority sees the plan as a way of leveraging its assets in a time of fiscal strain, but the Bloomberg administration also sees it as a way to ease the housing crunch for middle-class residents.
 ''We're creating more economically diverse communities by mixing middle income with the low-income populations'' at Housing Authority projects, said Neill Coleman, a spokesman for the Department of Housing Preservation and Development.
 Mr. Coleman said that while it was ''certainly conceivable'' that the developments would one day include market-rate housing, the department would be able to mandate a higher proportion of lower-cost housing because it was buying the land from another government entity at a lower cost than it could privately.
 Several advocates of low-cost housing said that they supported the approach in theory, and that mixed-income communities are desirable for those who live in them. But some warned against using public land for middle-income residents at the expense of the poor.
 ''Within reason, a mixed-income, economically diverse community is a good community,'' said Victor Bach, a housing policy analyst at the Community Service Society, which works with the poor. ''Because the site and the land is being obtained from N.Y.C.H.A., and N.Y.C.H.A. has a historical mission to assist low-income New Yorkers in providing housing that's affordable to them,'' he added, ''that should be reflected in a higher proportion of the housing going to low-income New Yorkers.''
 At the Fulton Houses, a dark red brick complex on a quiet, leafy street in Chelsea, a resident, Diane Humphrey, 46, could hardly agree more. ''This is supposed to be low income, not high income,'' she said. ''Rent's going up, it ain't going down. That's unsuitable for a lot of people. Our rent is going up and up. And now they're talking about building something else.'' She added, ''They should build more low-income housing.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Diane Humphrey lives in the Fulton Houses in Manhattan, where new apartments for middle- and even upper-income occupants may be built. ''They should build more low-income housing,'' she said. (Photo by Patrick Andrade for The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); APPROVALS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



593 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Physician, Upgrade Thyself

BYLINE: By Thomas Goetz. 
Thomas Goetz is the deputy editor of Wired magazine and author of the blog Epidemix.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
GO into almost any medical office, hospital or clinic in the United States and your records will still be handled the old-fashioned way -- on paper. You can use a computer to pay your taxes, to program your TiVo or to read a message from your great-aunt, but your doctor has to practically level a forest just to examine your medical files. The cost, however, isn't calculated in trees but in human lives: Electronic medical records would reduce the risk of medical errors and spare hospitals the expense of missing records and unnecessary treatment. 
 Health care providers have been dreaming about electronic records for so long that the idea has begun to seem like vaporware, a never-to-be-realized fantasy similar to flying cars and jetpacks. But there is already a clear software standard, an open-source system that's low-cost, easy to use and readily available. It could be the key to the health care system we ought to have already. 
The program, WorldVistA, is based on the Veterans Affairs Department's electronic-records system, called VistA (short for Veterans Health Information Systems and Technology Architecture -- and yes, they beat Bill Gates to the name). VistA stands as perhaps the greatest success story for government-developed information technology since the Internet itself. 
 Using the VistA record system, the veterans department has managed to improve nearly every benchmark of quality in health care. In a decade, the department increased its pneumonia vaccination rate among at-risk patients to 94 percent from only 29 percent. That translates into 6,000 saved lives and $40 million saved each year from fewer pneumonia hospitalizations. On a host of other benchmarks -- beta blocker use, cancer screening, cholesterol screening and so on -- the department outperforms the nation's best care. 
 Thanks to VistA, costs per patient at the Veterans Health Administration system are 32 percent lower, using inflation-adjusted dollars, than they were a decade ago. Over the same period, the medical consumer price index has increased 50 percent for the country as a whole. 
 The patients are happy, too. For the past eight years, the Veterans Health Administration has outscored private-sector health care in the independent American Customer Satisfaction Index. And because VistA is government-developed software, we all own it -- it's in the public domain. But while the government will mail you a copy, it won't help install it or maintain it. The Department of Veterans Affairs is, in fact, prohibited by law to stray from its mission to serve veterans. 
 So in 2002, a group of former Veterans Affairs programmers and open-source advocates formed WorldVistA. They set about making a version of VistA that was simple for health care providers to use, and the fruit of their effort is now ready for market. Like VistA, WorldVistA is robust and fast. In April, the software was approved by the Certification Commission for Healthcare Information Technology. The certification means that WorldVistA is ready for broad adoption. 
 The effort to promote WorldVistA is supported by a grant from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the agency that sets the prices for Medicare and Medicaid payments. The agency wants to provide clinics and public hospitals, especially those that serve uninsured and underserved patients, with an inexpensive system for electronic medical records. The agency was also just getting tired of seeing another year go by without a significant increase in the adoption of digital records. Right now, only a quarter of office-based doctors use them.
 The problem isn't a lack of software. There are hundreds of companies hawking electronic-records systems. But they don't come cheap. The average cost is about $33,000 per doctor, plus another $1,500 a month per doctor for maintenance, according to a study published in the policy journal Health Affairs. For a small clinic with one or two doctors, that price is usually out of reach. For major hospitals, installing a new system can quickly become a multimillion-dollar experiment. 
 WorldVistA, thanks to its public-domain origins, costs about one-tenth of what a proprietary system does for a license fee and a support contract. And like any good open-source project, it's constantly improving. A community of programmers fixes glitches and adds features, just as is done for the open-source Firefox browser and the Linux operating system. 
 And WorldVistA can be scaled up or down. It can work for neighborhood clinics, small-town hospitals, hospital systems, or, well, the Department of Veterans Affairs. WorldVistA's big promise is that it can become the nationwide standard for electronic medical records, the backbone of a national network of health care. Your medical records could be read instantly and understood (perhaps less instantly) by any provider, anywhere.
 Want to see the best knee surgeon in the country? If he's using WorldVistA, he can check out your online records at his house or office. If you switch jobs and move to a new insurance plan, you won't need to build a new medical history and FedEx old records around. With your permission, your files will be accessible to your new providers instantly. In this way, electronic medical records generate better care and lower costs.
 WorldVistA isn't perfect. It isn't as customizable as some proprietary systems, and its graphical interface isn't as intuitive or as polished. Worse, its back-office functions -- staffing and billing -- aren't all that strong. Major hospitals and health maintenance organizations in search of a Cadillac are free to spend the dollars to buy one. 
 But for the vast majority of health care providers, WorldVistA is what they've been waiting for: a low-cost, simple-to-use system that makes it easier to provide quality health care. If only it could upgrade the waiting-room magazines, too. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Harry Campbell) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (89%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (89%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (89%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (76%); PNEUMONIA (75%); CANCER (71%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (69%); VACCINES (66%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (64%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (62%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (60%); CHOLESTEROL (50%)

COMPANY: HEALTH INFORMATION SYSTEMS CORP (55%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



594 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Pretty Faces With Plenty Of Troubles, And Secrets

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
''Hidden Palms,'' the new series from Kevin Williamson making its debut tonight on CW, may be the first teenage soap opera visually dedicated to mid-20th-century Modernism. Remove the sex, sociopathology and possible filicide, and you will still be left with a quite inspiring home design show. 
 Set in Palm Springs, the last patch of Southern California this genre hasn't yet trammeled, the look is all Eames benches, Barcelona chairs and geometric patterns. The mood is severe, but the colors are happy. Mr. Williamson has created a sick world, but one for which you wouldn't mind having the swatches. 
The cliched aesthetic choice of so many single art directors, midcentury Modern isn't necessarily the easiest signifier of typical American family life, and that is precisely the point. The families on ''Hidden Palms'' don't convene at the table or watch movies together or talk about SAT scores or college admissions. The show is set during the summer, but still there is no evidence that any of the 17-year-olds in it actually go to school. 
 What kind of people decide to bring up children in Palm Springs anyway? As the resident satanic charmer explains to the newcomer in town, ''It's all retired grays, gays and streets named after dead people,'' he says. ''People come here to die.'' 
 The charmer is a high school junior named Cliff Wiatt, played by Michael Cassidy, an actor so good at conveying sham authenticity that even when he sniffs, it doesn't quite feel as if he means it. His mission is to keep at bay the new arrival, the economically named Johnny Miller (Taylor Handley, who, like Mr. Cassidy, is a veteran of ''The OC.'') 
 Johnny begins to suspect that Cliff might have had a hand in the death of Eddie, a teenager who once lived in Johnny's new house. And it isn't as if Johnny doesn't have a whole big pasta bowl of problems already. In another life he wore crew-neck sweaters and his hair neatly combed back. He cared about math and lived someplace where it rained. But then his sweaty, gin-drinking father killed himself, sending Johnny down the road to addiction, then rehab, then unbuttoned shirts and a coiffure in the mode of Jarvis Cocker.
 ''Hidden Palms'' is high soap opera, a kind of ''Masterpiece Theater'' of unjustifiable television, which means that there won't be anything quite so much fun to watch all summer. It takes its suspense seriously. It doesn't tease your attentions so much as kidnap them, with many of the tropes of Mr. Williamson's auteurism: the love triangles, suspicious deaths, bloody Halloween costumes and nods to gag horror. For the uninitiated, Mr. Williamson created the ''Scream'' films and ''Dawson's Creek,'' and ''Hidden Palms'' seems the inevitable hybrid of his opposing impulses toward satire and sincerity. 
 ''How does it look?'' Cliff's mother asks him when he's removing the bandages from her plastic surgery. ''It's bruised,'' he responds. ''But it looks like the noses two noses ago.''
 If I were watching ''Hidden Palms'' as a 16-year-old, I'd be grateful for whatever parents nature gave me, their refusal to let me drive the Jeep Cherokee be damned. It is hard to think of another television show of this kind that has portrayed mothers and fathers so perversely. 
 Ultimately, ''Hidden Palms'' derives its creepy tension from the question of how morally debased the show's parents will actually prove themselves to be. At best they are dangerously attached or uncommunicative; at worst, criminal, lecherous and pedophilic. 
 It is a good thing, then, that they haven't aggressively reproduced. The show is certainly true to the demographic realities of Palm Springs: not a single one of the young people appears to have a sibling. In some sense, ''Hidden Palms'' marks a radical departure in popular culture's depiction of only children, who for the better part of the last two decades have been depicted as self-reliant superstars or geniuses (Harry Potter, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Rory Gilmore.) 
 The teenagers on ''Hidden Palms'' make a strong case for benighted arguments that only children are socially maladjusted, neurotic, disturbed. It seems fairly certain that ''Hidden Palms'' received no subsidies from the Population Council. Hidden Palms CW, tonight at 8, Eastern and Pacific times; 7, Central time. Kevin Williamson and Scott Winant, executive producers. A Lionsgate Televison production in association with Outerbanks Entertainment. WITH: Taylor Handley (Johnny Miller), Gail O'Grady (Karen Hardy), Sharon Lawrence (Tess Wiatt), D. W. Moffett (Bob Hardy), Amber Heard (Greta Matthews), Michael Cassidy (Cliff Wiatt), Ellary Porterfield (Liza Witter), Tessa Thompson (Nikki Barnes) and J. R. Cacia (Travis). 

GRAPHIC: Photos: D. W. Moffett and Gail O'Grady in the new CW series ''Hidden Palms.''
 Sharon Lawrence, with J. R. Cacia, plays a flirtatious mother. (Photographs by Scott Humbert/CW)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); FAMILY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); FILM (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (72%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (72%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (67%); HALLOWEEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



595 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Iran Arrests Grandma

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Man, was I wrong about Iran.
 I thought this regime was powerful and self-confident, and actually felt strengthened since we destroyed its two main enemies -- the Taliban and Saddam. That could not be further from the truth. This Iranian regime is afraid of its shadow. How do I know? It recently arrested a 67-year-old grandmother, whom it accused of trying to bring down the regime by organizing academic conferences!
Yes, big, tough President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad -- the man who shows us how tough he is by declaring the Holocaust a myth -- had his goons arrest Haleh Esfandiari, a 67-year-old scholar, grandmother and dual Iranian-U.S. citizen, while she was visiting her 93-year-old mother in Tehran. Do you know how paranoid you have to be to think that a 67-year-old grandmother visiting her 93-year-old mother can bring down your regime? Now that is insecure. 
 It's also shameful. Haleh directs the Middle East program of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington. She went to Iran in December to visit her aging mother -- a trip she's made regularly for the past decade. According to her husband, Shaul Bakhash, himself a renown Iran expert in the U.S., while Haleh was traveling to the Tehran airport on Dec. 30, to return home, she was stopped by three masked, knife-wielding men -- Iran's Intelligence Ministry always needs three men and three knives when confronting a grandmother -- and they stole her belongings and her U.S. and Iranian passports. 
 This was followed by six weeks of intermittent questioning by Iran's Ministry of Intelligence. Then, on May 7, Haleh was arrested. Yesterday, she was formally charged with ''endangering national security through propaganda against the system and espionage for foreigners,'' an Iranian spokesman said -- apparently because of her work organizing academic conferences of Iranian and U.S. experts. 
 Why does Iran's leadership do such a thing? Because its hard-liners fear relations with the U.S. and want to scuttle the Iran-U.S. dialogue that began this week in Baghdad. Just like Castro's Cuba, Iran's mullah dictators thrive on their clash with America. The conflict gives them status among anti-American countries, our sanctions allow them to explain away their poor economic performance, and U.S. ''threats,'' both real and imagined, allow them to crush all legitimate dissent by labeling it part of a U.S. conspiracy.
 What to do? Obviously, one option is a military strike combined with fomenting revolution. But that could easily leave us with another unstable, failing state in the Middle East. I don't want to create another boiling Iraq. A second option would be more economic sanctions to change the regime's behavior. The third option is engagement aimed at restoring relations. 
 Alas, the Bush Iran policy has dabbled in all three, but never committed itself to one, and, as a result, Iran's hard-liners have been strengthened. The only way out of our corner now is to get some leverage. And leverage can come only from stepped-up economic sanctions -- particularly doing something to bring down the price of oil, Iran's lifeblood -- combined with aggressive engagement, like declaring that we don't seek the toppling of the regime and that we are ready, if Iran curbs its nuclear program, to restore full diplomatic and economic ties the next day.
 In other words, our only hope of either changing this Iranian regime or its behavior, without fracturing the country, is through a stronger Iranian middle class that demands a freer press, consensual politics and rule of law. That is our China strategy -- and it could work even faster with Iran. The greatest periods of political change in modern Iran happened when the country was most intensely engaged with the West, beginning with the constitutional revolution in 1906.
 Unfortunately, the Bush strategy -- diplomatic/economic isolation plus high oil prices -- has only frozen the regime in power and transformed it from mildly repressive to a K.G.B. state with a nuclear program. So now we face an Iranian regime that is both powerful and paranoid. 
 It has the resources to snub the world and its own people's aspirations. Yet, no matter how much this regime tries to buy off its people with oil money, it knows that many despise it. It's actually afraid of its own people more than anyone -- so afraid it even criminalizes scholarly exchanges between Iranians and Americans that the regime can't control. 
 That's why a 67-year-old grandmother -- whose only crime is getting people together in public to talk about building a better Iran -- is such a threat. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); ARRESTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALIBAN (77%); CONSPIRACY (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (79%); CUBA (74%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



596 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 864 words

 BODY:
 BUMPED FLIERS TO WAIT DAYS -- So many airplanes are expected to be full during the summer travel season that passengers bumped from flights could end up waiting days for a seat on another flight to the same destination. [Page A1.] TOO CHEAP FOR ITS OWN GOOD? -- A report prepared for Wal-Mart offers an explanation why the retailer has stumbled so badly when it comes to selling higher-end merchandise: ''Our low prices actually suggest low quality.'' [C1.] COMPUTER RETAILER IS SOLD -- The CDW Corporation, a leading online computer retailer, said that it had agreed to sell itself to Madison Dearborn Partners for $7.3 billion in cash, the latest big acquisition by a private equity firm. [C1.] THE DIGITIZATION OF PEN AND PAPER -- An ambitious new pen-based computer system that could bridge the gap between paper and the digital world, and perhaps even change the way millions of people interact with the Internet, will be introduced at a technology conference. 
[C1.] A $95.6 BILLION BID FOR AMRO -- The Royal Bank of Scotland Group and two other European banks made a formal $95.6 billion bid for ABN Amro of the Netherlands, challenging Barclays in what would be the richest banking takeover. Some 79 percent of the offer, more than investors expected, will be paid in cash and the rest in Royal Bank of Scotland shares. [C2.] A CHANGE AT NBC -- NBC Universal shook up its entertainment operations, hiring one of the hottest young production talents in television, Ben Silverman, as a co-chairman of both the entertainment unit and its TV studio. [C3.] SELLING A PALER SHADE -- Cosmetics and skin care companies are expanding their product lines and advertising budgets in India, offering a message that the modern Indian woman is independent, in charge -- and does not have to live with her dark skin. Advertising. [C5.] DEATH SENTENCE IN CHINA -- The former director of China's top food and drug safety agency was sentenced to death after pleading guilty to corruption and accepting bribes, the state-controlled news media reported. The unusually harsh sentence was ordered amid heightened concern about the quality and safety of China's food and drug system. [A7.] EASING FINANCIAL REGULATIONS -- New York's governor, Eliot Spitzer, is creating a commission focused on streamlining regulation in the financial services industry. [C1.] FEW ANSWERS ON RECALL -- Advanced Medical Optics offered no explanation on why its leading contact lens care product might be causing eye infections. And it said it would be next week before it could gauge the financial impact of the recall of its lens cleaner, prompting a sharp sell-off in the company's stock. [C2.] ZOELLICK CHOSEN FOR WORLD BANK -- President Bush has chosen Robert B. Zoellick, a senior diplomat and trade envoy who became a top executive at Goldman Sachs last year, to lead the World Bank and try to heal the bitter rifts left by the ouster of Paul D. Wolfowitz. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said that Mr. Zoellick, above, had emerged as the first choice of economic ministers around the world, who have been calling for someone to overcome the bank's credibility problems among donor and recipient countries alike. [A1.] RULING ON PAY DISPARITY -- The Supreme Court made it harder for many workers to sue their employers for discrimination in pay, insisting in a 5-to-4 decision on a tight timeframe to file such cases. The dissenters said the ruling, in a case involving Goodyear Tire, ignored workplace realities. [A1.] FINANCIAL STRATEGY ON SUDAN -- The Bush administration's new sanctions against Sudan aim to squeeze the country's economy by freezing Sudanese companies out of American financial institutions and curtailing their dollar transactions. [C3.] EUROPEAN FARMERS' NEW CROP -- Farmers in Europe, following their counterparts in the Americas, are beginning to grow crops that can be turned into fuels meant to produce fewer emissions than gas or oil. [C3.] BOEING'S BIGGEST DEAL IN RUSSIA -- Boeing sold 15 of its next-generation 787 jets to a private Russian airline, in a deal valued at about $2.4 billion, Boeing's largest sale in the former Soviet Union. [C10.] MARKETS EDGE UP -- Stocks ended higher, but China's move to cool its stock market raised concern about a global equity sell-off. [C10.] PRINTING WEB PAGES -- Hewlett-Packard will announce a new wide-ranging strategy that will make the trillions of pages crowding the Internet easier to print out. [C8.] SLOWING CHINA'S STOCK MARKET -- China's finance ministry announced that it would triple the tax on stock trades, a move aimed at braking what many business executives and economists inside and outside China now see as a stock market bubble. [C8.] ONLINE Business Briefing Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business. I.B.M. disclosed that it was taking on $11.5 billion in debt to finance an acceleration of its stock repurchase plan, which the company believes is one of the largest such steps ever. (AP) VeriSign, which manages the dot-com and dot-net domain names registry, said that its chief executive, Stratton D. Sclavos, had resigned for undisclosed reasons. (AP)

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph shows the Royal Bank of Scotland Group's share prices for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (91%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (75%); BUDGETS (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); COSMETICS (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); GUILTY PLEAS (67%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (67%); SENTENCING (66%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (66%); DRUG SAFETY (65%); BRIBERY (65%); FOOD SAFETY (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (52%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (91%); CDW LLC (83%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (67%); MADISON DEARBORN PARTNERS LLC (56%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (55%); ABBOTT MEDICAL OPTICS INC (51%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (91%); RBS (LSE) (91%); RBS (AMS) (91%); ABO (ASX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (83%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (67%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (67%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (50%); BEN SILVERMAN (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) CHINA (93%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); NETHERLANDS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



597 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap For Its Own Good?; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: An Ad Agency's Tough Report Says The Retailer Puts Off Some Shoppers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Low prices, it turns out, can be bad for business. 
 A confidential report prepared for senior executives at Wal-Mart Stores concludes, in stark terms, that the chain's traditional strengths -- its reputation for discounts, its all-in-one shopping format and its enormous selection -- ''work against us'' as it tries to move upscale.
As a result, the report says, the chain ''is not seen as a smart choice'' for clothing, home decor, electronics, prescriptions and groceries, categories the retailer has identified as priorities as it tries to turn around its slipping store sales, a decline likely to be emphasized Friday during Wal-Mart's shareholder meeting. 
 ''The Wal-Mart brand,'' the report says, ''was not built to inspire people while they shop, hold their hand while they make a high-risk decision or show them how to pull things together.'' 
 The document, prepared in October 2006 by the company's former advertising agency and based on interviews with scores of consumers, offers a candid, wide-ranging explanation for why Wal-Mart, the No. 1 seller of everything from laundry detergent to underwear, has stumbled badly when it comes to higher-end merchandise like silk camisoles and shag accent rugs.
 The report contends, for example, that ''our low prices actually suggest low quality'' for products like high-definition televisions. And it says that Target, with its designer-inspired clothing and furniture, feels ''like the 'new and improved,' while Wal-Mart often feels like the 'old and outdated.' ''
 A copy of the 55-page report, written by GSD&M Advertising, was provided to The New York Times by WakeUpWalMart.com, a union-financed group highly critical of the retailer. The group said that a person outside of Wal-Mart gave it the report.
 GSD&M, which has worked with Wal-Mart since 1974, submitted the report as part of an elaborate campaign to remain Wal-Mart's ad agency after the retailer said that it might choose a replacement last year. Ultimately, Wal-Mart chose other firms. 
 Nick Agarwal, a spokesman for Wal-Mart, said that the seven-month-old report was ''out of date and, in some areas, it is just plain wrong.'' Sales in the chain's pharmacy, electronics and grocery departments, for instance, are very strong, he said. GSD&M, a division of the Omnicom Group based in Austin, Tex., declined to comment. 
 Its report is at times prescient. As Wal-Mart's clothing and home furnishing businesses have struggled, sales at stores open for at least a year fell to the lowest levels in decades over the last 12 months, well below those of Target. The figures are not expected to improve much over the next year, unsettling investors.
 The GSD&M document offers a rare glimpse of the concerns that are buffeting Wal-Mart's retailing empire, from its flagging corporate reputation to the ''near catastrophic'' economic pressures faced by its working-class consumers. 
 Wal-Mart attracts 138 million shoppers a week, a staggering figure unmatched in American retailing, but the portion of Americans who say the chain is their No. 1 destination for discount shopping has fallen from about 75 percent two years ago to 67 percent today, according to the report. 
 No specific explanation for the drop-off is provided, but Wal-Mart's ad agency suggested a combination of factors, like stiff competition and public relations troubles. Those troubles have included a sex discrimination lawsuit filed on behalf of 1.6 million female current and former employees and firings of top executives, like the former vice chairman Thomas M. Coughlin, for stealing company funds. 
 Wal-Mart's rating as a company that consumers trust and respect ''steadily declined'' over the last two years, the report said, as labor groups and elected leaders criticized its wages, benefits and practices. ''While corporate respect may not be a highly rated driver of store choice,'' it said, ''this intangible quality cannot be underestimated.'' 
 Wal-Mart has said that its own analysis has found that just 0.04 percent of customers have stopped shopping at Wal-Mart because of its reputation. 
 Chris Kofinis, director of communications at WakeUpWalMart.com, said, ''Wal-Mart needs to realize that improving its public image and its business reputation demands they stop ignoring the fact that the American people care about values, not just value.'' 
 The report by GSD&M also says several big-box rivals are meeting shoppers' needs better than Wal-Mart. Best Buy, for example, provides ''information and knowledge'' to help buy electronics, the report says. Kohl's provides ''a wide selection of brand-name apparel'' displayed ''in a stylish environment that inspires browsing,'' it says. And Bed, Bath & Beyond has ''great displays that provide ideas on how to pull looks together,'' it adds.
 The economy is not helping matters, the report says. After living through the ''decade of affluence'' in the 1990s, Americans may now be entering the ''decade of retreat'' as real wages remain flat, fuel prices spike and consumer debt reaches all-time highs, it says, adding, ''We have a crisis in the making for America's working and middle classes.'' 
 A significant portion of the report portrays Wal-Mart positively. In interviews, shoppers said the chain saves them money, time and stress, which suggests that the retailer's low-price heritage is ''as relevant today as it ever was.'' Asked by GSD&M to describe Wal-Mart as if it were a person, some consumers compared it to a handyman, a grandmother and Uncle Sam. The report also asserts that ''for most people and for most shopping occasions, Wal-Mart is the smart choice.''
 The bulk of the report, however, examines the challenges facing Wal-Mart as it tries to transform itself from a chain focused on basic household items sold at low prices into one known for style.
 Wal-Mart's 200,000-square-foot stores, brightly lighted, minimally decorated and teeming with signs for price rollbacks, have served the chain well for much of the last 40 years.
 But now, as Wal-Mart experiments with contemporary clothing, flat-screen televisions and nine-layer lasagna, that format has become a hindrance. To a shopper who wants to purchase a single dress for an evening out or a DVD player to watch a movie, ''Wal-Mart's one-stop shopping format becomes a time-consuming irrelevant obstacle,'' the report says. 
 That environment is conducive to ''zero-time'' shopping, in which a customer spends just a few seconds thinking about a product, like a new bottle of dishwashing soap. ''But people don't buy electronics, home decor and apparel in zero time,'' the report says. 
 ''They shop for them,'' it continues. ''Those are slow-time shopping trips that require, unique, slow-time environments that provide a level of service, a sense of style and an array of ideas that inspires shopping.''
 Wal-Mart's advertising agency recommended a series of solutions, though the company has so far not adopted most of them. For electronics, it suggested creating a no-hassle, no-questions-asked returns policy that would make people feel more comfortable buying expensive televisions and stereo systems. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Well known for inexpensive goods, Wal-Mart is said to fall behind in sales of upscale merchandise. (Photo by J. D. Pooley/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (69%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (64%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%); OMC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (50%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



598 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STATEHOUSE JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: A Rocky Start for Nevada's Chief

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: CARSON CITY, Nev., May 24 

 BODY:
Life these days for Gov. Jim Gibbons of Nevada might kindly be described as suboptimal. 
 In the last few months, Mr. Gibbons, a Republican, announced a plan to turn coal into jet fuel to raise money (problematic, as Nevada has no coal to speak of) and proposed paying for a $3.8 billion shortfall in highway construction money by selling water rights under state highways (it turns out the state did not actually own the rights).
He told a local editorial board he could not pronounce the name of his energy adviser because she was ''Indian'' -- she is Turkish -- and vetoed a bill that would stop budget-busting tax breaks for builders of ''green'' buildings before issuing an executive order to end them anyway (with the exception of four companies).
 Mr. Gibbons is the subject of a Federal Bureau of Investigation inquiry into whether he failed to report gifts from a military contractor while serving in Congress. The governor, who would not be interviewed, has denied wrongdoing, and once suggested that Democratic operatives might have paid off newspaper reporters who have written about his troubles with the F.B.I. 
 And faced with a collapsing public education system and extensive state infrastructure needs, Mr. Gibbons at one point threatened to veto the $7 billion two-year state budget and shut down government largely over his desire for a security center in Carson City -- an idea that law enforcement officials dislike -- and his plan to save small businesses two hundredths of a percent on their taxes. 
 The travails have taken a toll.
 In a recent Mason-Dixon poll, just 28 percent of the 625 registered Nevada voters questioned said they had a favorable opinion of the governor, who took office in January. Only Congress fared worse, getting a positive opinion from 24 percent of respondents. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points. Whispers of an unlikely recall campaign, limited largely to cyberspace, are now in the air.
 ''The amount of controversy associated with the race, the election and now the first six months of office exceeds that of any other governor that we have ever had,'' said the state's archivist, Guy Rocha. ''Does that make him good, bad or otherwise? I can't say. Historically, we just haven't had this.''
 The governor's spokesman, Brent Boynton, who answered questions via e-mail, said Mr. Gibbons would emerge from his first legislative session victorious if he held the line on taxes and came up with a way to pay for his education plans.
 ''Many governors have seen similarly low numbers during their first terms and then seen the ratings rise later,'' Mr. Boynton said. ''Governor Gibbons is confident that the numbers were a temporary dip, and we have already seen signs that they are reversing direction.'' 
 But for the rest of Nevada, the doings in the capital have significant implications beyond its residents' chagrin. The explosive growth around the state has created dire financing needs for roads and schools in tight budget times, with a part-time Legislature scrambling to end its session before going home for two years.
 Further, with Nevada front and center on the presidential primary calendar -- its caucus is now set right after Iowa's -- the state can live without being the punch line of a national political joke.
 ''I think this just confirms people's worst images of Nevada,'' said State Senator Dina Titus, the Democratic minority leader, who was defeated by Mr. Gibbons in the governor's race. ''They think it is just the Wild West. Four county commissioners just went to prison, and with the pictures of the governor on the national news, what could be worse?''
 While Mr. Gibbons's Democratic critics argue that his troubles are unsurprising, few could have predicted their degree. Mr. Gibbons, a former legislator and largely invisible five-term congressman, gained stewardship of the state with less than 50 percent of the vote. 
 He took few strong policy positions in that campaign, and instead continually derided Ms. Titus -- already an object of suspicion thanks to her Southern accent and tough-edged persona -- as tax happy. 
 Among the more memorable campaign remarks made by Mr. Gibbons, a former combat pilot and veteran of both the Vietnam and Persian Gulf wars, was his suggestion that ''liberal, tree-hugging, Birkenstock-wearing, hippie, tie-dyed liberals'' ought to be used as human shields in Iraq. It all played well with Mr. Gibbons's base of voters in rural and Northern Nevada. 
 ''I think that probably there were some people who didn't expect him to demonstrate a lot of intelligence,'' said Michael Green, a professor of history at the Community College of Southern Nevada. ''And that he might not have much familiarity about state government. But the degree of controversy that has surrounded him, I think, has been a surprise to everybody.''
 While Mr. Gibbons has clearly lacked the traditional honeymoon of a new governor, in truth, it was not much of a wedding night. 
 He muddled through a bruising primary and general election, the latter overshadowed by an altercation with a drunken cocktail waitress in a Las Vegas parking lot. Prosecutors eventually dropped an assault case against Mr. Gibbons, citing insufficient evidence. 
 During the campaign, it was revealed that Mr. Gibbons, whose platform was heavily focused against illegal immigration, had once hired a nanny who was an illegal immigrant.
 Mr. Gibbons chose to be sworn into office 12 seconds after midnight on New Year's Eve in his home in Reno, citing ominous nonspecific security threats that aides later said pertained to the execution of Saddam Hussein. But security concerns did not keep his wife, Dawn, from wearing a velvet Giorgio Armani gown for the inaugural balls, which everyone knew about because she put out a news release saying so. 
 Mrs. Gibbons also announced a ban on alcohol in the governor's mansion, but then concluded that when a wing of your home is named after a local liquor tycoon and the state has a long and storied history of imbibing at official events, it is best not to deny your guests a glass of wine. 
 But it is Mr. Gibbons's legislative agenda -- one that relies heavily on the flexing of his executive muscle -- that has confused and at times infuriated lawmakers. His unprecedented order regarding the green tax breaks set off a minor constitutional crisis, and he has had a hard time getting even members of his own party to sponsor his bills, which were not introduced until the session's 11th hour.
 ''How do I give you a politically correct answer?'' said Assemblyman John Oceguera, the Democratic majority leader. ''He has a leadership style that is different than I am familiar with.''
 Republican colleagues are more complimentary, arguing that Mr. Gibbons is new to the job and needs time to settle in.
 ''Every time they think they have things under control, another shoe drops,'' said Chuck Muth, a Nevada political consultant and conservative activist. ''But at this point I would say that as long as Governor Gibbons stays true to his pledge not to raise taxes, as far as I am concerned he is a good Republican and he did well.'' 
 Mr. Gibbons's staff says that he is doing the job he was elected to do and that the people of Nevada will ultimately be pleased with him. 
 ''Every seven minutes, a person moves to Southern Nevada; one hundred cars are added to Southern Nevada roads every day,'' said Mr. Boynton, the governor's spokesman. ''Keeping up with that pace of growth, without adding taxes that harm the economic growth of the region, is a major challenge that the governor is meeting.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Jim Gibbons and his wife, Dawn, celebrating after he took the inaugural oath of office in January. (Photo by Kevin Clifford/Nevada Appeal, via Associated Press)(pg. A15)
 Gov. Jim Gibbons of Nevada had a 28 percent approval rating in a poll. (Photo by Cathleen Allison/Nevada Appeal, via Associated Press)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); VETO (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); JET FUEL (72%); WATER RIGHTS (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); WRITERS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%)

PERSON: JIM GIBBONS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CARSON CITY, NV, USA (92%) NEVADA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



599 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Oil May Provide a Way for Sudan to Escape the Full Pain of the New U.S. Sanctions

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
The Bush administration's new sanctions against Sudan aim to squeeze the country's economy by freezing Sudanese companies out of American financial institutions and curtailing their dollar transactions. 
 Administration officials described the sanctions as a significant move to raise the pressure on Omar Hassan al-Bashir, Sudan's president, to bring a quick end to the violence in Darfur.
But the sanctions will do little to stem Sudan's oil exports, which are the main source of the country's wealth, analysts said. They also noted that existing sanctions against Sudan, which date back to 1997, have been unevenly enforced. 
 ''Sudan has been quite adept at avoiding sanctions for the past decade, and this is not going to have a lot of bite,'' said Philippe de Pontet, a political risk analyst at the Eurasia Group in Washington. 
 In recent years, Sudan has emerged as a small but fast-growing oil producer, first with the help of American and European corporations and more recently with investments from Chinese, Indian and Malaysian companies. Sudan now pumps about 500,000 barrels of oil a day, bringing in enough wealth to set off an economic and real estate boom in Khartoum, the capital.
 The latest sanctions are specifically aimed at more than 30 companies owned or controlled by the government of Sudan. They include five petrochemical companies and the country's national telecommunications operator, Sudatel. 
 More than 100 local companies have already been blacklisted by the United States Treasury Department., among them Sudan's biggest oil producer, the Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company. 
 The company, which pumps about 300,000 barrels a day, is a joint venture of the Sudanese government and state oil companies from China, India and Malaysia, and is operated by the China National Petroleum Corporation. 
 Andrew S. Natsios, the special envoy for Sudan, acknowledged at a news conference yesterday that the new sanctions would have limited effects on the country's oil production and exports. 
 ''The purpose of these sanctions is not sanctions,'' he said. ''The purpose of these sanctions is to send a message to the Sudanese government to start behaving differently when they deal with their own people.''
 At least 200,000 people have been killed and more than 2.5 million displaced in Darfur, a region in western Sudan. The White House has called the violence there a genocide.
 In a brief speech in the White House yesterday morning, President Bush said: ''The United States will not avert our eyes from a crisis that challenges the conscience of the world.''
 The European Union has signaled its willingness to consider new sanctions against Sudan, but China and Russia have been opposed. Without an international consensus on more stringent economic sanctions, the United States has few options, analysts said. 
 ''We don't have much commercial activities or fat targets of opportunities for slapping new sanctions on Sudan,'' said J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Africa program at the Center for International and Strategic Studies in Washington.
 The companies named by the Treasury Department yesterday include a sugar producer, an automobile company and a vegetable oil producer. The administration also singled out two senior officials -- Ahmad Haroun, state minister for humanitarian affairs, and Awad ibn Auf, the country's director of military intelligence -- and Khalil Ibrahim, leader of a rebel group called the Justice and Equality Movement.
 A Sudanese foreign ministry spokesman called the sanctions ''unfair and untimely.''
 According to The Associated Press, South Africa's ambassador to the United Nations, Dumisani S. Kumalo, questioned the timing of the sanctions at a time when the United Nations, the African Union and Sudan are negotiating access to Darfur for an increased international force. 
 The Bush administration said it would seek a new United Nations resolution imposing an arms embargo against Sudan and would bar the Sudanese government from conducting any military flights in Darfur.
 But in aiming at Sudan's economy, Washington seems to be toeing a sensitive line. It wants to increase the pressure on the Sudanese government without alienating China, a top American trading partner. It is also apparently unwilling to consider outright oil sanctions against Sudan at a time when global energy prices are high.
 ''The U.S. does not want to alienate China and it doesn't want to take steps that take oil off the market, especially in the current environment,'' said Mr. de Pontet of the Eurasia Group.
 Yesterday, oil futures in New York fell $2 a barrel, to $63.15, after Nigerian oil workers ended a strike.
 David Rubenstein, executive director of the Save Darfur Coalition, said the United States should make Sudan a higher priority in its diplomatic relations with China. ''The Chinese have the most leverage to influence Khartoum,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); PETROCHEMICALS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (82%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); OMAR AL-BASHIR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (73%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



600 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: EX-TRADE ENVOY IS BUSH'S CHOICE FOR WORLD BANK

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 29 

 BODY:
President Bush has chosen Robert B. Zoellick, a senior diplomat and trade envoy who became a top Goldman Sachs executive last year, to lead the World Bank and try to heal the bitter rifts left by the ouster of Paul D. Wolfowitz, the administration said Tuesday.
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said Mr. Zoellick had emerged as the first choice of economic ministers around the world, who have been calling for someone to overcome the bank's credibility problems among donor and recipient countries alike. 
''Bob has a very strong track record working with colleagues and leaders to get results,'' Mr. Paulson said in an interview after word of the appointment spread. ''He's got great energy and enthusiasm and will be able to hit the ground running. I also think he's got strong management capabilities.''
 Mr. Zoellick, 53, has served in high-ranking foreign policy and economic policy posts under three Republican presidents, beginning with Ronald Reagan. His selection is to be announced by Mr. Bush on Wednesday.
 Mr. Zoellick plans to visit the bank and meet its staff almost immediately, administration officials said, and the bank's 24-member board of directors is to vote on the nomination soon afterward.
 He faces an institution riven not only by the travails of Mr. Wolfowitz, who resigned this month amid charges of favoritism, but also by major disagreements among donor nations over the bank's mission.
 Many conservative supporters of the Bush administration, resentful over Mr. Wolfowitz's resignation, are insisting the United States keep up the pressure on the bank to carry out Mr. Wolfowitz's plans, including combating corruption and demanding concrete results in aid programs.
 The bank lends about $23 billion a year to poor countries and is the principal vehicle for grants and loans to the poorest among them. But the bank is also facing challenges in raising $30 billion over the next three years to renew its lending for the poorest countries. Many rich countries had balked at new lending while Mr. Wolfowitz remained in charge.
 Bank officials say Mr. Zoellick's first job will be to raise money for the poorest countries and reshape its lending for ''middle income'' poor countries like India and China, which now have access to capital.
 There are also lingering issues, including whether to retain several top officials Mr. Wolfowitz elevated.
 Mr. Zoellick served six years in the current Bush administration, as United States trade representative from 2001 to 2005 and then as deputy secretary of state until last July. Under President Reagan and the first President Bush, he held top posts at the Treasury and State Departments. He is known as tough, strong-willed, demanding and occasionally abrasive, but has built a network of admirers and allies around the world during his years in the government.
 Mr. Zoellick is continuing the tradition of Goldman Sachs executives' returning to public service under the Bush administration. Before becoming Treasury secretary last year, Mr. Paulson was the chief executive of Goldman Sachs; another former Goldman official, Joshua B. Bolten, is White House chief of staff.
 ''It's a very tight network, this Goldman one,'' a European official said. ''If you're going to limit your search to an inner circle of people trusted by the Bush administration who are also acceptable to the Europeans, Zoellick is going to score very well.''
 In the last year, as vice chairman for international affairs at Goldman Sachs, Mr. Zoellick worked on developing capital markets in Asia, especially China.
 As deputy secretary of state, he concentrated on improving relations with China and on trying, though without much success, to negotiate a pact with Sudan to end the rebellion and killings in Darfur.
 He won the attention of international economic officials for his work in starting the current global trade talks shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks. The goal was to lift trade barriers in rich countries to help poor countries reliant on exports.
 Trade officials say Mr. Zoellick's offer to lower American tariffs and subsidies on farm products impressed exporting countries and put them in his corner. He worked closely with Pascal Lamy, head of the World Trade Organization, to get the talks started. ''I have known Bob Zoellick for over two decades,'' Mr. Lamy said. ''I have always appreciated his skills as a consensus builder and his capacity to reach out to developing countries.''
 The German finance minister, Peer Steinbruck, also endorsed Mr. Zoellick's candidacy, administration and German officials said. Mr. Zoellick was a top aide to Secretary of State James A. Baker III in helping negotiate terms of reunification after the fall of the Berlin Wall. 
 Administration officials acknowledged that Mr. Zoellick could be a difficult boss but said he backed subordinates and won loyalty. A 2003 review of the cabinet in the National Journal rated him as ''one of the most successful members'' but one who could ''wear his people down.''
 One issue Mr. Zoellick will have to address is the future status of Shaha Ali Riza, Mr. Wolfowitz's companion, whose transfer, pay raise and promotion sparked the rebellion in the bank that led to his downfall. 
 The fact that Mr. Zoellick was the leading candidate was first reported in the Financial Times on Tuesday. 
 The selection of Mr. Zoellick caught the bank board by surprise. The board, which under bank bylaws elects the president, met in the day and in the evening issued criteria for the new president; it said nominations would be accepted before June 15, with a choice made by June 30.
 Administration officials expressed confidence that the board members would be guided by finance and development ministries from their home countries and would quickly ratify Mr. Bush's choice. Nevertheless, bank officials expected some lingering unease over the way the United States treated the board a kind of an afterthought.
 Some at the bank said that some board members representing India, China or other developing countries might not vote for Mr. Zoellick or would even put forward candidates. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert B. Zoellick 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); CORRUPTION (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); HENRY PAULSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

 
