

601 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: The Nation -- Focus on Fear; 
The President Makes Danger His Campaign Theme

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THERE was something familiar in the language that President Bush used in his State of the Union speech Tuesday when he asked Americans to stay with him through the journey that began on the morning of Sept. 11, 2001. "We've not come all this way through tragedy and trial and war only to falter and leave our work unfinished," Mr. Bush said, in words that bore the strong imprint of his chief speechwriter, Michael Gerson, an evangelical Christian.
 Some listeners detected an allusion to a passage in "Amazing Grace," the hymn written by a slave trader turned minister and abolitionist, John Newton, after he survived an Atlantic storm: 
 Through many dangers, toils and snares, 
I have already come;
'Tis grace has brought me safe thus far,
and grace will lead me home.
Newton was referring in the last two lines to his salvation by God, a sentiment often echoed by the president. But in this speech, which served as the opening shot of Mr. Bush's 2004 campaign, the real message was there if listeners substituted the name "Bush" for "grace." 
In short, Mr. Bush was holding himself out as the candidate who can best protect the nation from the evils of a post-9/11 world. Many Democrats call it the politics of fear; Republicans call it reality. Whatever the terminology, Mr. Bush has never before so bluntly told voters that the choice was between him and "the dangerous illusion" (read Democrats) that the threat had passed. Members of both parties say that running on national security may well guarantee Mr. Bush a second term. The White House is betting the election on it.
This is hardly news to the Democrats, who have never said the fear is not real. The candidacy of Gen. Wesley K. Clark, the commander of the Kosovo bombing campaign, was driven in large part by Democrats nervous about the national security credentials of the antiwar Howard Dean; John Kerry began to surge after a soldier whose life he saved in Vietnam turned up in Iowa. The Democrats tried to make the economy the issue in the 2002 midterm elections, but Mr. Bush led the Republicans to gains by vowing to hunt the killers down "one by one" and charging the Democrats with holding up the creation of the Department of Homeland Security.
The State of the Union speech took the strategy to new heights. "This was a remarkably candid acknowledgment of how much he intends to exploit the political value of his posture as the only effective warrior in the war against terror," said David M. Kennedy, a professor of history at Stanford. "It's a very strong card, and may well prove to be a trump card."
Historically, Americans have not voted out the commander in chief in the middle of war, which helps explain, Democrats say, why Mr. Bush used the grand stage of the State of the Union speech to underline the threat. ("And it is tempting to believe that the danger is behind us. That hope is understandable, comforting and false.") It is also why the president traced the two-year narrative of a war on terror and then rebutted those who questioned, as he put it, "if America is really in a war."
Historians say that Franklin D. Roosevelt would probably not have won a third term in 1940 had there not been the crisis in Europe and Hitler's invasion of France that June. "There were forces on the right who didn't like anything about the New Deal, he had not brought about economic recovery and a lot of people thought he had too much power," Mr. Kennedy said. "There's very little question he owes his third term, and his fourth as well, to the international crisis."
Similarly, in the Civil War election of 1864, Abraham Lincoln survived a challenge by George B. McClellan, the Democratic nominee and the general Lincoln had fired the year before. But it might have been otherwise had not General Sherman captured Atlanta two months before the election, turning Lincoln's fortunes around after a summer of devastating casualties. "Lincoln was elected on a tide of military success," said James M. McPherson, the Civil War historian. "But Lincoln and everybody else acknowledged that if the election had been held in August, it would have gone the other way."
Of course, unpopular wars have driven some presidents from office, like Lyndon B. Johnson, who chose not to run for re-election in 1968 because of his vulnerabilities over Vietnam. Harry S. Truman was so unpopular in 1952 because of the stalemate in Korea that he might not have won his party's nomination. 
It is no surprise that the biggest fear of the current White House, short of another terrorist attack, is that Iraq will implode before the election. Barring that, political analysts say Mr. Bush is wise to wield his most powerful advantage against the opposition. In a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted just before the State of the Union, 68 percent, including majorities of both Democrats and independents, gave Mr. Bush high marks for the campaign against terrorism. 
So it is in Mr. Bush's interest to talk about the threat, just as it is in his interest to warn, as he did on Tuesday, that terrorists are still plotting against America. "Just think about the political calculation," said Walter Russell Mead of the Council on Foreign Relations. "You don't want to say, 'thanks to me, you're safe now,' and then tomorrow there's no Cleveland, Ohio."
People close to Mr. Bush reject the notion of a "political calculation," as Mr. Mead put it, and say the president is in fact haunted by the specter of Sept. 11 and the fears of a replay on his watch. Mr. Bush still begins each day with the daily "threat assessment," a compilation of what intelligence and law enforcement agencies pick up about potential terrorist activity. Aides say that it is a disturbing look at the nation's vulnerabilities, and that it has had a powerful effect on the president's psyche. 
But no one at the White House denies that pushing the president's antiterrorism policy is good politics. Notably, none of the Democrats have accused Mr. Bush of exaggerating the vulnerability of the United States. "In all the opposition, one thing you're not hearing is, 'The boy is crying wolf,"' Mr. Mead said.
The problem for the challengers, Democrats themselves say, is no presidential candidate has effectively challenged Mr. Bush on security. 
"You have to say how you're going to protect America, not just what Bush does wrong," said Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who has criticized the administration for not spending more on domestic security. "I don't think most Americans are totally satisfied with the Bush fight against terrorism, but they certainly prefer it to a weaker or nonexistent one."
Polls show that Mr. Bush is vulnerable to Democrats on domestic issues; 51 percent of Americans disapprove of his handling of the economy, according to the New York Times/CBS News poll. The economy was the No. 1 issue that people wanted to hear the candidates discuss.
But David Winston, a Republican pollster, said that running on national security made sense. During the State of the Union, he conducted a focus group of 30 independent voters, who were instructed to rate parts of the speech. The line that won the best response -- aside from Mr. Bush's praise of the troops -- was the president's vow that the United States will never seek "a permission slip" to defend its security.
"It was the home-run line," Mr. Winston said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (87%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TERRORISM (77%); HISTORY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); RELIGION (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (79%); VIET NAM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



602 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-13

Cheney Calls for Solidarity At Forum in Switzerland
Vice President Dick Cheney, speaking at the World Economic Forum, called for allies to bridge their differences over Iraq and redouble their efforts to fight terrorism. He also asked allies to halt the spread of illicit weapons and promote democratic trends in the Middle East. 10

About 1,200 antiglobalization demonstrators marched in Chur, Switzerland, some smashing shop windows and hurling paint bombs, to protest the World Economic Forum. 4

Bomb Attacks in Iraq Kill 9
Five American soldiers and four Iraqis were killed in separate bomb attacks in Iraq. Two of the Americans were killed by a roadside bomb that struck their convoy near Falluja, and three more died in a truck bomb attack in Khaldiya. 12

Israel Will Free Arab Prisoners
Israel will free more than 400 Arab prisoners in a swap with Lebanon's Hezbollah group. The exchange will return a kidnapped Israeli businessman and the remains of three Israeli soldiers. 9

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Bird Flu Resistant to Drugs
The avian influenza virus spreading in Asia seems resistant to one of the main types of viral drugs as new cases continue to be detected. The probability of a big outbreak is low. 8

NATIONAL 16-27

Focus of Campaign Turns To Independent Voters
Independent voters have become the focus of the Democratic presidential candidates in the final weekend before the New Hampshire primary. These voters could make up as many as 40 percent to 50 percent of the vote in the Democratic primary. 1

John Kerry's Democratic rivals are looking through his 19-year record of Senate votes for ammunition. 1

Senator Kerry and Gen. Wesley K. Clark sparred over their military service. 18

Howard Dean said Iowa should regulate discussion inside caucus rooms or lose its premier status in the presidential nomination process. 22

New Hampshire is more nuanced than it was in the past. Many residents are well-educated newcomers from other states. 18

Second Mars Rover Lands
The Mars rover Opportunity bounded to a halt on the Martian surface, NASA's second Mars landing in three weeks. It sent radio signals to earth as it bounced along the surface. 16

Slow Start for Jobless Program
A program offering tax credits to jobless workers for health insurance has started slowly. Only 5 percent of those eligible have taken part. 16

Encouraging Marriage
States have experimented for years with ways to bring down the divorce rate, much as President Bush proposes to do nationwide. 1

NEW YORK/REGION 29-37

Teenager Killed by Police; Official Criticizes Shooting
A 19-year-old high school student who intended to take a rooftop shortcut to a birthday party was shot and killed by a police officer at the top of a dark stairwell leading to the roof of a Brooklyn housing project. The police commissioner said the shooting appeared to be unjustified. 1

Layoffs Loom in Rochester
Eastman Kodak said it planned to eliminate 4,500 jobs in Rochester. The mood there was one of disappointment, but not surprise. 37

Neediest Cases 32

OBITUARIES 38-39

Chess 37
Weather 24

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INFLUENZA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); SPACE EXPLORATION (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HEZBOLLAH (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); DRUG RESISTANCE (73%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (72%); VIRUSES (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); POLICE FORCES (62%); LAYOFFS (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); HEZBOLLAH (56%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (90%); JOHN KERRY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (90%); MARS (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



603 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2518 words

HEADLINE: The Coalition of the Unbelieving 

BYLINE:  By Serge Schmemann; Serge Schmemann is the editorial page editor of The International Herald Tribune.

 BODY:
 AMERICA UNBOUND
The Bush Revolution in Foreign Policy.
By Ivo H. Daalder
and James M. Lindsay.
246 pp. Washington:
Brookings Institution Press. $22.95.

THE SORROWS
OF EMPIRE
Militarism, Secrecy, and the End
of the Republic.
By Chalmers Johnson.
389 pp. New York:
Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt
& Company. $25.

THE BUBBLE OF
AMERICAN SUPREMACY
Correcting the Misuse
of American Power.
By George Soros.
207 pp. New York:
PublicAffairs. $22.

BUSH IN BABYLON
The Recolonisation of Iraq.
By Tariq Ali.
Illustrated. 214 pp. New York:
Verso. $20.

SUPERPOWER
SYNDROME
America's Apocalyptic Confrontation With the World.
By Robert Jay Lifton.
211 pp. New York:
Thunder's Mouth Press/Nation Books. Paper, $12.95.

CRISIS ON THE
KOREAN PENINSULA
How to Deal With
a Nuclear North Korea.
By Michael O'Hanlon
and Mike Mochizuki.
230 pp. New York:
A Brookings Institution Book/
McGraw-Hill. $19.95.

AFTER THE EMPIRE
The Breakdown of the American Order.
By Emmanuel Todd.
Translated by C. Jon Delogu.
Foreword by Michael Lind.
233 pp. New York:
Columbia University Press. $29.95.
 IT is difficult to believe that George W. Bush has been in the White House for only three years. It seems ages now that we have been living in a new world, in which his administration is closely identified with new passions, new fears, new enemies. Sept. 11, of course, is the dominant reason; it has effectively divided our life into a "before" and an "after," pushing the 20th century with its hot and cold wars, its thickets of nuclear missiles and its arguments into a foggy past. George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton managed the immediate consequences of the collapse of Communism, but they did so when the presumption was still that the main threat to the world had been lifted, when there seemed no pressing need to define a new, post-Communist order.
For better or for worse, it was left to George W. Bush to propose that new order, and it hasn't worked out the way many had expected -- a world in which arsenals would be sharply reduced and democracies would cooperate in resolving conflicts, ensuring human rights and protecting the environment. Instead, Bush and his team disdainfully chucked out containment and deterrence and declared that America had the right to ensure its security any way it deemed proper, including pre-emptive war. The triumphant America of the 21st century would use multilateral institutions only when it suited American aims. Not only that; guaranteeing its safety required that America impose its democratic values, starting in the Middle East. 
Someday Bush may be proven right, and a harmonious chain of friendly democracies may stretch from Central Asia to the Mediterranean. For the time being, the new American order has generated a tsunami of anti-Americanism, with the United States perceived in some quarters as a greater threat to world peace than Al Qaeda. Deep fissures have developed between the United States and its allies; American policies have threatened to undermine Europe's drive toward unity; Muslims around the globe have turned against the United States; many leaders in Asia now look to China for their economic and political security; and Americans themselves have become polarized in their attitude toward the rest of the world. The "war on terrorism" has gotten mired in an anarchic Iraq; Guantanamo has come to represent a willful violation of civil rights; and tyrants have seized on the concept of pre-emptive war to justify their own suppression of opponents, now labeled terrorists.
Not unexpectedly, the rise of so contentious a new order, and the man who so unexpectedly launched it, have hatched a considerable library of condemnation, all the more as his re-election campaign gets under way. Of the books reviewed here, two -- America Unbound" and "Crisis on the Korean Peninsula" -- can be classified as reasonably evenhanded, though the first is broadly critical of the Bush approach and the second implicitly so. The others leave no doubt of what they think, ranging from George Soros's declared hope that his book will contribute to sweeping Bush out of office to Robert Jay Lifton's image of a "malignant synergy" between the United States and Al Qaeda "when, in their mutual zealotry, Islamist and American leaders seem to act in concert." From across the Atlantic, Emmanuel Todd contributes the wistful notion that the United States, the true empire and axis of evil in his view, is already near collapse. These are only a portion of a swelling anti-Bush literature, for now only partly offset by equally ardent pro-Bush books.
However we may feel about the new order, Ivo H. Daalder and James M. Lindsay -- two veterans of the Clinton National Security Council now at the Brookings Institution and the Council+on Foreign Relations respectively -- pronounce what Bush has done as nothing less than a "revolution." "America Unbound" is the most ambitious and important study in this batch, not least because the authors painstakingly develop the provocative thesis that the president is not the Dubya of cartoonists, a dim puppet of a cabal of old-guard hawks and neocons, but the master puppeteer himself. "George W. Bush led his own revolution," they declare.
That is quite an accolade for a prodigal patrician who metamorphosed into a born-again Christian and Texan and slipped into the White House as the standard-bearer of Reaganites and neo-cons. Though in the beginning he exhibited a disdain for international institutions and treaties and took some tentative swipes at Russia, China and the axis of evil, there was little to suggest that the early Bush harbored an ambition to reshape the world, or for that matter had much real interest in foreign affairs.
It was 9/11,+Daalder+and+Lindsay+write, that provided the catalyst for Bush to blend what could be called the assertive nationalism of Dick Cheney and Condoleezza Rice; the neoconservative vision of Paul Wolfowitz and Richard Perle; and his own view, formed long before 9/11, that success requires a clear resolve and the will to use power, into a vision and a mission. That the mission could be perceived as a pernicious new form of imperialism was totally alien to Bush. America, he declared in Crawford in August 2002, was "the greatest force for good in history." Conversely, those who assailed it were now openly proclaimed as "evil."
Bush's views, Daalder and Lindsay say, came to rest on two fundamental pillars. "The first was that in a dangerous world the best -- if not the only -- way to ensure America's security was to shed the constraints imposed by friends, allies and international institutions." The second was that America "should aggressively go abroad searching for monsters to destroy." Never mind whether Saddam Hussein -- or Yasir Arafat, Iran, Syria or North Korea -- had anything to do with the fall of the twin towers: they were the global evil America was ordained to destroy.
It is inevitable that a foreign policy couched in biblical symbols, eschewing subtleties and advanced by Texans, oil-men, neocons and industrialists would be insufferable to liberals, doves, internationalists and New Englanders (conversely, remember what Bill Clinton did to conservatives). One suspects that even the senior George Bush occasionally looks out from his crag at Kennebunkport on the policies of his firstborn with some misgiving. Still, it is difficult to explain the level of loathing that the junior Bush and his government have achieved among otherwise rational liberals.+The assaults in these books range widely in theme and quality, and Bush's defenders are likely, with some justification, to dismiss the more strident writers as congenitally allergic to any manifestation of American power. But the urgency with which they sound the alarm requires attention. History is too clear on what unconstrained power can lead to. 
Among the books here, "America Unbound" deserves the closest attention, as I have noted above. The research is admirable, the arguments are well marshaled, and the absence of stridency adds considerable authority to the portrayal of Bush as a president whose "worldview simply made no allowance for others' doubting the purity of American motives." Of the others, in the order of my preference, "The Sorrows of Empire," by Chalmers Johnson, an Asia scholar and onetime consultant for the Central Intelligence Agency who has become a fervent critic of Washington's military policies, is an exhaustive -- sometimes exhausting -- study of the spread of American military and economic control over the world. Johnson produces voluminous research on the many United States military and intelligence outposts unknown to most Americans, and weaves a frightening picture of a military-industrial complex grown into exactly the powerful, secretive force that Dwight D. Eisenhower warned against -- made more dangerous by an aggressive executive branch, creating a state of perpetual war and economic bankruptcy. His assessment is chilling: "It is not at all obvious which is a greater threat to the safety and integrity of the citizens of the United States: the possibility of a terrorist attack using weapons of mass destruction or an out-of-control military intent on displacing elected officials who stand in their way."
"The Bubble of American Supremacy," by George Soros, the billionaire investor with a foreign aid program of his own, is a different exercise, more an extended essay than an academic study. He proclaims at the outset that his purpose is to do whatever he can to prevent Bush's re-election. In a deliberate, didactic style, he indicts the administration for hijacking 9/11 for its own "radical foreign policy agenda," and then concealing its true goals behind a facade of freedom and democracy. "When President Bush says, as he does frequently, that 'freedom' will prevail, in fact he means that America will prevail," Soros writes, adding: "I am rather sensitive to Orwellian doublespeak because I grew up with it in Hungary, first under Nazi and later Communist rule."
Tariq Ali, a Pakistani-born novelist and writer who is an editor of New Left Review in London, combines an often compelling insider's perspective with a somewhat dated diatribe on the "triune evil" of "U.S. imperialism, Zionism and Arab reaction." He depicts the American occupation of Iraq as the latest misguided exercise of a colonizing formula that "has already wrecked much of Latin America and the whole of Africa": "capitalist democracy = privatization + 'civil society.' " "Bush+in+Babylon" is a curious little volume, drawing extensively on poetry and personal recollections, with some valuable insights into the sensitivities that explain why the occupying coalition in Iraq is not being treated as a savior. Surmising, for example, why American generals did nothing to protect the cultural treasures of Baghdad, Ali writes: "Having stirred their soldiers to fight and destroy the 'ragheads,' portrayed in briefings as uncivilized barbarians responsible for 9/11, perhaps they were now fearful of admitting that the 'ragheads' were a people with a culture."
Robert Jay Lifton, an American psychiatrist and writer, perceives an ideologically driven administration locked in an apocalyptic death-dance with Islamic radicals. A student of apocalyptic behavior whose previous books deal with Hiroshima, Nazi doctors and the Aum Shinrikyo cult in Japan, Lifton alternates between informed passages on extreme behavior and an often unconvincing application of these theories to the Bush administration. At times, "Superpower Syndrome" descends into psychohistory-speak, as in this riff on "nuclearism," the embrace of the bomb "as a source not only of transcendent power but of life-sustaining security and peace, and in some cases as close to a deity." 
As for the bomb, "Crisis on the Korean Peninsula" is essentially an+academic+policy+study on a troubling (some say terrifying) question that the Bush White House has been taking a hard line+on -- North Korea and its nuclear weapons -- stretched to the 200-odd pages required for a book. The approach proposed by Michael O'Hanlon and Mike Mochizuki, of the Brookings Institution and George Washington University respectively, is a package in which North Korea would surrender its nuclear weapons program in exchange for large amounts of economic aid. Though it is developed in considerable detail and sometimes intriguing, it remains far from clear why North Korea would buy into the deal.
I have saved a discussion of Emmanuel Todd's "After the Empire" for last, not because I deem it least but because it is the view of an outsider, and a highly troubling view at that. I have been living in France for the past six months, and I often wonder whether Americans are aware of the depth of the dread and revulsion in which Bush's United States is held by many foreigners. In Todd's study, translated by C. Jon Delogu, a relentless condemnation of everything American arises from an acute sense of betrayal. 
A French historian and anthropologist trained at Cambridge University in England+and descended from Jews who were refugees in America, Todd says he used to see the United States as a model, as his "subconscious safety net." Now, he declares, it is solely a "predator," living way beyond its means, racking up video-game victories over defenseless nations and undermining human rights. Nobody escapes Todd's jilted fury -- not the American woman, "a castrating, threatening figure," and not American Jews, who have "fallen into the disturbing, not to say neurotic, cult of the Holocaust." Todd's solace is also his main thesis, that American power is fast waning because of the country's profligate spending: "Let the present America expend what remains of its energy, if that is what it wants to do, on 'war on terrorism' -- a substitute battle for the perpetuation of a hegemony that it has already lost." This is easy to dismiss as the rant of Old Europe (surprise: Todd's book was a best seller in France). But that would miss the point: his sense of betrayal is widely shared around the world, even in places the White House likes to portray as friends. Alas, I have heard too many people of good will express profound disappointment with the United States to reject Todd as an extreme or isolated voice. 
Though I have lived abroad for many years and regard myself as hardened to anti-Americanism, I confess I was taken aback to have my country depicted, page after page, book after book, as a dangerous empire in its last throes, as a failure of democracy, as militaristic, violent, hegemonic, evil, callous, arrogant, imperial and cruel. Daalder and Lindsay may be constrained by an American sense of respect for the White House, but they too proclaim Bush's foreign policy fundamentally wrong. It is not only Bush's "imperious style," they write; "The deeper problem was that the fundamental premise of the Bush revolution -- that America's security rested on an America unbound -- was mistaken." The more moving judgment comes from Soros, a Jew from Hungary wholived through both German and Soviet occupation: "This is not the America I chose as my home." 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Dusan Petricic) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); GEORGE SOROS (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



604 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 4372 words

HEADLINE: The Tyranny of Copyright? 

BYLINE:  By Robert S. Boynton; Robert S. Boynton, director of the graduate magazine journalism program at New York University, is writing a book about American literary journalism.

 BODY:
Last fall, a group of civic-minded students at Swarthmore College received a sobering lesson in the future of political protest. They had come into possession of some 15,000 e-mail messages and memos -- presumably leaked or stolen -- from Diebold Election Systems, the largest maker of electronic voting machines in the country. The memos featured Diebold employees' candid discussion of flaws in the company's software and warnings that the computer network was poorly protected from hackers. In light of the chaotic 2000 presidential election, the Swarthmore students decided that this information shouldn't be kept from the public. Like aspiring Daniel Ellsbergs with their would-be Pentagon Papers, they posted the files on the Internet, declaring the act a form of electronic whistle-blowing. 
 Unfortunately for the students, their actions ran afoul of the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act (D.M.C.A.), one of several recent laws that regulate intellectual property and are quietly reshaping the culture. Designed to protect copyrighted material on the Web, the act makes it possible for an Internet service provider to be liable for the material posted by its users -- an extraordinary burden that providers of phone service, by contrast, do not share. Under the law, if an aggrieved party (Diebold, say) threatens to sue an Internet service provider over the content of a subscriber's Web site, the provider can avoid liability simply by removing the offending material. Since the mere threat of a lawsuit is usually enough to scare most providers into submission, the law effectively gives private parties veto power over much of the information published online -- as the Swarthmore students would soon learn. 
 Not long after the students posted the memos, Diebold sent letters to Swarthmore charging the students with copyright infringement and demanding that the material be removed from the students' Web page, which was hosted on the college's server. Swarthmore complied. The question of whether the students were within their rights to post the memos was essentially moot: thanks to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, their speech could be silenced without the benefit of actual lawsuits, public hearings, judges or other niceties of due process.
After persistent challenges by the students -- and a considerable amount of negative publicity for Diebold -- in November the company agreed not to sue. To the delight of the students' supporters, the memos are now back on their Web site. But to proponents of free speech on the Internet, the story remains a chilling one.
Siva Vaidhyanathan, a media scholar at New York University, calls anecdotes like this "copyright horror stories," and there have been a growing number of them over the past few years. Once a dry and seemingly mechanical area of the American legal system, intellectual property law can now be found at the center of major disputes in the arts, sciences and -- as in the Diebold case -- politics. Recent cases have involved everything from attempts to force the Girl Scouts to pay royalties for singing songs around campfires to the infringement suit brought by the estate of Margaret Mitchell against the publishers of Alice Randall's book "The Wind Done Gone" (which tells the story of Mitchell's "Gone With the Wind" from a slave's perspective) to corporations like Celera Genomics filing for patents for human genes. The most publicized development came in September, when the Recording Industry Association of America began suing music downloaders for copyright infringement, reaching out-of-court settlements for thousands of dollars with defendants as young as 12. And in November, a group of independent film producers went to court to fight a ban, imposed this year by the Motion Picture Association of America, on sending DVD's to those who vote for annual film awards.
Not long ago, the Internet's ability to provide instant, inexpensive and perfect copies of text, sound and images was heralded with the phrase "information wants to be free." Yet the implications of this freedom have frightened some creators -- particularly those in the recording, publishing and movie industries -- who argue that the greater ease of copying and distribution increases the need for more stringent intellectual property laws. The movie and music industries have succeeded in lobbying lawmakers to allow them to tighten their grips on their creations by lengthening copyright terms. The law has also extended the scope of copyright protection, creating what critics have called a "paracopyright," which prohibits not only duplicating protected material but in some cases even gaining access to it in the first place. In addition to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the most significant piece of new legislation is the 1998 Copyright Term Extension Act, which added 20 years of protection to past and present copyrighted works and was upheld by the Supreme Court a year ago. In less than a decade, the much-ballyhooed liberating potential of the Internet seems to have given way to something of an intellectual land grab, presided over by legislators and lawyers for the media industries.
In response to these developments, a protest movement is forming, made up of lawyers, scholars and activists who fear that bolstering copyright protection in the name of foiling "piracy" will have disastrous consequences for society -- hindering the ability to experiment and create and eroding our democratic freedoms. This group of reformers, which Lawrence Lessig, a professor at Stanford Law School, calls the "free culture movement," might also be thought of as the "Copy Left" (to borrow a term originally used by software programmers to signal that their product bore fewer than the usual amount of copyright restrictions). Lawyers and professors at the nation's top universities and law schools, the members of the Copy Left aren't wild-eyed radicals opposed to the use of copyright, though they do object fiercely to the way copyright has been distorted by recent legislation and manipulated by companies like Diebold. Nor do they share a coherent political ideology. What they do share is a fear that the United States is becoming less free and ultimately less creative. While the American copyright system was designed to encourage innovation, it is now, they contend, being used to squelch it. They see themselves as fighting for a traditional understanding of intellectual property in the face of a radical effort to turn copyright law into a tool for hoarding ideas. "The notion that intellectual property rights should never expire, and works never enter the public domain -- this is the truly fanatical and unconstitutional position," says Jonathan Zittrain, a co-founder of the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard Law School, the intellectual hub of the Copy Left.
Thinkers like Lessig and Zittrain promote a vision of a world in which copyright law gives individual creators the exclusive right to profit from their intellectual property for a brief, limited period -- thus providing an incentive to create while still allowing successive generations of creators to draw freely on earlier ideas. They stress that borrowing and collaboration are essential components of all creation and caution against being seduced by the romantic myth of "the author": the lone garret-dwelling poet, creating masterpieces out of thin air. "No one writes from nothing," says Yochai Benkler, a professor at Yale Law School. "We all take the world as it is and use it, remix it." 
Where does the Copy Left believe a creation ought to go once its copyright has lapsed? Into the public domain, or the "cultural commons" -- a shared stockpile of ideas where the majority of America's music and literature would reside, from which anyone could partake without having to pay or ask permission. James Boyle, a professor at Duke Law School, notes that the public domain is a necessity for social and cultural progress, not some sort of socialist luxury. "Our art, our culture, our science depend on this public domain," he has written, "every bit as much as they depend on intellectual property." 
In opposition to the cultural commons stands the "permission culture," an epithet the Copy Left uses to describe the world it fears our current copyright law is creating. Whereas you used to own the CD or book you purchased, in the permission culture it is more likely that you'll lease (or "license") a song, video or e-book, and even then only under restrictive conditions: read your e-book, but don't copy and paste any selections; listen to music on your MP3 player, but don't burn it onto a CD or transfer it to your stereo. The Copy Left sees innovations like iTunes, Apple's popular online music store, as the first step toward a society in which much of the cultural activity that we currently take for granted -- reading an encyclopedia in the public library, selling a geometry textbook to a friend, copying a song for a sibling -- will be rerouted through a system of micropayments in return for which the rights to ever smaller pieces of our culture are doled out. "Sooner or later," predicts Miriam Nisbet, the legislative counsel for the American Library Association, "you'll get to the point where you say, 'Well, I guess that 25 cents isn't too much to pay for this sentence,' and then there's no hope and no going back."
There is a growing sense of urgency among the members of the Copy Left. They worry that if they do not raise awareness of what is happening to copyright law, Americans will be stuck forever with the consequences of decisions now being made -- and laws being passed -- in the name of preventing piracy. "We are at a moment in our history at which the terms of freedom and justice are up for grabs," Benkler says. He notes that each major innovation in the history of communications -- the printing press, radio, telephone -- was followed by a brief period of openness before the rules of its usage were determined and alternatives eliminated. "The Internet," he says, "is in that space right now."
America has always had an ambivalent attitude toward the notion of intellectual property. Thomas Jefferson, for one, considered copyright a necessary evil: he favored providing just enough incentive to create, nothing more, and thereafter allowing ideas to flow freely as nature intended. "If nature has made any one thing less susceptible than all others of exclusive property," he wrote, "it is the action of the thinking power called an idea, which an individual may exclusively possess as long as he keeps it to himself; but the moment it is divulged, it forces itself into the possession of everyone." His conception of copyright was enshrined in Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution, which gives Congress the authority to "promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries."
But Jefferson's vision has not fared well. As the country's economy developed from agrarian to industrial to "information," ideas took on greater importance, and the demand increased for stronger copyright laws. In 1790, copyright protection lasted for 14 years and could be renewed just once before the work entered the public domain. Between 1831 and 1909, the maximum term was increased from 28 to 56 years. Today, copyright protection for individuals lasts for 70 years after the death of the author; for corporations, it's 95 years after publication. Over the past three decades, the flow of material entering the public domain has slowed to a trickle: in 1973, according to Lessig, more than 85 percent of copyright owners chose not to renew their copyrights, allowing their ideas to become common coin; since the 1998 Copyright Term Extension Act lengthened present and past copyrights for an additional 20 years, little material will enter the public domain any time soon.
Some of the changes that expanded copyright protection were made with an understanding of their effects; what also troubles the Copy Left, however, are the unintended consequences of seemingly innocuous tweaks in copyright legislation. In particular, two laws that were passed years before the creation of the Internet helped set the stage for today's copyright bonanza. Before the 1909 Copyright Act, copyright was construed as the exclusive right to "publish" a creation; but the 1909 law changed the wording to prohibit others from "copying" one's creation -- a seemingly minor change that thereafter linked copyright protection to the copying technology of the day, whether that was the pen, the photocopy machine, the VCR or the Internet. In 1976, a revision to the law dispensed with the requirement of formally registering or renewing a copyright in order to comply with international copyright standards. Henceforth, everything -- from e-mail messages to doodles on a napkin -- was automatically copyrighted the moment it was "fixed in a tangible medium."
The true significance of these two laws didn't become apparent until the arrival of the Internet, when every work became automatically protected by copyright and every use of a work via the Internet constituted a new copy. "Nobody realized that eliminating those requirements would create a nightmare of uncertainty and confusion about what content is available to use," Lessig explains, "which is a crucial question now that the Internet is the way we gain access to so much content. It was a kind of oil spill in the free culture." 
Lessig is one of the most prominent and eloquent defenders of the Copy Left's belief that copyright law should return to its Jeffersonian roots. "We are invoking ideas that should be central to the American tradition, such as that a free society is richer than a control society," he says. "But in the cultural sphere, big media wants to build a new Soviet empire where you need permission from the central party to do anything." Hecomplains that Americans have been reduced to "an Oliver Twist-like position," in which they have to ask, "Please, sir, may I?" every time we want to use something under copyright -- and then only if we are fortunate enough to have the assistance of a high-priced lawyer.
In October 2002, Lessig argued before the Supreme Court in Eldred v. Ashcroft, which concerned a challenge to the Copyright Term Extension Act. On behalf of the plaintiffs, Lessig argued that perpetually extending the term of copyright was a violation of the Constitution's requirement that copyright exist for "a limited time." The court responded that although perhaps unwise on policy grounds, granting such extensions was within Congress's power. It was a major setback for the Copy Left. Given the Eldred decision, there is nothing to stop a future Congress from extending copyright's term again and again.
Lessig's efforts haven't been limited to the courtroom. In 2001, he was part of a group that founded an organization called Creative Commons, which offers individual creators the ability to carefully calibrate the level of control they wish to maintain over their works. The organization services the needs of, say, musicians who want rappers and D.J.'s to be able to download and remix their music without legal trouble or of writers who want their works republished without charge, but only by nonprofit publications. The Commons has developed a software application for the Web that allows copyright holders who do not want to exercise all of the restrictions of copyright law to dedicate their work to the public domain or license it on terms that allow copying and creative reuses. The aim of Creative Commons is not only to increase the sum of raw source material online but also to make it cheaper and easier for other creators to locate and access that material. This will enable people to use the Internet to find, for example, photographs that are free to be altered or reused or texts that may be copied, distributed or sampled -- all by their authors' permission. The Creative Commons now has a presence in 10 countries, including Brazil, whose minister of culture, the musician Gilberto Gil, plans to release some of his songs under the Creative Commons license so that others may freely borrow from them. Creative Commons is currently talking to Amazon and others about a plan to release out-of-print books under Creative Commons licenses.
One of the central ideas of the Copy Left is that the Internet has been a catalyst for re-engaging with the culture -- for interacting with the things we read and watch and listen to, as opposed to just sitting back and absorbing them. This vision of how culture works stands in contrast to what the Copy Left calls the "broadcast model" -- the arrangement in which a small group of content producers disseminate their creations (television, movies, music) through controlled routes (cable, theaters, radio-TV stations) to passive consumers. Yochai Benkler, the law professor at Yale, argues that people want to be more engaged in their culture, despite the broadcast technology, like television, that he says has narcotized us. "People are users," he says. "They are producers, storytellers, consumers, interactors -- complex, varied beings, not just people who go to the store, buy a packaged good off the shelf and consume."
A few weeks ago, I met Benkler in his loft in downtown New York. He stroked his beard while explicating his ideas with the care of a man parsing a particularly knotty question of Scripture. Benkler was born in Tel Aviv in 1964, and while in his 20's, he helped found a remote desert kibbutz in an attempt to recapture the Zionist movement's original socialist spirit. The challenges of creating a community in isolation from the rest of society ultimately proved overwhelming. "After a few years," he said, "we realized that at the rate we were going we wouldn't attend college until we were in our 50's." It was a hard lesson in the difficulty of producing anything -- a community, a work of art -- in isolation.
But Benkler's belief in the importance of creating things in common rests on more than anecdotal evidence. What makes his argument more than wishful thinking, he said, is that he has some economic evidence for his view. "Let's compare a few numbers," he said. "How much do people pay the recording industry to listen to music versus how much people pay the telephone industry to talk to their friends and family? The recording industry is a $12 billion a year business, compared with the telephone business, which is a more than $250 billion a year business. That is what economists call a 'revealed willingness to pay,' a clear preference for a technology that allows you to participate in work, socializing and interaction in general, over a technology that allows you to be a passive consumer of a packaged good. Is that a study of human nature? No. Is it an economic measure that would suggest there is a lot of demand out there for speaking and listening to others? Yes."
According to Benkler, the cultural commons not only offers a better model for creativity; it makes good economic sense. Like Lessig and other members of the Copy Left, he takes his bearings from the free software movement and views the success of products like Linux and services like Google as evidence of a viable collaborative (or "peer to peer") model for producing and sharing ideas -- a model that will augment and, in some cases, replace the current model. (He concedes that some products, like novels and blockbuster movies, will never be produced peer to peer, though they will draw on the work of artists before them.)
Benkler predicts that the recording industry will be one of the first businesses to go. "All it does is package and sell goods," he said, "which is technically an unfeasible way of continuing. They are trying their best to legislate the environment to change, but that doesn't mean we have to let them."
The battle between the Copy Left and its opponents is as much a clash of worldviews as of legal doctrine. Aligned against the Copy Left are those who sympathize with the romantic notion of authorship and view the culture as a market in which everything of value should be owned by someone or other. Jane Ginsburg, a professor at Columbia Law School who specializes in copyright law, fears that in the Copy Left's rush to secure the public domain, it gives short shrift to the author. A self-described "copyright enthusiast," Ginsburg considers the author the moral center of copyright law and questions equating copyright control with corporate greed. "Copyright cannot be understood merely as a grudgingly tolerated way station on the road to the public domain," she writes in a recent article titled "The Concept of Authorship in Comparative Copyright Law." "Because copyright arises out of the act of creating a work, authors have moral claims that neither corporate intermediaries nor consumer end-users can (straightfacedly) assert."
Ginsburg and others embrace many elements of the "permission society" demonized by the Copy Left and cite developments like the iTunes store as a sign of greaterconsumer choice and freedom. In his book "Copyright's Highway," Paul Goldstein, a professor at Stanford Law School, writes that "the logic of property rights dictates their extension into every corner in which people derive enjoyment and value from literary and artistic works." He characterizes the permission society as a "celestial jukebox" in which access to every creation -- music, literature, movies, art -- is available to anyone for a price.
An entire "digital rights management" industry has arisen to bring this vision to fruition, each company calibrating a particular license through a system of micropayments -- play a song on your computer for one price; transfer it to your MP3 player for a slightly higher fee. Goldstein argues that the scheme of a business like iTunes is actually more efficient and democratic than the commons model championed by the Copy Left. "The problem with the commons is that it doesn't take into consideration the direction of the payment; it doesn't reveal what kind of culture gets used and what kind doesn't," he says. "I think it is good to have a price tag attached to each use because it tells producers what consumers want; it lets them vote with their purchase for the kinds of culture they want."
But the Copy Left is convinced that there is a better way for the entertainment industry to adapt to the Internet age while still paying its artists their due. William Fisher, director of the Berkman Center, has spent the last three years devising an alternative compensation system that would enable the entertainment industry to restructure its business model without resorting to cumbersome micropayments. He has worked out a modified version of the system that artists' advocacy groups currently use to make sure that composers are paid when their music is performed or recorded. According to Fisher's plan, all works capable of being transmitted online would be registered with a central office (whether government or independent is unclear). The central office would then monitor how frequently a work is used and compensate the creators on that basis. The money would come from a tax on various content-related devices, like DVD burners, blank CD's or digital recorders. It is a brave proposal in a political culture that is allergic to taxes and uncomfortable with complex solutions. Still, if his numbers do indeed add up, Fisher's proposal might be the best thing that ever happened to the cultural commons: the creators would be paid, while every individual would have unlimited access to every cultural creation. 
Fisher and Charles Nesson, his colleague at Harvard Law School, have showed this proposal to movie executives and lawyers for several media conglomerates. Fisher says that his ideas have been received with great interest by the very industries -- music, home video -- that see their business models disintegrating before their eyes. 
When asked whether he thinks his ambitious scheme has a chance, Fisher says that the likeliest possibility would be for it to be adopted in countries that are neither so developed that they have signed on to international copyright protocols nor so undeveloped that they are desperate to do so. Only second-world countries, like Croatia or Brazil, he speculates, are unfettered enough to try something new. "The hope is in the rain forest," he says, in countries that "are more like the United States was before 1890, when we were a 'pirate' nation."
And in the United States, is there any future for this sort of payment system? Perhaps when the various current schemes fail, Fisher's plan will seem more attractive, he says. "What is involved here is nothing less than the shape of our culture and the way we think of ourselves as citizens," he adds. He describes a recent letter he received from a supporter of his work. "When they come for my guns and my music, they'd better bring an army," it read. "People are used to being creatively engaged with the culture," Fisher explains. "They won't let someone legislate that away."
The future of the Copy Left's efforts is still an open question. James Boyle has likened the movement's efforts to establish a cultural commons to those of the environmental movement in its infancy. Like Rachel Carson in the years before Earth Day, the Copy Left today is trying to raise awareness of the intellectual "land" to which they believe we ought to feel entitled and to propose policies and laws that will preserve it. Just as the idea of environmentalism became viable in the wake of the last century's advances in industrial production, the growth of this century's information technologies, Boyle argues, will force the country to address the erosion of the cultural commons. "The environmentalists helped us to see the world differently," he writes, "to see that there was such a thing as 'the environment' rather than just my pond, your forest, his canal. We need to do the same thing in the information environment. We have to 'invent' the public domain before we can save it." 

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (89%); US DIGITAL MILLENNIUM COPYRIGHT ACT (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); DUE PROCESS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COMPUTER CRIME (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); VETO (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (72%); OFFICE EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (71%); LITIGATION (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); WEB SITES (69%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (68%) Copyrights; Computers and the Internet; Law and Legislation; Copyrights

COMPANY: AMERICAN LEGAL SYSTEMS CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7338 SECRETARIAL & COURT REPORTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Robert S Boynton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



605 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 8204 words

HEADLINE: The Girls Next Door 

BYLINE:  By Peter Landesman; Peter Landesman is a contributing writer for the magazine. He last wrote about illegal weapons trafficking.

 BODY:
The house at 12121/ 2 West Front Street in Plainfield, N.J., is a conventional midcentury home with slate-gray siding, white trim and Victorian lines. When I stood in front of it on a breezy day in October, I could hear the cries of children from the playground of an elementary school around the corner. American flags fluttered from porches and windows. The neighborhood is a leafy, middle-class Anytown. The house is set back off the street, near two convenience stores and a gift shop. On the door of Superior Supermarket was pasted a sign issued by the Plainfield police: "Safe neighborhoods save lives." The store's manager, who refused to tell me his name, said he never noticed anything unusual about the house, and never heard anything. But David Miranda, the young man behind the counter of Westside Convenience, told me he saw girls from the house roughly once a week. "They came in to buy candy and soda, then went back to the house," he said. The same girls rarely came twice, and they were all very young, Miranda said. They never asked for anything beyond what they were purchasing; they certainly never asked for help. Cars drove up to the house all day; nice cars, all kinds of cars. Dozens of men came and went. "But no one here knew what was really going on," Miranda said. And no one ever asked. 
 On a tip, the Plainfield police raided the house in February 2002, expecting to find illegal aliens working an underground brothel. What the police found were four girls between the ages of 14 and 17. They were all Mexican nationals without documentation. But they weren't prostitutes; they were sex slaves. The distinction is important: these girls weren't working for profit or a paycheck. They were captives to the traffickers and keepers who controlled their every move. "I consider myself hardened," Mark J. Kelly, now a special agent with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (the largest investigative arm of the Department of Homeland Security), told me recently. "I spent time in the Marine Corps. But seeing some of the stuff I saw, then heard about, from those girls was a difficult, eye-opening experience." 
 The police found a squalid, land-based equivalent of a 19th-century slave ship, with rancid, doorless bathrooms; bare, putrid mattresses; and a stash of penicillin, "morning after" pills and misoprostol, an antiulcer medication that can induce abortion. The girls were pale, exhausted and malnourished. 
It turned out that 1212 1/2 West Front Street was one of what law-enforcement officials say are dozens of active stash houses and apartments in the New York metropolitan area -- mirroring hundreds more in other major cities like Los Angeles, Atlanta and Chicago -- where under-age girls and young women from dozens of countries are trafficked and held captive. Most of them -- whether they started out in Eastern Europe or Latin America -- are taken to the United States through Mexico. Some of them have been baited by promises of legitimate jobs and a better life in America; many have been abducted; others have been bought from or abandoned by their impoverished families. 
Because of the porousness of the U.S.-Mexico border and the criminal networks that traverse it, the towns and cities along that border have become the main staging area in an illicit and barbaric industry, whose "products" are women and girls. On both sides of the border, they are rented out for sex for as little as 15 minutes at a time, dozens of times a day. Sometimes they are sold outright to other traffickers and sex rings, victims and experts say. These sex slaves earn no money, there is nothing voluntary about what they do and if they try to escape they are often beaten and sometimes killed. 
Last September, in a speech before the United Nations General Assembly, President Bush named sex trafficking as "a special evil," a multibillion-dollar "underground of brutality and lonely fear," a global scourge alongside the AIDS epidemic. Influenced by a coalition of religious organizations, the Bush administration has pushed international action on the global sex trade. The president declared at the U.N. that "those who create these victims and profit from their suffering must be severely punished" and that "those who patronize this industry debase themselves and deepen the misery of others. And governments that tolerate this trade are tolerating a form of slavery." 
Under the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 -- the first U.S. law to recognize that people trafficked against their will are victims of a crime, not illegal aliens -- the U.S. government rates other countries' records on human trafficking and can apply economic sanctions on those that aren't making efforts to improve them. Another piece of legislation, the Protect Act, which Bush signed into law last year, makes it a crime for any person to enter the U.S., or for any citizen to travel abroad, for the purpose of sex tourism involving children. The sentences are severe: up to 30 years' imprisonment for each offense. 
The thrust of the president's U.N. speech and the scope of the laws passed here to address the sex-trafficking epidemic might suggest that this is a global problem but not particularly an American one. In reality, little has been done to document sex trafficking in this country. In dozens of interviews I conducted with former sex slaves, madams, government and law-enforcement officials and anti-sex-trade activists for more than four months in Eastern Europe, Mexico and the United States, the details and breadth of this sordid trade in the U.S. came to light.
In fact, the United States has become a major importer of sex slaves. Last year, the C.I.A. estimated that between 18,000 and 20,000 people are trafficked annually into the United States. The government has not studied how many of these are victims of sex traffickers, but Kevin Bales, president of Free the Slaves, America's largest anti-slavery organization, says that the number is at least 10,000 a year. John Miller, the State Department's director of the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, conceded: "That figure could be low. What we know is that the number is huge." Bales estimates that there are 30,000 to 50,000 sex slaves in captivity in the United States at any given time. Laura Lederer, a senior State Department adviser on trafficking, told me, "We're not finding victims in the United States because we're not looking for them."

ABDUCTION
In Eastern European capitals like Kiev and Moscow, dozens of sex-trafficking rings advertise nanny positions in the United States in local newspapers; others claim to be scouting for models and actresses. In Chisinau, the capital of the former Soviet republic of Moldova -- the poorest country in Europe and the one experts say is most heavily culled by traffickers for young women -- I saw a billboard with a fresh-faced, smiling young woman beckoning girls to waitress positions in Paris. But of course there are no waitress positions and no "Paris." Some of these young women are actually tricked into paying their own travel expenses -- typically around $3,000 -- as a down payment on what they expect to be bright, prosperous futures, only to find themselves kept prisoner in Mexico before being moved to the United States and sold into sexual bondage there.
The Eastern European trafficking operations, from entrapment to transport, tend to be well-oiled monoethnic machines. One notorious Ukrainian ring, which has since been broken up, was run by Tetyana Komisaruk and Serge Mezheritsky. One of their last transactions, according to Daniel Saunders, an assistant U.S. attorney in Los Angeles, took place in late June 2000 at the Hard Rock Cafe in Tijuana. Around dinnertime, a buyer named Gordey Vinitsky walked in. He was followed shortly after by Komisaruk's husband, Valery, who led Vinitsky out to the parking lot and to a waiting van. Inside the van were six Ukrainian women in their late teens and early 20's. They had been promised jobs as models and baby sitters in the glamorous United States, and they probably had no idea why they were sitting in a van in a backwater like Tijuana in the early evening. Vinitsky pointed into the van at two of the women and said he'd take them for $10,000 each. Valery drove the young women to a gated villa 20 minutes away in Rosarito, a Mexican honky-tonk tourist trap in Baja California. They were kept there until July 4, when they were delivered to San Diego by boat and distributed to their buyers, including Vinitsky, who claimed his two "purchases." The Komisaruks, Mezheritsky and Vinitsky were caught in May 2001 and are serving long sentences in U.S. federal prison. 
In October, I met Nicole, a young Russian woman who had been trafficked into Mexico by a different network. "I wanted to get out of Moscow, and they told me the Mexican border was like a freeway," said Nicole, who is now 25. We were sitting at a cafe on the Sunset Strip in Los Angeles, and she was telling me the story of her narrow escape from sex slavery -- she was taken by immigration officers when her traffickers were trying to smuggle her over the border from Tijuana. She still seemed fearful of being discovered by the trafficking ring and didn't want even her initials to appear in print. (Nicole is a name she adopted after coming to the U.S.) 
Two years ago, afraid for her life after her boyfriend was gunned down in Moscow in an organized-crime-related shootout, she found herself across a cafe table in Moscow from a man named Alex, who explained how he could save her by smuggling her into the U.S. Once she agreed, Nicole said, Alex told her that if she didn't show up at the airport, "'I'll find you and cut your head off.' Russians do not play around. In Moscow you can get a bullet in your head just for fun."
Donna M. Hughes, a professor of women's studies at the University of Rhode Island and an expert on sex trafficking, says that prostitution barely existed 12 years ago in the Soviet Union. "It was suppressed by political structures. All the women had jobs." But in the first years after the collapse of Soviet Communism, poverty in the former Soviet states soared. Young women -- many of them college-educated and married -- became easy believers in Hollywood-generated images of swaying palm trees in L.A. "A few of them have an idea that prostitution might be involved," Hughes says. "But their idea of prostitution is 'Pretty Woman,' which is one of the most popular films in Ukraine and Russia. They're thinking, This may not be so bad." 
The girls' first contacts are usually with what appear to be legitimate travel agencies. According to prosecutors, the Komisaruk/Mezheritsky ring in Ukraine worked with two such agencies in Kiev, Art Life International and Svit Tours. The helpful agents at Svit and Art Life explained to the girls that the best way to get into the U.S. was through Mexico, which they portrayed as a short walk or boat ride from the American dream. Oblivious and full of hope, the girls get on planes to Europe and then on to Mexico.
Every day, flights from Paris, London and Amsterdam arrive at Mexico City's international airport carrying groups of these girls, sometimes as many as seven at a time, according to two Mexico City immigration officers I spoke with (and who asked to remain anonymous). One of them told me that officials at the airport -- who cooperate with Mexico's federal preventive police (P.F.P.) -- work with the traffickers and "direct airlines to park at certain gates. Officials go to the aircraft. They know the seat numbers. While passengers come off, they take the girls to an office, where officials will 'process' them." 
Magdalena Carral, Mexico's commissioner of the National Institute of Migration, the government agency that controls migration issues at all airports, seaports and land entries into Mexico, told me: "Everything happens at the airport. We are giving a big fight to have better control of the airport. Corruption does not leave tracks, and sometimes we cannot track it. Six months ago we changed the three main officials at the airport. But it's a daily fight. These networks are very powerful and dangerous."
But Mexico is not merely a way station en route to the U.S. for third-country traffickers, like the Eastern European rings. It is also a vast source of even younger and more cheaply acquired girls for sexual servitude in the United States. While European traffickers tend to dupe their victims into boarding one-way flights to Mexico to their own captivity, Mexican traffickers rely on the charm and brute force of "Los Lenones," tightly organized associations of pimps, according to Roberto Caballero, an officer with the P.F.P. Although hundreds of "popcorn traffickers" -- individuals who take control of one or two girls -- work the margins, Caballero said, at least 15 major trafficking organizations and 120 associated factions tracked by the P.F.P. operate as wholesalers: collecting human merchandise and taking orders from safe houses and brothels in the major sex-trafficking hubs in New York, Los Angeles, Atlanta and Chicago. 
Like the Sicilian Mafia, Los Lenones are based on family hierarchies, Caballero explained. The father controls the organization and the money, while the sons and their male cousins hunt, kidnap and entrap victims. The boys leave school at 12 and are given one or two girls their age to rape and pimp out to begin their training, which emphasizes the arts of kidnapping and seduction. Throughout the rural and suburban towns from southern Mexico to the U.S. border, along what traffickers call the Via Lactea, or Milky Way, the agents of Los Lenones troll the bus stations and factories and school dances where under-age girls gather, work and socialize. They first ply the girls like prospective lovers, buying them meals and desserts, promising affection and then marriage. Then the men describe rumors they've heard about America, about the promise of jobs and schools. Sometimes the girls are easy prey. Most of them already dream of El Norte. But the theater often ends as soon as the agent has the girl alone, when he beats her, drugs her or simply forces her into a waiting car.
The majority of Los Lenones -- 80 percent of them, Caballero says -- are based in Tenancingo, a charmless suburb an hour's drive south of Mexico City. Before I left Mexico City for Tenancingo in October, I was warned by Mexican and U.S. officials that the traffickers there are protected by the local police, and that the town is designed to discourage outsiders, with mazelike streets and only two closely watched entrances. The last time the federal police went there to investigate the disappearance of a local girl, their vehicle was surrounded, and the officers were intimidated into leaving. I traveled in a bulletproof Suburban with well-armed federales and an Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent. 
On the way, we stopped at a gas station, where I met the parents of a girl from Tenancingo who was reportedly abducted in August 2000. The girl, Suri, is now 20. Her mother told me that there were witnesses who saw her being forced into a car on the way home from work at a local factory. No one called the police. Suri's mother recited the names of daughters of a number of her friends who have also been taken: "Minerva, Sylvia, Carmen," she said in a monotone, as if the list went on and on. 
Just two days earlier, her parents heard from Suri (they call her by her nickname) for the first time since she disappeared. "She's in Queens, New York," the mother told me breathlessly. "She said she was being kept in a house watched by Colombians. She said they take her by car every day to work in a brothel. I was crying on the phone, 'When are you coming back, when are you coming back?' " The mother looked at me helplessly; the father stared blankly into the distance. Then the mother sobered. "My daughter said: 'I'm too far away. I don't know when I'm coming back."' Before she hung up, Suri told her mother: "Don't cry. I'll escape soon. And don't talk to anyone."
Sex-trafficking victims widely believe that if they talk, they or someone they love will be killed. And their fear is not unfounded, since the tentacles of the trafficking rings reach back into the girls' hometowns, and local law enforcement is often complicit in the sex trade. 
One officer in the P.F.P.'s anti-trafficking division told me that 10 high-level officials in the state of Sonora share a $200,000 weekly payoff from traffickers, a gargantuan sum of money for Mexico. The officer told me with a frozen smile that he was powerless to do anything about it.
"Some officials are not only on the organization's payroll, they are key players in the organization," an official at the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City told me. "Corruption is the most important reason these networks are so successful."
Nicolas Suarez, the P.F.P.'s coordinator of intelligence, sounded fatalistic about corruption when I spoke to him in Mexico City in September. "We have that cancer, corruption," he told me with a shrug. "But it exists in every country. In every house there is a devil."
The U.S. Embassy official told me: "Mexican officials see sex trafficking as a U.S. problem. If there wasn't such a large demand, then people -- trafficking victims and migrants alike -- wouldn't be going up there." 
When I asked Magdalena Carral, the Mexican commissioner of migration, about these accusations, she said that she didn't know anything about Los Lenones or sex trafficking in Tenancingo. But she conceded: "There is an investigation against some officials accused of cooperating with these trafficking networks nationwide. Sonora is one of those places." She added, "We are determined not to allow any kind of corruption in this administration, not the smallest kind."
Gary Haugen, president of the International Justice Mission, an organization based in Arlington, Va., that fights sexual exploitation in South Asia and Southeast Asia, says: "Sex trafficking isn't a poverty issue but a law-enforcement issue. You can only carry out this trade at significant levels with the cooperation of local law enforcement. In the developing world the police are not seen as a solution for anything. You don't run to the police; you run from the police."

BREAKING THE GIRLS IN
Once the Mexican traffickers abduct or seduce the women and young girls, it's not other men who first indoctrinate them into sexual slavery but other women. The victims and officials I spoke to all emphasized this fact as crucial to the trafficking rings' success. "Women are the principals," Caballero, the Mexican federal preventive police officer, told me. "The victims are put under the influence of the mothers, who handle them and beat them. Then they give the girls to the men to beat and rape into submission." Traffickers understand that because women can more easily gain the trust of young girls, they can more easily crush them. "Men are the customers and controllers, but within most trafficking organizations themselves, women are the operators," Haugen says. "Women are the ones who exert violent force and psychological torture."
This mirrors the tactics of the Eastern European rings. "Mexican pimps have learned a lot from European traffickers," said Claudia, a former prostitute and madam in her late 40's, whom I met in Tepito, Mexico City's vast and lethal ghetto. "The Europeans not only gather girls but put older women in the same houses," she told me. "They get younger and older women emotionally attached. They're transported together, survive together."
The traffickers' harvest is innocence. Before young women and girls are taken to the United States, their captors want to obliterate their sexual inexperience while preserving its appearance. For the Eastern European girls, this "preparation" generally happens in Ensenada, a seaside tourist town in Baja California, a region in Mexico settled by Russian immigrants, or Tijuana, where Nicole, the Russian woman I met in Los Angeles, was taken along with four other girls when she arrived in Mexico. The young women are typically kept in locked-down, gated villas in groups of 16 to 20. The girls are provided with all-American clothing -- Levi's and baseball caps. They learn to say, "U.S. citizen." They are also sexually brutalized. Nicole told me that the day she arrived in Tijuana, three of her traveling companions were "tried out" locally. The education lasts for days and sometimes weeks.
For the Mexican girls abducted by Los Lenones, the process of breaking them in often begins on Calle Santo Tomas, a filthy narrow street in La Merced, a dangerous and raucous ghetto in Mexico City. Santo Tomas has been a place for low-end prostitution since before Spain's conquest of Mexico in the 16th century. But beginning in the early 90's, it became an important training ground for under-age girls and young women on their way into sexual bondage in the United States. When I first visited Santo Tomas, in late September, I found 150 young women walking a slow-motion parabola among 300 or 400 men. It was a balmy night, and the air was heavy with the smell of barbecue and gasoline. Two dead dogs were splayed over the curb just beyond where the girls struck casual poses in stilettos and spray-on-tight neon vinyl and satin or skimpy leopard-patterned outfits. Some of the girls looked as young as 12. Their faces betrayed no emotion. Many wore pendants of the grim reaper around their necks and made hissing sounds; this, I was told, was part of a ritual to ward off bad energy. The men, who were there to rent or just gaze, didn't speak. From the tables of a shabby cafe midblock, other men -- also Mexicans, but more neatly dressed -- sat scrutinizing the girls as at an auction. These were buyers and renters with an interest in the youngest and best looking. They nodded to the girls they wanted and then followed them past a guard in a Yankees baseball cap through a tin doorway. 
Inside, the girls braced the men before a statue of St. Jude, the patron saint of lost causes, and patted them down for weapons. Then the girls genuflected to the stone-faced saint and led the men to the back, grabbing a condom and roll of toilet paper on the way. They pointed to a block of ice in a tub in lieu of a urinal. Beyond a blue hallway the air went sour, like old onions; there were 30stalls curtained off by blue fabric, every one in use. Fifteen minutes of straightforward intercourse with the girl's clothes left on cost 50 pesos, or about $4.50. For $4.50 more, the dress was lifted. For another $4.50, the bra would be taken off. Oral sex was $4.50; "acrobatic positions" were $1.80 each. Despite the dozens of people and the various exertions in this room, there were only the sounds of zippers and shoes. There was no human noise at all. 
Most of the girls on Santo Tomas would have sex with 20 to 30 men a day; they would do this seven days a week usually for weeks but sometimes for months before they were "ready" for the United States. If they refused, they would be beaten and sometimes killed. They would be told that if they tried to escape, one of their family members, who usually had no idea where they were, would be beaten or killed. Working at the brutalizing pace of 20 men per day, a girl could earn her captors as much as $2,000 a week. In the U.S., that same girl could bring in perhaps $30,000 per week. 
In Europe, girls and women trafficked for the sex trade gain in value the closer they get to their destinations. According to Iana Matei, who operates Reaching Out, a Romanian rescue organization, a Romanian or Moldovan girl can be sold to her first transporter -- who she may or may not know has taken her captive -- for as little as $60, then for $500 to the next. Eventually she can be sold for $2,500 to the organization that will ultimately control and rent her for sex for tens of thousands of dollars a week. (Though the Moldovan and Romanian organizations typically smuggle girls to Western Europe and not the United States, they are, Matei says, closely allied with Russian and Ukrainian networks that do.) 
Jonathan M. Winer, deputy assistant secretary of state for international law enforcement in the Clinton administration, says, "The girls are worth a penny or a ruble in their home village, and suddenly they're worth hundreds and thousands somewhere else."

CROSSING THE BORDER
In November, I followed by helicopter the 12-foot-high sheet-metal fence that represents the U.S.-Mexico boundary from Imperial Beach, Calif., south of San Diego, 14 miles across the gritty warrens and havoc of Tijuana into the barren hills of Tecate. The fence drops off abruptly at Colonia Nido de las Aguilas, a dry riverbed that straddles the border. Four hundred square miles of bone-dry, barren hills stretch out on the U.S. side. I hovered over the end of the fence with Lester McDaniel, a special agent with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. On the U.S. side, "J-e-s-u-s" was spelled out in rocks 10 feet high across a steep hillside. A 15-foot white wooden cross rose from the peak. It is here that thousands of girls and young women -- most of them Mexican and many of them straight from Calle Santo Tomas -- are taken every year, mostly between January and August, the dry season. Coyotes -- or smugglers -- subcontracted exclusively by sex traffickers sometimes trudge the girls up to the cross and let them pray, then herd them into the hills northward.
A few miles east, we picked up a deeply grooved trail at the fence and followed it for miles into the hills until it plunged into a deep isolated ravine called Cottonwood Canyon. A Ukrainian sex-trafficking ring force-marches young women through here, McDaniel told me. In high heels and seductive clothing, the young women trek 12 miles to Highway 94, where panel trucks sit waiting. McDaniel listed the perils: rattlesnakes, dehydration and hypothermia. He failed to mention thetraffickers' bullets should the women try to escape. 
"If a girl tries to run, she's killed and becomes just one more woman in the desert," says Marisa B. Ugarte, director of the Bilateral Safety Corridor Coalition, a San Diego organization that coordinates rescue efforts for trafficking victims on both sides of the border. "But if she keeps going north, she reaches the Gates of Hell."
One girl who was trafficked back and forth across that border repeatedly was Andrea. "Andrea" is just one name she was given by her traffickers and clients; she doesn't know her real name. She was born in the United States and sold or abandoned here -- at about 4 years old, she says -- by a woman who may have been her mother. (She is now in her early to mid-20's; she doesn't know for sure.) She says that she spent approximately the next 12 years as the captive of a sex-trafficking ring that operated on both sides of the Mexican border. Because of the threat of retribution from her former captors, who are believed to be still at large, an organization that rescues and counsels trafficking victims and former prostitutes arranged for me to meet Andrea in October at a secret location in the United States.
In a series of excruciating conversations, Andrea explained to me how the trafficking ring that kept her worked, moving young girls (and boys too) back and forth over the border, selling nights and weekends with them mostly to American men. She said that the ring imported -- both through abduction and outright purchase -- toddlers, children and teenagers into the U.S. from many countries.
"The border is very busy, lots of stuff moving back and forth," she said. "Say you needed to get some kids. This guy would offer a woman a lot of money, and she'd take birth certificates from the U.S. -- from Puerto Rican children or darker-skinned children -- and then she would go into Mexico through Tijuana. Then she'd drive to Juarez" -- across the Mexican border from El Paso, Tex. -- "and then they'd go shopping. I was taken with them once. We went to this house that had a goat in the front yard and came out with a 4-year-old boy." She remembers the boy costing around $500 (she said that many poor parents were told that their children would go to adoption agencies and on to better lives in America). "When we crossed the border at Juarez, all the border guards wanted to see was a birth certificate for the dark-skinned kids."
Andrea continued: "There would be a truck waiting for us at the Mexico border, and those trucks you don't want to ride in. Those trucks are closed. They had spots where there would be transfers, the rest stops and truck stops on the freeways in the U.S. One person would walk you into the bathroom, and then another person would take you out of the bathroom and take you to a different vehicle."
Andrea told me she was transported to Juarez dozens of times. During one visit, when she was about 7 years old, the trafficker took her to the Radisson Casa Grande Hotel, where there was a john waiting in a room. The john was an older American man, and he read Bible passages to her before and after having sex with her. Andrea described other rooms she remembered in other hotels in Mexico: the Howard Johnson in Leon, the Crowne Plaza in Guadalajara. She remembers most of all the ceiling patterns. "When I was taken to Mexico, I knew things were going to be different," she said. The "customers" were American businessmen. "The men who went there had higher positions, had more to lose if they were caught doing these things on the other side of the border. I was told my purpose was to keep these men from abusing their own kids." Later she told me: "The white kids you could beat but you couldn't mark. But with Mexican kids you could do whatever you wanted. They're untraceable. You lose nothing by killing them." 
Then she and the other children and teenagers in this cell were walked back across the border to El Paso by the traffickers. "The border guards talked to you like, 'Did you have fun in Mexico?' And you answered exactly what you were told, 'Yeah, I had fun.' 'Runners' moved the harder-to-place kids, the darker or not-quite-as-well-behaved kids, kids that hadn't been broken yet."
Another trafficking victim I met, a young woman named Montserrat, was taken to the United States from Veracruz, Mexico, six years ago, at age 13. (Montserrat is her nickname.) "I was going to work in America," she told me. "I wanted to go to school there, have an apartment and a red Mercedes Benz." Montserrat's trafficker, who called himself Alejandro, took her to Sonora, across the Mexican border from Douglas, Ariz., where she joined a group of a dozen other teenage girls, all with the same dream of a better life. They were from Chiapas, Guatemala, Oaxaca -- everywhere, she said.
The group was marched 12 hours through the desert, just a few of the thousands of Mexicans who bolted for America that night along the 2,000 miles of border. Cars were waiting at a fixed spot on the other side. Alejandro directed her to a Nissan and drove her and a few others to a house she said she thought was in Phoenix, the home of a white American family. "It looked like America," she told me. "I ate chicken. The family ignored me, watched TV. I thought the worst part was behind me."

IN THE UNITED STATES: HIDING IN PLAIN SIGHT
A week after Montserrat was taken across the border, she said, she and half a dozen other girls were loaded into a windowless van. "Alejandro dropped off girls at gas stations as we drove, wherever there were minimarkets," Montserrat told me. At each drop-off there was somebody waiting. Sometimes a girl would be escorted to the bathroom, never to return to the van. They drove 24 hours a day. "As the girls were leaving, being let out the back, all of them 14 or 15 years old, I felt confident," Montserrat said. We were talking in Mexico City, where she has been since she escaped from her trafficker four years ago. She's now 19, and shy with her body but direct with her gaze, which is flat and unemotional. "I didn't know the real reason they were disappearing," she said. "They were going to a better life."
Eventually, only Montserrat and one other girl remained. Outside, the air had turned frigid, and there was snow on the ground. It was night when the van stopped at a gas station. A man was waiting. Montserrat's friend hopped out the back, gleeful. "She said goodbye, I'll see you tomorrow," Montserrat recalled. "I never saw her again."
After leaving the gas station, Alejandro drove Montserrat to an apartment. A couple of weeks later he took her to a Dollarstore. "He bought me makeup," Montserrat told me. "He chose a short dress and a halter top, both black. I asked him why the clothes. He said it was for a party the owner of the apartment was having. He bought me underwear. Then I started to worry." When they arrived at the apartment, Alejandro left, saying he was coming back. But another man appeared at the door. "The man said he'd already paid and I had to do whatever he said," Montserrat said. "When he said he already paid, I knew why I was there. I was crushed."
Montserrat said that she didn't leave that apartment for the next three months, then for nine months after that, Alejandro regularly took her in and out of the apartment for appointments with various johns.
Sex trafficking is one of the few human rights violations that rely on exposure: victims have to be available, displayed, delivered and returned. Girls were shuttled in open cars between the Plainfield, N.J., stash house and other locations in northern New Jersey like Elizabeth and Union City. Suri told her mother that she was being driven in a black town car -- just one of hundreds of black town cars traversing New York City at any time -- from her stash house in Queens to places where she was forced to have sex. A Russian ring drove women between various Brooklyn apartments and strip clubs in New Jersey. Andrea named trading hubs at highway rest stops in Deming, N.M.; Kingman, Ariz.; Boulder City, Nev.; and Glendale, Calif. Glendale, Andrea said, was a fork in the road; from there, vehicles went either north to San Jose or south toward San Diego. The traffickers drugged them for travel, she said. "When they fed you, you started falling asleep."
In the past several months, I have visited a number of addresses where trafficked girls and young women have reportedly ended up: besides the house in Plainfield, N.J., there is a row house on 51st Avenue in the Corona section of Queens, which has been identified to Mexican federal preventive police by escaped trafficking victims. There is the apartment at Barrington Plaza in the tony Westwood section of Los Angeles, one place that some of the Komisaruk/Mezheritsky ring's trafficking victims ended up, according to Daniel Saunders, the assistant U.S. attorney who prosecuted the ring. And there's a house on Massachusetts Avenue in Vista, Calif., a San Diego suburb, which was pointed out to me by a San Diego sheriff. These places all have at least one thing in common: they are camouflaged by their normal, middle-class surroundings. 
"This is not narco-traffic secrecy," says Sharon B. Cohn, director of anti-trafficking operations for the International Justice Mission. "These are not people kidnapped and held for ransom, but women and children sold every single day. If they're hidden, their keepers don't make money."
I.J.M.'s president, Gary Haugen, says: "It's the easiest kind of crime in the world to spot. Men look for it all day, every day."
But border agents and local policemen usually don't know trafficking when they see it. The operating assumption among American police departments is that women who sell their bodies do so by choice, and undocumented foreign women who sell their bodies are not only prostitutes (that is, voluntary sex workers) but also trespassers on U.S. soil. No Department of Justice attorney or police vice squad officer I spoke with in Los Angeles -- one of the country's busiest thoroughfares for forced sex traffic -- considers sex trafficking in the U.S. a serious problem, or a priority. A teenage girl arrested on Sunset Strip for solicitation, or a group of Russian sex workers arrested in a brothel raid in the San Fernando Valley, are automatically heaped onto a pile of workaday vice arrests. 
The U.S. now offers 5,000 visas a year to trafficking victims to allow them to apply for residency. And there's faint hope among sex-trafficking experts that the Bush administration's recent proposal on Mexican immigration, if enacted, could have some positive effect on sex traffic into the U.S., by sheltering potential witnesses. "If illegal immigrants who have information about victims have a chanceat legal status in this country, they might feel secure enough to come forward," says John Miller of the State Department. But ambiguities still dominate on the front lines -- the borders and the streets of urban America -- where sex trafficking will always look a lot like prostitution. 
"It's not a particularly complicated thing," says Sharon Cohn of International Justice Mission. "Sex trafficking gets thrown into issues of intimacy and vice, but it's a major crime. It's purely profit and pleasure, and greed and lust, and it's right under homicide."

IMPRISONMENT AND SUBMISSION
The basement, Andrea said, held as many as 16 children and teenagers of different ethnicities. She remembers that it was underneath a house in an upper-middle-class neighborhood on the West Coast. Throughout much of her captivity, this basement was where she was kept when she wasn't working. "There was lots of scrawling on the walls," she said. "The other kids drew stick figures, daisies, teddy bears. This Mexican boy would draw a house with sunshine. We each had a mat."
Andrea paused. "But nothing happens to you in the basement," she continued. "You just had to worry about when the door opened."
She explained: "They would call you out of the basement, and you'd get a bath and you'd get a dress, and if your dress was yellow you were probably going to Disneyland." She said they used color coding to make transactions safer for the traffickers and the clients. "At Disneyland there would be people doing drop-offs and pickups for kids. It's a big open area full of kids, and nobody pays attention to nobody. They would kind of quietly say, 'Go over to that person,' and you would just slip your hand into theirs and say, 'I was looking for you, Daddy.' Then that person would move off with one or two or three of us."
Her account reminded me -- painfully -- of the legend of the Pied Piper of Hamelin. In the story, a piper shows up and asks for 1,000 guilders for ridding the town of a plague of rats. Playing his pipe, he lures all the rats into the River Weser, where they drown. But Hamelin's mayor refuses to pay him. The piper goes back into the streets and again starts to play his music. This time "all the little boys and girls, with rosy cheeks and flaxen curls, and sparkling eyes and teeth like pearls" follow him out of town and into the hills. The piper leads the children to a mountainside, where a portal opens. The children follow him in, the cave closes and Hamelin's children -- all but one, too lame to keep up -- are never seen again.
Montserrat said that she was moved around a lot and often didn't know where she was. She recalled that she was in Detroit for two months before she realized that she was in "the city where cars are made," because the door to the apartment Alejandro kept her in was locked from the outside. She says she was forced to service at least two men a night, and sometimes more. She watched through the windows as neighborhood children played outside. Emotionally, she slowly dissolved. Later, Alejandro moved her to Portland, Ore., where once a week he worked her out of a strip club. In all that time she had exactly one night off; Alejandro took her to see "Scary Movie 2."
All the girls I spoke to said that their captors were both psychologically and physically abusive. Andrea told me that she and the other children she was held with were frequently beaten to keep them off-balance and obedient. Sometimes they were videotaped while being forced to have sex with adults or one another. Often, she said, she was asked to play roles: the therapist's patient or the obedient daughter. Her cell of sex traffickers offered three age ranges of sex partners -- toddler to age 4, 5 to 12 and teens -- as well as what she called a "damage group." "In the damage group they can hit you or do anything they wanted," she explained. "Though sex always hurts when you are little, so it's always violent, everything was much more painful once you were placed in the damage group. 
"They'd get you hungry then to train you" to have oral sex, she said. "They'd put honey on a man. For the littlest kids, you had to learn not to gag. And they would push things in you so you would open up better. We learned responses. Like if they wanted us to be sultry or sexy or scared. Most of them wanted you scared. When I got older I'd teach the younger kids how to float away so things didn't hurt."
Kevin Bales of Free the Slaves says: "The physical path of a person being trafficked includes stages of degradation of a person's mental state. A victim gets deprived of food, gets hungry, a little dizzy and sleep-deprived. She begins to break down; she can't think for herself. Then take away her travel documents, and you've made her stateless. Then layer on physical violence, and she begins to follow orders. Then add a foreign culture and language, and she's trapped."
Then add one more layer: a sex-trafficking victim's belief that her family is being tracked as collateral for her body. All sex-trafficking operations, whether Mexican, Ukrainian or Thai, are vast criminal underworlds with roots and branches that reach back to the countries, towns and neighborhoods of their victims. 
"There's a vast misunderstanding of what coercion is, of how little it takes to make someone a slave," Gary Haugen of International Justice Mission said. "The destruction of dignity and sense of self, these girls' sense of resignation. . . . " He didn't finish the sentence. 
In Tijuana in November, I met with Mamacita, a Mexican trafficking-victim-turned-madam, who used to oversee a stash house for sex slaves in San Diego. Mamacita (who goes by a nickname) was full of regret and worry. She left San Diego three years ago, but she says that the trafficking ring, run by three violent Mexican brothers, is still in operation. "The girls can't leave," Mamacita said. "They're always being watched. They lock them into apartments. The fear is unbelievable. They can't talk to anyone. They are always hungry, pale, always shaking and cold. But they never complain. If they do, they'll be beaten or killed."
In Vista, Calif., I followed a pickup truck driven by a San Diego sheriff's deputy named Rick Castro. We wound past a tidy suburban downtown, a supermall and the usual hometown franchises. We stopped alongside the San Luis Rey River, across the street from a Baptist church, a strawberry farm and a municipal ballfield. 
A neat subdivision and cycling path ran along the opposite bank. The San Luis Rey was mostly dry, filled now with an impenetrable jungle of 15-foot-high bamboolike reeds. As Castro and I started down a well-worn path into the thicket, he told me about the time he first heard about this place, in October 2001. A local health care worker had heard rumors about Mexican immigrants using the reeds for sex and came down to offer condoms and advice. She found more than 400 men and 50 young women between 12 and 15 dressed in tight clothing and high heels. There was a separate group of a dozen girls no more than 11 or 12 wearing white communion dresses. "The girls huddled in a circle for protection," Castro told me, "and had big eyes like terrified deer."
I followed Castro into the riverbed, and only 50 yards from the road we found a confounding warren of more than 30 roomlike caves carved into the reeds. It was a sunny morning, but the light in there was refracted, dreary and basementlike. The ground in each was a squalid nest of mud, tamped leaves, condom wrappers, clumps of toilet paper and magazines. Soiled underwear was strewn here and there, plastic garbage bags jury-rigged through the reeds in lieu of walls. One of the caves' inhabitants had hung old CD's on the tips of branches, like Christmas ornaments. It looked vaguely like a recent massacre site. It was 8 in the morning, but the girls could begin arriving any minute. Castro told me how it works: the girls are dropped off at the ballfield, then herded through a drainage sluice under the road into the riverbed. Vans shuttle the men from a 7-Eleven a mile away. The girls are forced to turn 15 tricks in five hours in the mud. The johns pay $15 and get 10 minutes. It is in nearly every respect a perfect extension of Calle Santo Tomas in Mexico City. Except that this is what some of those girls are training for.
If anything, the women I talked to said that the sex in the U.S. is even rougher than what the girls face on Calle Santo Tomas. Rosario, a woman I met in Mexico City, who had been trafficked to New York and held captive for a number of years, said: "In America we had 'special jobs.' Oral sex, anal sex, often with many men. Sex is now more adventurous, harder." She said that she believed younger foreign girls were in demand in the U.S. because of an increased appetite for more aggressive, dangerous sex. Traffickers need younger and younger girls, she suggested, simply because they are more pliable. In Eastern Europe, too, the typical age of sex-trafficking victims is plummeting; according to Matei of Reaching Out, while most girls used to be in their late teens and 20's, 13-year-olds are now far from unusual.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents at the Cyber Crimes Center in Fairfax, Va., are finding that when it comes to sex, what was once considered abnormal is now the norm. They are tracking a clear spike in the demand for harder-core pornography on the Internet. "We've become desensitized by the soft stuff; now we need a harder and harder hit," says I.C.E. Special Agent Perry Woo. Cybernetworks like KaZaA and Morpheus / through which you can download and trade images and videos -- have become the Mexican border of virtual sexual exploitation. I had heard of one Web site that supposedly offered sex slaves for purchase to individuals. The I.C.E. agents hadn't heard of it. Special Agent Don Daufenbach, I.C.E.'s manager for undercover operations, brought it up on a screen. A hush came over the room as the agents leaned forward, clearly disturbed. "That sure looks like the real thing," Daufenbach said. There were streams of Web pages of thumbnail images of young women of every ethnicity in obvious distress, bound, gagged, contorted. The agents in the room pointed out probable injuries from torture. Cyberauctions for some of the women were in progress; one had exceeded $300,000. "With new Internet technology," Woo said, "pornography is becoming more pervasive. With Web cams we're seeing more live molestation of children." One of I.C.E.'s recent successes, Operation Hamlet, broke up a ring of adults who traded images and videos of themselves forcing sex on their own young children.
But the supply of cheap girls and young women to feed the global appetite appears to be limitless. And it's possible that the crimes committed against them in the U.S. cut deeper than elsewhere, precisely because so many of them are snared by the glittery promise of an America that turns out to be not their salvation but their place of destruction. 

ENDGAME
Typically, a young trafficking victim in the U.S. lasts in the system for two to four years. After that, Bales says: "She may be killed in the brothel. She may be dumped and deported. Probably least likely is that she will take part in the prosecution of the people that enslaved her."
Who can expect a young woman trafficked into the U.S., trapped in a foreign culture, perhaps unable to speak English, physically and emotionally abused and perhaps drug-addicted, to ask for help from a police officer, who more likely than not will look at her as a criminal and an illegal alien? Even Andrea, who was born in the United States and spoke English, says she never thought of escaping, "because what's out there? What's out there was scarier. We had customers who were police, so you were not going to go talk to a cop. We had this customer from Nevada who was a child psychologist, so you're not going to go talk to a social worker. So who are you going to talk to?"
And if the girls are lucky enough to escape, there's often nowhere for them to go. "The families don't want them back," Sister Veronica, a nun who helps run a rescue mission for trafficked prostitutes in an old church in Mexico City, told me. "They're shunned."
When I first met her, Andrea told me: "We're way too damaged to give back. A lot of these children never wanted to see their parents again after a while, because what do you tell your parents? What are you going to say? You're no good." 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 25 about sexual slavery referred erroneously to the film "Scary Movie 2." A Mexican woman who was being held as a sex slave in the United States could not have been taken to see it by her captor; by the time the movie came out in 2001, she had already escaped and returned to Mexico.
"The Girls Next Door," an article about the importing of women and girls to the United States for sexual slavery, has generated much discussion since it appeared in The Times Magazine on Jan. 25. In response to questions from readers and other publications about sources and accuracy, the magazine has carried out a thorough review of the article. 
On the issue of sources, the writer, Peter Landesman, conducted more than 45 interviews, including many with high-ranking federal officials, law enforcement officers and representatives of human rights organizations. Four sources insisted on anonymity to protect their professional positions. A magazine fact checker also interviewed all relevant sources, many of them both before and after publication. Some readers have questioned the figure of 10,000 enforced prostitutes brought into this country each year. The source of that number is Kevin Bales, recommended to the magazine by Human Rights Watch as the best authority on the extent of enforced prostitution in the United States, who based his estimates on State Department documents, arrest and prosecution records and information from nearly 50 social service agencies. 
In the course of this review, several errors were discovered in specific details. One, an erroneous reference to the release date of "Scary Movie 2," was corrected in the magazine last Sunday. 
On the question whether women imported through Cottonwood Canyon, Calif., could have been wearing high heels, the original source, when pressed, acknowledged that his information was hearsay. The article should not have specified what the women were wearing, and the anecdote should have been related in the past tense, since the trafficking ring was broken up in 2001. 
The woman in her 20's known to her traffickers as Andrea recalled an incorrect name for the hotel to which she was taken in Juarez, Mexico. The Radisson Casa Grande had not yet opened when she escaped from her captors. 
After the article was published, the writer made an impromptu comment in a radio interview, noting that Andrea has multiple-personality disorder. The magazine editors did not learn of her illness before publication. Andrea's account of her years in slavery remained consistent over two and a half years of psychotherapy. Her therapist says that her illness has no effect on the accuracy of her memory. Her hours-long interview with the author, recorded on tape, is lucid and consistent. 
An independent expert consulted by the magazine, Dr. Leonard Shengold, who has written books and papers about child abuse and the reliability and unreliability of memory, affirms that a diagnosis of multiple-personality disorder is not inconsistent with accurate memories of childhood abuse. Because multiple-personality disorder has been associated with false memory, however, the diagnosis should have been cited in the article.
The magazine's cover showed a 19-year-old nicknamed Montserrat, who escaped from a trafficker four years ago. An insignia on her school uniform had been retouched out of the picture to shield her whereabouts. The change violated The Times's policy against altering photographs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Montserrat, who escaped a sex-trafficking ring, at her new home in Mexico.; Dozens of stash houses in Mexican resort towns, like this one in Acapulco, shelter American pedophile rings.; Calle Santo Tomas in La Merced, Mexico, where many women are forced into prostitution, often lured with the promise of a better life. Near a brothel, they are paraded before crowds of men.; Mexican parents hold a photo of their daughter, who called years after she disappeared to say that she was being forced to work as a prostitute in Queens.; The reeds in the San Luis Rey riverbed, near Vista, Calif., where Mexican girls and women are taken to have sex with clients in makeshift caves not far from a suburban community. (Photographs by Kimberlee Acquaro for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CHILDREN (78%); CONVENIENCE STORES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); WOMEN (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); RETAILERS (70%); SEX TRAFFICKING (69%); SLAVERY (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (63%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (62%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (61%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (61%); CITIES (60%); ANTIBIOTICS (60%) Prostitution; Kidnapping; Illegal Aliens; Prostitution

PERSON: Peter Landesman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (72%) Europe; Latin America; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



606 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 1-25-04: THE ETHICIST; 
Who Benefits?

BYLINE:  By Randy Cohen

 BODY:
I am a single bisexual woman who works for a university with excellent spousal benefits. My gay male roommate has no health insurance. We have discussed getting married so he can receive benefits through me. I like the idea of subverting marriage, an institution that generally won't sanction the same-sex relationships my roommate and I have had. But is this tantamount to stealing from my employer? Is it ethical to marry for strictly economic reasons? L.S., Queens 
 People have married for many reasons -- to gain a fortune, accumulate land, forge an international alliance, secure a dynasty, raise children -- and even on account of affection, a marital motive that became widespread rather late in human history with the rise of bourgeois society. (See Jane Austen or later, 19th-century novelists.) Marrying to obtain health insurance does not seem, historically at least, the most ignoble reason, particularly where same-sex folks are forbidden to marry for love. Recently, at least in Western Europe, more and more people have found none of these aims sufficient and have chosen to forgo marriage (but not family life) altogether. 
 We live in a country where more than 40 million people lack health insurance and thus reliable access to medical care. The solution to this problem is political reform, and so I hope you are working for that (if only by supporting candidates for public office who are). However, while awaiting utopia, your roommate might want to do something about that hacking cough (or whatever). If marriage is his best means to decent medical care, I see no ethical objections to you two kids' tying the knot. Nor would you be deceiving the university if you did. 
It requires only marriage, not love. If it demanded the latter, many a married couple would lose their insurance. (And their privacy, when it came to the impossible task of verification.)
That said, what ethics doesn't proscribe, practicality might. Should you and your groom-to-maybe-be ever wish to part -- perhaps one of you falls in love in Massachusetts -- divorcing could be more complicated and expensive than getting married.
I am a state-certified mediator and arbitrator. Recently I mediated a serious dispute to the satisfaction of both parties. One of them, an American-born Japanese businessman, offered to send me a special fish, prepared for eating, as a token of appreciation. I humbly refused the gift as a violation of my code of ethics. He was hurt by my rejection of his Japanese custom, meant only to express appreciation. Was I wrong? Abraham Best, Lauderhill, Fla.
You were right. Acceptable business practices vary from culture to culture, and you could argue that when in Tokyo do as the Tokyovians (Tokyoites? Tokyoons?) do. However, you are not in Tokyo; you are in Florida and are bound by the mores of that state (insert presidential-election joke here) and the ethics appropriate to your profession. What's more, from the American perspective, that code is reasonable. Your case is already resolved and you cannot be corrupted by that fish gift, but it would be unwise to promote the idea that in future cases (perhaps even involving this man), a gift is expected in exchange for a satisfactory decision.
While your duty is clear, that Japanese businessman's hurt feelings are worthy of consideration. (Why does our concern with conflicts of interest trump the Japanese business ethics of gratitude and strengthened social ties?) And so you must assure him that your actions reflect local custom; they do not imply cultural superiority and certainly not a personal criticism.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); ASIAN AMERICANS (60%); WRITERS (53%) Bribery; Gifts; Homosexuality; Fringe Benefits; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Labor

PERSON: Randy Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (85%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (85%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



607 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 1-25-04; 
Dollars and Cineastes

BYLINE:  By A.O. Scott; A.O. Scott is a film critic for The New York Times.

 BODY:
The Sundance Film Festival, which wraps up tonight, offers a yearly opportunity to survey the state of independent film in America -- and also to punditize on the death of independent film in America, which may amount to the same thing. The subtitle of "Down and Dirty Pictures," a new book by the film historian Peter Biskind that was probably more avidly discussed on the streets of Park City this year than any of the movies in competition, is "Miramax, Sundance and the Rise of Independent Film." The story Biskind tells is a paradoxical one, in which every chapter in the rise of the elusive "independent spirit" is also an episode in its decline -- its corruption by money, celebrity worship and all the other elements of Hollywood business as usual. Such moments stretch back a decade or more, to Miramax's absorption by Disney, to the first time a distribution deal was made at Sundance, to the coronation of Quentin Tarantino as King of the Indies. 
 So have the institutions that pride themselves on offering intelligent, artistically uncompromised alternatives to the Hollywood mainstream -- Miramax and Sundance pre-eminent among them -- sold out their mandate? Have the men in charge of those institutions -- Harvey Weinstein and Robert Redford -- really killed independent cinema? 
 The answer ultimately may have less to do with chronology or personality than with semantics. Back in the twilight of the studio era, it was producers who were most often described as independent, a designation that conferred no special aesthetic or moral distinction on the movies they developed and sold to the studios. Later, in the 1980's, the adjective was transferred -- all too briefly, as it turned out -- to directors like Jim Jarmusch and Spike Lee, who managed, through pluck and perseverance, to make personal and challenging films on the margins of an industry dominated by a hunger for crude blockbusters. At present, the term refers primarily to distributors and secondarily to the style and scale of the movies they release. 
Of course, the distributors in question -- companies like Miramax, Fox Searchlight and Focus Features -- are owned by the major studios, which has forced scrupulous writers to distinguish between them and "true independents" like IFC, Lions Gate and Newmarket Films. To confuse matters further, a few recent movies displaying some of the traditional hallmarks of indie-ness -- Spike Jonze's "Adaptation," Wes Anderson's "Royal Tenenbaums," Christopher Guest's "Mighty Wind" -- have been distributed by majors, while Miramax itself, since the surprising Oscar-night triumph of the 1998 film "Shakespeare in Love," has increasingly devoted its resources to producing glossy, high-budget Oscar bait. 
But do the distinctions matter? Don't moviegoers care more about the quality of movies than about who distributes them? Biskind's book -- as a matter of presentation rather than of argument -- suggests that we may not. In "Easy Riders, Raging Bulls," his earlier study of the "New Hollywood" of the 1970's -- an era today's filmmakers routinely invoke as an Arcadian time of unbridled creativity -- the main characters were directors like Martin Scorsese, Francis Ford Coppola and Steven Spielberg. This time, though, few filmmakers -- Tarantino and Steven Soderbergh, mainly -- are featured players. The stars are Redford, Weinstein and assorted mini- or anti-Harveys like Scott Greenstein, Amir Malin and Bingham Ray. The book is thick with numbers -- budgets, grosses, uncollected shares of back-end revenue -- and footnotes unpacking the finer points of movie-industry financial jargon. 
This bias toward the bottom line reflects perhaps the strangest legacy of the indie-film boom, which is that a movement passionately committed to defending the integrity of cinema as an art form has helped to spawn a film culture obsessed, as never before, with the arcana of commerce. The classic indie legends of the late 80's and early 90's involved film-school graduates (or dropouts, or rejects) who maxed out their credit cards, borrowed equipment, conscripted their friends and launched their careers with scrappy, personal movies. This was more or less the story of "She's Gotta Have It," "Clerks," "El Mariachi," "Reservoir Dogs" and "The Brothers McMullen" -- films that, for better and for worse, encouraged the auteurist dreams of countless young people. The most memorable detail of any indie film's "making of" story (which was often more memorable than the movie itself) was invariably a sum of money -- a small one, measured in thousands rather than millions, which seemed at once to demystify and democratize the filmmaking process.
In the long run, though, these slacker-era Horatio Alger stories also helped to focus the attention of fans, as well as would-be players, on the mysterious and cut-throat economics of the film business. Thirty or 40 years ago, a sophisticated cineaste would spout the jargon of formalism; nowadays, especially on Internet film sites, you are more likely to hear speculations about production budgets, release patterns and box-office estimates than analysis of tracking shots, jump cuts or subliminal homages to Hitchcock and Welles. 
Worst of all, the public -- often led, I'm sorry to say, by movie critics -- finds itself seduced into judging the success and failure of films according to the criteria of industry bean-counters rather than according to artistic merit. What was the first-weekend gross? What was the per-screen average? How did it perform against expectations? Like the political discourse, the cultural conversation is increasingly dominated by horse-race reporting, which, entertaining though it can be, ultimately threatens the only force able to preserve the always precarious artistic quality of movies, music and all our other down-and-dirty and exalted pleasures: an independent audience. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Soderbergh, left, and Peter Gallagher, center, on the set of "Sex, Lies and Videotape," (Photograph from Miramax/The Everett Collection) Chart: "LET THEM COME TO YOU""The purpose of doing a film outside the system is so that they don't expletive with you," the attorney Linda Lichter continues. "And the movie you get is the movie that has your voice. Then, when the big people come calling, they do so because of who you are, what you can bring to them, not because they can control you. Rather than doing one for them and one for you, you can do one for you that both they and you want to make. The impact of the independents on the studio world is that all of a sudden, they want what we got. Of course, you have to see if you can do it on your own terms and not be eaten alive by the system. David O. Russell really did that with 'Three Kings.' Whether anybody can do it again, I don't know. " From "Down and Dirty Pictures: Miramax, Sundance and the Rise of Independent Film," by Peter Biskind.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); WRITERS (76%); FILM HISTORY (73%); HISTORY (71%); CORRUPTION (69%) Motion Pictures; Sundance Film Festival (Park City, Utah)

ORGANIZATION: Miramax 

PERSON: HARVEY WEINSTEIN (58%) A O Scott; Peter Biskind

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



608 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
Three Films, Three Genres, One Work

BYLINE:  By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
NOT just for Greek tragedies any more, the trilogy has become the all-but-obligatory format for major franchise films. Both "The Matrix" and "The Lord of the Rings" had grand finales last year, packing them in at multiplexes around the world.
 But trilogies have been turning up in the art houses, as well, in part because of the critical and commercial success of Krzysztof Kieslowski's "Three Colors" series of 1993 and 1994. Kieslowski, a Polish filmmaker then based in Paris, worked through three apparently unrelated tales, each named for a color of the French flag: "Blue," "White" and "Red." As the trilogy unfolded, it revealed a complex internal structure, based on the repetition of themes and the rhyming of images. 
 Kieslowski died before he could complete a planned second trilogy, based on the Catholic accounts of heaven, hell and purgatory, though the German director Tom Twyker made "Heaven" (2002) from the screenplay by Kieslowski and his frequent collaborator, Krzysztof Piesiewicz. Rebecca Miller's one-film trilogy, "Personal Velocity," also in 2002, packed parallel stories of three women's search for freedom into one feature. Lars von Trier's Danish film "Dogville," which will be released in America in March, is the first panel in a planned triptych on European visions of American life. Mr. von Trier says he will continue the series even though the star of "Dogville," Nicole Kidman, has dropped out of the next two. 
Beginning this week in New York (with a national release to follow) is Lucas Belvaux's series "The Trilogy" ("La Trilogie)," a great critical success in France when it was released in 2002. The film's three feature-length installments -- titled, in the order they will be shown in the United States, "On the Run," "An Amazing Couple" and "After Life" -- are all set in the mountain city of Grenoble, where the three female protagonists work in a high school. The women and their husbands, lovers and rivals, cross over from film to film, though each movie has its own story and, more particularly, its own genre.
"On the Run" (opening on Friday) is a political thriller, in which Mr. Belvaux (long a professional actor) plays a militant radical who escapes from prison and forces an old comrade, a schoolteacher played by Catherine Frot, to help him plan a new series of bombings. In "An Amazing Couple" (opening on Feb. 6), the tone shifts to something approaching screwball comedy for the tale of a Grenoble industrialist (Francois Morel) whose wife (Ornella Muti) mistakenly believes he is having an affair. For the final film, "After Life" (opening on Feb. 13), Mr. Belvaux shifts to a more intimate, naturalistic tone for a domestic drama about the tortured relationship of a corrupt police inspector (Gilbert Melki) and his morphine-addicted wife (Dominique Blanc) who is harboring the radical.
The stories take place simultaneously, with events seen from different perspectives in different films and major characters in one film becoming supporting players in another.
"It began with a theoretical question," Mr. Belvaux, speaking French, said during a recent visit to New York. "What is a secondary character? When I was making my first film, 'Parfois Trop d'Amour' in 1992, I thought I had three very sympathetic leading characters, but I realized that from the point of view of one of the secondary characters, they were really quite antipathetic. I thought then of making a series of films in which the characters would change their stature -- principals become secondary and supporting characters become principals. At the time, I was reading lots of Balzac, and in his novels you see the same thing: characters who are important in one story but who appear as background figures in another. It is all a question of point of view."
Where in the past many Hollywood trilogies -- Francis Ford Coppola's "Godfather Saga," for example, or the "Die Hard" movies -- seemed to become so after the fact, driven by commercial demands for sequels, the recent European trilogies have been imagined from the very beginning as single unified works (as were, of course, "The Matrix" and "The Lord of the Rings," and George Lucas has said that he planned the "Star Wars" series as three interlocking trilogies from the start). For Mr. Belvaux, the configuration made inherent sense; paraphrasing Aristotle on the principle of the golden mean, he says: "Two is too little and four is too much. And also, three gives a sense of unbalance, of irresolution, where an even number is too symmetrical, it suggests a conclusion."
Mr. Belvaux, a pleasant, rumpled 42-year-old, began writing "The Trilogy" shortly after he completed his second feature, "Pour Rire" ("For Laughs"), in 1996. "The three films advanced in parallel," he said. "Roughly, I worked about a week on the global project, defining the idea of the three principal couples who would pass through three different genres. I needed to find a way to cross the three stories without making it seem too forced, so I settled on the idea that if the three women were friends and all worked in the same place, necessarily the stories would intersect.
Mr. Belvaux began by writing the comedy, without worrying too much about how it would intersect with the other two films. When he wrote a sequence involving characters from a later film, he would cut and paste it into the appropriate script. "Which meant that Films 2 and 3 already had major scenes before I even started writing them," he said.
Because of economic pressures, Mr. Belvaux was forced to shoot all three films at once, often shifting gears -- and rhythms and colors and acting styles -- several times a day. "It was actually a lot of fun," he recalled. "Usually, what's most tiring when you're making a movie is all the waiting. But here, there was no waiting -- I had to keep the brain working all the time. For one shot, we would be in the comedy, with the camera mounted on a tripod, and for the next, we had to reshoot it for the thriller, with a hand-held camera. Then, of course, there were entire weeks when we worked on only one film."
Mr. Belvaux's trilogy, like those of the other European directors, is an attempt to escape the constraints of the standard 100-minutes-more-or-less running time of a feature film. As formally determined as his project may be, with its clever variations in perspective and perception, it is ultimately a naturalistic gesture, intended to liberate the hidden portions, the shadings and the undertones, of individuals who would be reduced to stereotypes in a more conventional representation. The police inspector, brilliantly played by Mr. Melki, evolves from a stock tough guy into a Dostoyevskian figure racked by guilt and doubt but driven by his sincere, helpless love for his afflicted wife.
Rather than prolonging an epic narration, Mr. Belvaux's trilogy folds back in on itself. It is not a linear trilogy, but a vertical one, a movie that burrows down and spreads out.
In fact, when the trilogy was released in France, the comedy, "An Amazing Couple," was the first to appear in theaters. In the United States, the first will be the thriller, "On the Run," because the American distributor, Magnolia Pictures, thought it was more likely to hook an audience. "In the end," Mr. Belvaux said, "the order doesn't make any difference. If you see them in the order comedy-thriller-melodrama, which is the order I imagined them in, you'll see the film the most under my control. If you see them in another order, you'll see a film that I couldn't control, with effects that I didn't intend. What's fun is that the spectators are free to see them any way they want. What I've found is that for each viewer, the ideal order was the order they happened to see them in."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article and a picture caption last Sunday about the three films by Lucas Belvaux known as "La Trilogie" misstated the American title of one film, "Apres la Vie." It is being released as "After the Life," not "After Life."

GRAPHIC: Photos: From Lucas Belvaux's "Trilogy": Catherine Frot in "On the Run," top, Francois Morel in "An Amazing Couple" and Gilbert Meki and Dominique Blanc in "After Life." (Photographs courtesy of Magnolia Pictures)(pg. 11); Ian McKellen as Gandalf in the final installment of "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy, "The Return of the King." (Photo by Pierre Vinet/New Line Productions)(pg. 24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FILM GENRES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); BOMBINGS (60%) Motion Pictures

PERSON: NICOLE KIDMAN (58%) Lucas Belvaux; Dave Kehr

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (57%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (56%); DENMARK (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



609 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey; 
Sluggish Office Market Is Waking Up, Brokers Say

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
FOR New Jersey's beleaguered commercial office market, developers and brokers see signs of hope in 2004. Many are pointing to what they call an unmistakable surge in the number of companies shopping for space and citing this as prelude to potentially healthy leasing activity within the next six months to a year.
 "The office market has definitely taken a turn for the better," said the managing partner of the Kushner Companies, Richard Stadtmauer. "Before, we had people just kicking the tires, brokers saying, 'A tenant may be interested, and maybe they'll come take a look.' Now, people are actually looking, asking for leases, and some of our current tenants are coming to us, looking to renew and expand." 
 Mr. Stadtmauer mentioned two deals that Kushner closed this month in Florham Park as illustration: Ryan Beck & Company, a financial advisory firm, signed a long-term lease for 48,802 square feet at 18 Columbia Turnpike, a building Kushner owns at Columbia Corporate Center, to expand and relocate headquarters from Livingston. Also, SKG Consulting, an executive search and recruiting firm, renewed its lease for the headquarters space it has occupied for 25 years at 30 Vreeland Avenue, expanding by 1,700 square feet to a total of 7,116 square feet. 
"These are small to medium-sized deals," Mr. Stadtmauer said, "but they are bread and butter to the market."
Meanwhile, the chief executive of the Mack-Cali Realty Corporation, Mitchell E. Hersh, announced a 10,406-square-foot lease at Harborside Financial Center Plaza 5 on the Jersey City waterfront and said it indicated momentum. The 10-year lease was signed with the insurance firm DeWitt, Stern, Imperatore Ltd. and brought the occupancy rate at the newly built Class A building to 61 percent.
Nevertheless, the overall vacancy rate for office space in northern and central New Jersey rose slightly in the fourth quarter of 2003, according to real estate service companies; the figures compiled by GVA Williams put the rate at 20.1 percent, up from the previous quarter's 19.5 percent. And asking rents decreased for the third straight quarter, dropping to $22.80 annually per square foot for overall space -- that is, both direct lease and sublease space in all classes of office buildings. 
Various year-end reports noted that more pressure to lower rents is being put on many landlords because a significant number of leases are expiring and space that was available for sublease is now going on the market directly. The percentage of direct-lease space available at the end of 2003 rose to 15.5, according to GVA. At the end of 2002, when sublease space glutted the market, there was only 12.5 percent of direct space available, it said. 
"WE are not dealing with a super market," Mr. Stadtmauer said. "We are not dealing with the kind of market we had four years ago before the bad cycle began. But we are dealing with a market where the shadow space, or sublet space, has been absorbed."
Emanuel Stern, president of Hartz Mountain Industries, which controls more than one million square feet of office space on the New Jersey waterfront, concurred, saying, "The erosion of the office market appears to be over." He said average asking rents are unlikely to sink lower, although effective rents might dip because of expiring leases.
Mr. Stern said that the "velocity" of deals for office space seemed to be picking up in New York City but that he did not necessarily see this yet in New Jersey -- adding that New York City always leads in trends. "Clearly, the overall economy is improving," he said. "Generally speaking, when companies start making money again, they like to add jobs and get more space."
At the end of 2003, Hartz -- which built and developed 90 percent of its 35-million-square-foot portfolio -- surprised some observers with its purchase of 15 Exchange Place, a 145,000-square-foot building in Jersey City that has carried some vacancy for the past three years. But, Mr. Stern said, "When the market returns in New Jersey, it will quickly absorb that and everything else that is available on the waterfront." 
Still, some real estate specialists are more wary about asserting that space will be snapped up. Advance Realty Group's regional managing director, Robert R. Martie, whose company has 160,000 square feet available at Gateway One in Newark and 200,000 square feet at its Park Place campus in Florham Park, said, "With the stocks of space available, we need more significant job growth than what has occurred to obtain what we would call market lift." Mr. Martie conceded that the "tenant pipeline" does seem to have opened up. He said about eight potential tenants, seeking 25,000 to 200,000 square feet of space, are currently "seriously looking" at Park Place.
In terms of job growth, New Jersey has actually fared better than most other states, posting a gain of 41,200 jobs in 2003, according to the state Labor Department. At the end of last year, the unemployment rate in the state was 5.5 percent -- the lowest in 12 months. And for 2004, many analysts are predicting strong economic growth.
Patrick Murphy, the executive managing partner in charge of New Jersey operations for CB Richard Ellis, said that these development have led him to be bullish and to think that "it's time to take advantage of where we are."
"Forty thousand new jobs -- that's eight million square feet!" Mr. Murphy exclaimed. He was using the broker's rule of thumb that companies typically seek about 200 square feet of office space per employee.
"I think New Jersey has gravitational pull for companies," he added, "They want to tap into our educated work force, and know they can provide workers with a nice suburban lifestyle without losing the ability to tap into the New York City lifestyle."
Mark Yeager, president of the Gale Company, another major developer, owner and broker of commercial space, said: "Over the last 90 days, there has been a very different feeling about the way things are going, more positive than any period in the last couple years.
"There have been some seven-day runs, some 30-day runs, when it seemed the commercial office market was picking up," Mr. Yeager said, "but it was never sustained. It always died out. It was burst, lull, burst, lull. After a while, people lost an overall sense of enthusiasm for the market. This has felt different -- as though there is potentially some traction in the market, some consistency in moving forward."
A few weeks into the New Year, Mr. Yeager said, he has been "very surprised, not just pleasantly surprised" at the burgeoning activity -- including inquiries about space, showings of space, requests for proposals and signed leases.
"We have at least two, and potentially three, very noteworthy deals for spaces over 150,000 square feet in the works," he said. "In addition, we are working on about 400,000 square feet total of the other stuff -- 5,000 square feet to 50,000 square feet range -- and there is good diversification in the types of clients and space."
Last month, for example, Mr. Yeager said, one of the numerous law firms housed at Gale's One Newark Center renewed and expanded its lease, taking 36,000 square feet. This month, One Call Medical, an existing tenant at 20 Waterview Boulevard in Parsippany, renewed and expanded its lease, taking 41,000 square feet. 
Mr. Yeager said he was highly encouraged by an expansion in the legal and accounting sectors in New Jersey. "The entire field of public accounting is having to reinvent itself, because of the new federal legislation requiring greater accountability by corporations and better protection of shareholder interest," he said, "and there is going to be tremendous expansion, not just among the Big Four accounting firms -- PricewaterhouseCoopers, Ernst & Young, Deloitte & Touche, and KPMG -- but for midtier firms as well. We're just now beginning to see the impact."
CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD'S senior managing director, Christopher Kinum, said his company's analysts reported that law, accounting and consulting firms led New Jersey's office leasing activity last year -- and he expected that trend to continue.
Mr. Kinum asserted, however, that the most significant step taken to improve the economy, and thus the commercial office market, was state government's commitment last year to aggressively recruit high-technology companies. "Our political leaders have enhanced New Jersey's Business Economic Incentive Program," he noted. "They have proposed the investment of pension funds in the technology sector, and they plan to create business zones that will encourage R.&D. partnerships between private business and educational institutions."
This should generate slow but steadily increasing demand for office and laboratory and research and development space, Mr. Kinum said.
The Cushman executive also pointed to the continuing positive signs generated by the hot market for investment sales of office space, linked to still record-low interest rates, and a new trend he discerns of companies seeking to buy their own space, rather than lease, before rates rise.
Mr. Kinum noted the fledgling nature of the prevailing optimism about the office market and said, "We don't need another major setback, such as a major chain going into Chapter 11." The fact is you never know if there is a left cross waiting for you out there."
"But the market is feeling better," he summed up. "Maybe not feeling good, but feeling better."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "An Expanse of Available Space"The overall vacancy rate for office space in northern and central New Jersey was slightly above 20 percent at the end of 2003. Of the available space, a higher percentage is on the market directly rather than being offered for subleasing. Direct Space and Sublease SpaceBy quarter Graph tracks direct space and sublease space, by quarter, from 2000 to 2003. Vacancy rateBy quarter Graph tracks vacancy rate, by quarter, from 2000 to 2003. (Source by GVA Williams)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); LEASING INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (72%) 

COMPANY: MACK-CALI REALTY CORP (66%)

TICKER: CLI (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%)

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



610 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Coloring America Hopeful 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
CHRISTOPHER WEBB was standing in the middle of a ring of model cars, about to pose for a photograph, when he noticed a troubling presence: a green one.
 "I definitely don't want to be near green," he declared, his British accent flaring. Coming from a man poised to become one of North America's leading arbiters of color, this was a notable pronouncement. Not only is green out, apparently, but it has always been a somewhat star-crossed hue. 
 "You have to be aware of the historical sensitivities to color," Mr. Webb explained. In China, "it's a color worn by men when they've split from their wives," he said. "So it's not a highly popular color." 
It is? It's not?
Mr. Webb, 28, is not a household name, but soon it will be hard to miss his work. He is the manager of color trends in North America for General Motors, the world's largest automaker, which means he has the lead role in picking the exterior colors for Chevrolets, Pontiacs, Cadillacs, GMC's, Buicks, Saturns and Hummers, beginning with the 2005 models, which go on sale this summer. 
Mr. Webb, a former fashion student who has been at G.M. only since 2001, says his first order of business is to return color to cars. 
The coming trends? More metallic colors, silver blended with bolder shades like blue or orange, in contrast to the past decade of minimalist silver, gray, white and black. There will also be more splashes of primary colors. 
"For so long we were in the neutral values," said Mr. Webb, who attributes this partly to anxiety about the approach of the millennium. "The black, white, silver and beiges were very important. The whole neutral phase of silver has been around almost a decade. We're only moving out of it now. You'll see shocks of color happening."
This parallels trends across the design world, from housewares to fashion, which has been adding more color each season, in a revolt against basic black. For spring 2004, fashion is showing more corals and oranges.
"Kitchen appliances were always just aluminum, just metal, just white," Mr. Webb said, referring to the past decade. "Now you're seeing the whole range of kitchenware -- the fridges in baby blue, baby pink." 
Cars across the industry have just begun a transition period between neutral and bolder colors, Mr. Webb said. It is a moment of silvery blends named Cappuccino Frost and Light Bronzemist Metallic.
Some makes are farther ahead on the color wheel, like Hummer, which counts a high-wattage banana-yellow as one of its most popular colors. Karl Lagerfeld just bought a Hummer and had it painted a deep burgundy, Mr. Webb said.
Because the economy is stirring and terror fears are beginning to recede, "people are more likely to explore products and try different things, be more expressive," he said. 
Dr. G. Clotaire Rapaille, the founder of Archetype Discoveries Worldwide, a consumer research firm in Boca Raton, Fla., that advises the Big Three automakers, said: "Colors represent the mood of the time. After 9/11, the mood was not very happy and more sober, so we had more black and white and gray. It was not proper to be too colorful."
Now, he added, "People are feeling better and they want color."
Will Americans, who lately bought tame-toned S.U.V.'s by the millions, really go for color, the way they did in earlier eras, falling in love with brassy red Buick Skylarks in the 1950's and minty blue Corvettes in the 60's? 
The auto industry, because of its manufacturing timetable, is often "one trend late," Dr. Rapaille noted. The risk, he said, is that "by the time they come with colors, we might have had another terrorist attack and people might not want colors."
Mr. Webb's studio is in the General Motors Technical Center, a sprawling research and design complex that is a testament to 1950's Modernism, designed by Eero Saarinen and distinguished principally by a sculptured stainless-steel water tower. The center has a frozen-in-time quality to it; its distinctive design represents the last era in which G.M. was actually a design leader.
But the company would like to be a leader again. It has hired Robert A. Lutz, the former Chrysler president, as vice chairman for product development. He has given G.M.'s designers power that had been ceded to the company's bean counters.
Inside Mr. Webb's brightly lighted studio, a closely guarded area, are posters and displays outlining color trends, car seats that look woven from pinstripe suits, and miniature cars that serve as color samples. Mr. Webb works in a cubicle overflowing with shots of models torn from magazines, Guess ads, pictures from a Stella McCartney fashion show, a color sample from the rival automaker Toyota and a bamboo plant. ("It's the plant of the moment," he explained.)
So what will we see in the 2005's?
"More color coming into silver, and more color coming generally," he said. "You'll start to see yellows and oranges happening now -- the oranges, the reds, the blues, all these different solid colors."
And there will be new color technologies, like a teal that seems to shift from green to blue. It will appear this year on Pontiacs, Buicks and the Chevrolet SSR, which is an unusual cross between a pickup truck and a roadster that starts around $42,000. 
"If you go around the car, it goes from quite an obvious green to an obvious blue," Mr. Webb said. "The color actually moves. It's different from anything else on the road right now, and you obviously always like to have the new thing."
Like many designers, Mr. Webb eschews color in his own closet. "The majority of my wardrobe is blue or black," he said. 
But it was clothing that got Mr. Webb into the auto industry. As a fashion student at the University of Brighton in England, he made two pairs of trousers for a show. Because he was partly sponsored by a British auto design company, he used materials often used in car interiors, specifically carbon and glass fiber, and inlaid the pants with silk.
Helen Emsley, who oversees the exterior and interior aesthetics of G.M.'s cars and trucks, was scouting for talent at the show and after looking at Mr. Webb's clothing designs asked if he would like to work for G.M. in America.
"When he came here, he knew nothing about paint," said Ms. Emsley, who is also British. But she liked his instincts.
"I don't just want car designers," Ms. Emsley said. "I want people from different fields of design. He had a different way of looking at things, and an enthusiasm and personality."
Car designers want colors that look "like liquid metal, like mercury," Mr. Webb said. He developed a luminous, metallic eggplant for the Cadillac Sixteen, a show car G.M. created for the North American International Auto Show in Detroit last year that looked like a cross between a Batmobile and a Bentley. The Sixteen had 27 coats of paint; mass-produced cars have two or three coats, and often look coarser. 
"In a production environment, colors can go a little bit darker or a little bit dirtier," Mr. Webb said. "It's just the rules of requiring paint to be lasting on an automotive product."
A car's colors are designed two to three years before the car itself appears on the road, in contrast to fashion, where colors are decided a few months before each season.
Clare Johnston, head of textiles at the Royal College of Art in London, said the basic approach in color forecasting runs across industries. Ms. Johnston was Mr. Webb's boss in the late 1990's, when he was an intern at Marks & Spencer, the British clothing retailer; she said he had both an instinct for trends and the ability to communicate with executives.
"One of the things about designers is people assume we're all fashion lovies and flippant," Ms. Johnston said. "But the training we have to go through means that people have been intellectually strongly challenged."
"You look at eras of colors and cycles of color and what's likely to come back because we haven't had it for a while," she said. "There's a lot of instinct, using what I'd call your antennae, what you feel is either lacking or suddenly rather exciting. Designers can see around the corner that other people can't see around."

GRAPHIC: Photos: TONE UP -- Christopher Webb of G.M. is pitching brights as an antidote to a neutral decade. (Photo by Jeffrey Sauger for The New York Times)(pg. 1); FUTURISTIC -- The Cadillac Sixteen in new eggplant. (Photo by Associated Press); BRIGHT -- A 50's icon: the colorful Corvette.; THE 90'S S.U.V. -- In any color as long as its neutral. (Photo by Peter Yates for The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%); FASHION DESIGN (70%) Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: Christopher Webb; Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



611 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: The State of the Unions; 
Should This Marriage Be Saved?

BYLINE:  By Laura Kipnis; Laura Kipnis, a professor of media studies at Northwestern, is the author of "Against Love: A Polemic."

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Marriage: it's the new disease of the week. Everyone is terribly worried about its condition, though no one can say what's really ailing the patient. Others are simply in denial, like President Bush, who insisted that heterosexual marriage was "one of the most fundamental, enduring institutions of our civilization" in his State of the Union address last week. Yet this statement came shortly after his own administration floated a proposal for a $1.5 billion miracle cure: an initiative to promote "healthy" marriage, particularly among low-income couples. And what of all the millionaires in failing marriages or fleeing commitment? Where are the initiatives devoted to rehabilitating this afflicted group? Sorry, they're on their own in the romance department. In this administration, the economic benefits filter upward, the marital meddling filters down.
 The administration may think that low-income Americans need to be taught better communication and listening skills, but actually they're communicating just fine. Conservatives just don't like the message being communicated, which is this: We don't want to get married. 
 More and more people -- heterosexuals, that is -- don't want to get or stay married these days, no matter their income level. Yes, cohabitation is particularly prevalent in less economically stable groups, including the women counted as unmarried mothers. But only 56 percent of all adults are married, compared with 75 percent 30 years ago. The proportion of traditional married-couple-with-children American households has dropped to 26 percent of all households, from 45 percent in the early 1970's. The demographics say Americans are voting no on marriage. 
The fact is that marriage is a social institution in transition, whether conservatives like it or not. This is not simply a matter of individual malfeasance; in fact, it may not be individual at all. The rise of the new economy has gutted all sorts of traditional values and ties, including traditions like the family wage, job security and economic safety nets. Women have been propelled into the work force in huge numbers, and not necessarily for personal fulfillment: with middle-class wages stagnant from the early 70's to the mid-90's, it now takes (at least) two incomes to support the traditional household.
But as the political theorist Francis Fukuyama has pointed out, the changing nature of capitalism since the 1960's also required a different kind of work force; it was postindustrialism, perhaps even more than feminism, that transformed gender roles, contributing to what he calls the "great disruption" of the present. The increasing economic self-sufficiency of women has certainly been a factor in declining marriage rates: there's nothing like a checking account to decrease someone's willingness to be pushed into marriage or stay in a bad one. And interestingly, welfare reform has played the same role for lower-income groups: studies have shown a steep decline in marriages among women in welfare-to-work programs, for many of the same reasons. 
So how about a little more honesty and fewer platitudes on the marriage question. Sure, most people would like a lifetime soulmate, but then there's that widely quoted 50 percent divorce rate to consider. If more people are resisting marriage, or fleeing the ones they're in, or inventing new permutations like cohabitation and serial monogamy, here's one reason: for a significant percentage of the population, marriage just doesn't turn out to be as gratifying as it promises.
In other words, the institution itself isn't living up to its vows. A 1999 Rutgers University study reported that a mere 38 percent of Americans who were on their first marriages described themselves as actually happy in that state. This is rather shocking: so many households submerged in low-level misery or emotional stagnation, pledged to lives of discontent. But perhaps there's also a degree of social utility in promoting long-term unhappiness to a citizenry. After all, those accustomed to expecting less from life are also less accustomed to making social demands -- and are thus primed to swallow indignities like trickle-up economics along with their daily antidepressants. 
As for those better communication skills the Bush administration wants to teach low-income groups, particularly regarding "difficult issues" like money: that could backfire. If the lower and middle classes did start communicating better about money, that could include communicating to their elected representatives that they're fed up with condescension and election-year pandering for conservative votes while central issues in their lives like jobs, pay and working conditions are studiously ignored. 
But you can also see why conservatives might be getting nervous about the marriage issue. According to the historian Nancy Cott, marriage has long provided a metaphor for citizenship. Both are vow-making enterprises; both involve a degree of romance. Households are like small governments, and in this metaphor, divorce is a form of revolution -- at least an overthrow. (Recall that our nation was founded on a rather stormy collective divorce itself, the one from England.) Come November, how many of the disaffected might start wondering if they'd be better off with a different partner? How many will find themselves murmuring those difficult, sometimes necessary (and occasionally liberating) words: "I want a divorce"?
We're a society whose social institutions are in flux, and the interplay among economic transitions, shifting gender roles and changing emotional expectations are impossible to quantify until the dust settles. If the Bush administration really wants to improve the lives of low-income people, here's some simple advice: Rather than meddle in their love lives, raise their incomes. Start by throwing that $1.5 billion into the pot. Once low-income groups are making middle-class wages, their marital ambivalences will be their own business, just like millionaires. Or members of Congress. Or all the rest of us.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Serge Bloch) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (79%); COHABITATION (79%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (79%); NEW ISSUES (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); CHILDREN (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (65%) Marriages; Marriages

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Laura Kipnis

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



612 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: DOWNTOWN BROOKLYN; 
To Some, the Nets Are a Slam Dunk, to Others a Technical Foul

BYLINE:  By DENNY LEE

 BODY:
BROOKLYNITES who would be displaced by a new arena for the Nets are howling about the proposal, while many people who live elsewhere in the borough are big boosters of the idea. But among merchants and residents who are in between -- living outside the area where the arena would be built but in the close vicinity -- there is no such clear consensus. 
 Billy Bob, a manager of Jimmy Jazz, a clothing store on nearby Fulton Street, is happy about the idea, which, if it leaps numerous regulatory and other hurdles, will bring a 19,000-seat arena and other improvements to Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues in Downtown Brooklyn. Mr. Bob expects brisk sales for basketball paraphernalia emblazoned with the borough's name. "This will be great for business," he said. "It will bring more people in." 
 Ludlow Beckett, however, who owns a home furnishings store on Greene Avenue, is not convinced that basketball fans will patronize his shop. "They will be going to a Red Lobster, not to small, unique stores," said Mr. Beckett, president of the Fulton Area Business Association, which represents 60 merchants. "This won't bring foot traffic into our shops." 
For some Brooklynites, the prospect of Manhattan-style vehicular traffic is particularly unsettling. "Whenever there is a game, Atlantic and Flatbush Avenues will become parking lots," said Councilwoman Letitia James, who represents much of the area, including Prospect Heights. "People moved outside of Manhattan to get away from the traffic and noise." 
Clarence Nathan, co-owner of Premium Goods, a sneaker store on Fulton Street, says he is unsure what the arena's impact will be, but he tends to pessimism as both a businessman and a resident. "I live around here, and the traffic will be really bad," he said. "There will be no parking. I don't think it will increase business. They're coming here for the game, and then they'll leave. But who knows? Maybe we'll get more people."
Other merchants, however, are even more optimistic than Mr. Bob, the owner of Jimmy Jazz. Bob Killen, owner of La Bagel Delight on Seventh Avenue in Park Slope, sees the arena as a great economic boon for the borough. "It's going to create a lot of jobs," he said. "It will be great for business. We would like to open a store right there."
In some ways, reaction to the plan seems to vary according to how far someone lives from the site. Patti Hagan, who lives two blocks away, worries that the proposal will undo her eclectic, reviving neighborhood. "This great urban mix will be crushed," said Ms. Hagan, a member of the Prospect Heights Action Coalition. 
Bernard Graham, who lives about 20 blocks away in Park Slope, has a rosier outlook. 
"It's good for Brooklyn, it's good for Brooklyn's economy, and it's good for Brooklyn's self-esteem," said Mr. Graham, president of the Park Slope Civic Council, which represents 800 residents. "A lot of small cities identify with their professional sports teams, and Brooklyn is no different from a small city."
One group of residents seems to fully support the stadium: Nets fans. "Even at my age, I still get that feeling of being in the N.B.A. when I make a layup," said Darrell Canada, a 45-year-old construction worker who lives at the Raymond V. Ingersoll Houses. "Growing up in Brooklyn, I know that that court gives kids hope." 
Mr. Canada added : "We're talking about bringing opportunities to an impoverished community. They're talking about losing a few parking spots." DENNY LEE

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new arena would be only a few blocks from this stretch of Sixth Avenue, near Prospect Place. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); BASKETBALL (91%); RETAILERS (90%); SHOE STORES (72%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (71%); SPORTS FANS (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); JOB CREATION (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (56%) Basketball; Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); UTAH JAZZ (57%) New Jersey Nets 

PERSON: Denny Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Brooklyn (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



613 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
As Gold Surges, Many Mining Stocks Gain Favor

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON

DATELINE: Toronto 

 BODY:
AFTER more than a decade in the wilderness, the companies that dig rocks out of the ground are capturing investors' imagination. 
 The newfound glamour of the mining sector extends beyond the price of gold, which has gained much attention during its 17 percent climb since last January. Nickel recently traded at a 15-year high, while copper surged by almost 40 percent last year, rising above $1 a pound in December for the first time since the fall of 1997. Aluminum, coal, lead, platinum and even silver, which is up 40 percent since mid-2003, are among other metals and minerals that have posted sizable price gains. 
 "We think there are some huge changes going on in the commodities market that are sustainable for a long period," said Tom McKissick, who manages the TCW Galileo Large Cap Value fund at the Trust Company of the West in Los Angeles. The fund's holdings include international metals giants like Rio Tinto, Alcoa and Barrick Gold. 
Mr. McKissick notes that the basic-materials component of the S.&P. 500-stock index has climbed from a low of 1 percent of the index's total value in the fall of 2000 to 3.3 percent now. That share, however, is still well below the peak of 12.2 percent, in 1981, so Mr. McKissick says he is confident that commodity-related stocks will continue climbing for some time.
Christopher Hsu, an analyst at Aristeia Capital, a hedge fund in New York, said that "it's not a bad idea to be overweight" in mining stocks. Aristeia recently increased its exposure to the sector, especially to copper and gold, represented by companies like Freeport-McMoRan of New Orleans, which operates a big mine in Indonesia.
The stock market boom of the 1990's largely bypassed the mining sector. Despite buoyant consumption, metal prices were held back by a tendency among mining companies to focus more on output than profits. Their response to rising prices was typically to expand mines and open new ones rather than to exercise discipline and enjoy a higher return on capital. As a result, upturns in metal markets tended to be short-lived.
Even as the technology boom was moving into high gear in 1997, the mood in mining soured further because of the scandal involving Bre-X Minerals, a small Canadian company. Its report of a potentially huge Indonesian gold find had sent its shares soaring, but they collapsed as the site was found to contain nothing worth mining. In the wake of that scandal, funds dried up for the junior exploration companies, mostly based in Canada and Australia, that grease the wheels of the industry through new discoveries, mergers and takeovers. 
But much has changed over the last year or two. "The market is moving way faster than the analysts or the corporate development departments of major mining companies," said Donald Lindsay, head of global mining at CIBC World Markets in Toronto. Mr. Lindsay's unit participated in 55 equity financings worth 4.02 billion Canadian dollars ($3.11 billion) last year, up from 34 deals worth 2.55 billion Canadian dollars in 2002 and just three financings, totaling less than 200 million Canadian dollars, in 2001. 
Despite exceptions, like Newmont Mining and Freeport-McMoRan, which are based in the United States, the global mining industry is generally dominated by British, Canadian and Australian companies. Several of the biggest foreign metal producers, like BHP Billiton, Inco and Alcan, are listed in New York. Rio Tinto's stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange as American depository receipts. Many small exploration companies are listed on the Toronto exchange, although the American Stock Exchange recently secured the listings of several small and midsize gold producers.
A spate of mergers and takeovers has increased the market share of some of the biggest players, like BHP Billiton, Phelps Dodge and Newmont Mining, while spawning a new group of midsize companies. 
Among the newcomers, Wheaton River Minerals, a gold producer based in Vancouver, British Columbia, made four acquisitions and raised 366 million Canadian dollars in three equity offerings in 2003. The company has operations in Mexico, Argentina and Australia and is listed on the Amex and in Toronto. Its share price has risen 168 percent in the last year, and is now at $2.71.
Investors who have broadened their exposure to metals cite two main attractions: the weakening American dollar and fast-growing metal consumption in China. 
Nathan Leight, a principal partner at Terrapin Partners, a portfolio management firm in New York, said his strategy was shaped by the likely impact of a rising federal budget deficit on the dollar. "I wouldn't be surprised if we saw the dollar swing as low as 1.40 euros," Mr. Leight said. (A euro bought 1.26 dollars on Friday.) 
Terrapin increased its holdings of gold bullion and stocks like Newmont Mining last summer. It has also invested in Australian inflation-protected bonds and short-term New Zealand certificates of deposit as a way of gaining exposure to commodity-based economies. Not only have those two countries' currencies appreciated markedly against the American dollar, but the yield on New Zealand C.D.'s with maturities of a month to a year has consistently been above 5 percent, Mr. Leight said.
The currencies of Canada and South Africa, two other mining industry bastions, have also appreciated sharply against the American dollar. 
On the demand side, China's surging economy has done wonders for metalconsumption. According to Brook Hunt, a British consulting firm, sales of automobiles and air-conditioners in China surged by 36 percent in the first nine months of 2003 alone. Sales of household refrigerators were up 28 percent, and power generation equipment by 65 percent. 
As a result, Brook Hunt estimates that China's copper consumption ballooned by 24 percent last year, after a gain of 8 percent in 2002. Richard Wilson, the firm's managing director, said in a recent presentation that while a global shortage this year might be tempered by the release of copper from a large Chilean producer's stockpile, 2005 was likely to be "an exceptionally good year for copper prices as supply struggles to keep pace with growth in demand."
BESIDES these cyclical factors, some investors say, the mind-set has changed among producers of metal and many other commodities. "You've seen an increase in capital discipline," said Mr. McKissick, the fund manager. "The managements now understand that you can't continue to develop resources when you're generating a return on capital of only 5 percent. This is a major departure from where the world was for the past 10 to 15 years." 
As evidence of this transformation, Michael Bradshaw, a senior analyst at Pioneer Investment Management in Boston, cited the decision by Codelco, the big Chilean copper producer, to build a large stockpile in recent years, rather than risk pushing down prices by selling the metal. Inco, the Canadian nickel producer, suspended construction at a big project in New Caledonia in December 2002 after the projected cost jumped by as much as 40 percent.
"You've had a more rational market," said Mr. Bradshaw, who takes the view that this process has been hastened by the recent consolidation, especially among copper miners. Pioneer funds are sizable holders of Phelps Dodge and Rio Tinto stock. 
But how long will such discipline last if demand and prices keep rising, and money for more exploration keeps flowing? Skeptics point to the aluminum market where, despite mergers and acquisitions, a host of new smelter projects kept prices sliding from 1995 until mid-2003. The spot aluminum price on the London Metal Exchange rose by a relatively modest 18 percent last year. 
According to the contrarian argument, the current shortage of nickel stems less from producer discipline than from the disappointing results of a new extraction process, known as high-pressure acid leaching. Several projects in western Australia began using this technology in the late 1990's, but output has been much lower and costs much higher than expected.
Gerald Harper, a consultant in Toronto who tracks mine financings, said that while mining companies raised about the same amount of money last year as in 2002, "the use of proceeds has changed dramatically," from paying down debt to funding exploration and new projects. 
"There are grounds for a little caution," Stephen Briggs, a metals economist at Societe Generale in London, wrote in a recent report. Though Mr. Briggs expects demand for all major metals to exceed supply this year, he says that "more of the many voluntary cutbacks will almost certainly be rescinded in response to better market conditions." 
He also sounded a note of caution about China, saying that growing Chinese exports of products like lead-acid batteries to North America and other parts of Asia are often displacing goods made elsewhere, rather than expanding overall demand for metals..
Mr. Lindsay at CIBC said that investment in the mining sector was moving into a "quasi speculative" phase. "We're in a very exciting period," he said. "I think it could last a little longer, but I have no illusions that it's going to last for 10 years."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A processing plant sorts iron ore at a mine in Western Australia operated by Rio Tinto, which has units in Britain and Australia. (Photo by Bloomberg News); Digging at a copper mine in Chile run by Codelco, the state-owned mining company. Codelco has built a stockpile of copper, fearing that selling it would depress prices. (Photo by Codelco via Bloomberg News) Graph: "Earthly Investments"Metal commodities prices have soared over the last year. Graph tracks the London Metal Exchange index since Jan. 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); COAL MINING (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); COPPER MINING (89%); CLIMBING (78%); BONDS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); COAL MARKETS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); MERGERS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); SCANDALS (60%) Metals and Minerals; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stocks and Bonds; Gold; Mines and Mining

COMPANY: TRUST CO OF THE WEST (69%); RIO TINTO GROUP (58%); ALCOA INC (56%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (53%); BRE-X MINERALS LTD (51%)

TICKER: RIOS (BRU) (58%); RIO (NYSE) (58%); RIO (LSE) (58%); RIO (ASX) (58%); AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%); FCX (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (69%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (58%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (58%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (58%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (53%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (53%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (53%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (53%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (53%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (53%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (53%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (53%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (59%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (51%) WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); ONTARIO, CANADA (66%) AUSTRALIA (93%); CANADA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); CHILE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (59%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



614 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Time to Slaythe Inequality Myth? Not So Fast

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
IF there is one thing that most people think they know about incomes in the United States over the last few decades, it is probably that salaries have grown more unequal. The rich have gotten richer faster than everyone else has. 
 In recent weeks, a new book has challenged this conventional wisdom, calling it a statistical mirage, and its striking claim has begun to receive national attention. Among native-born Americans, lower- and middle-income families have actually received proportionately bigger raises than the wealthy, according to "The Progress Paradox" (Random House), written by Gregg Easterbrook, a Washington journalist. Only a great influx of immigrants - many of them poor, but richer than they were in their home countries - has made inequality appear to widen in the statistics, Mr. Easterbrook says. 
 "Factor out immigration," he writes, "and the rise in American inequality disappears."
The idea has echoed from the book into the pages of The Washington Post, The Chicago Sun-Times, The San Diego Union-Tribune, The Times of London and BusinessWeek magazine, among other publications. It seems like one of those facts that could rewrite conventional wisdom about the American economy. 
It happens, however, not to be true.
The millions of immigrants who have entered the country in recent decades have indeed made inequality look larger than it otherwise would. But even among households headed by native-born Americans, the rich have done far better than others over the past 20 years - as well as over the past 30, 40 or 50 years, according to government statistics and the economists who study them.
The reasons will sound familiar. The long bull market of the 1980's and 90's helped mainly the well off, as has the rising value of a college degree in an increasingly complicated economy. At the middle and bottom of the income distribution, meanwhile, the overseas exodus of factory jobs, the stagnation of the minimum wage, the shrinking power of labor unions, the automation of the workplace and - yes - the immigration boom have all helped keep a lid on raises. 
"The fact of the matter is, income trends have favored people at the top of the income distribution, and that's true of native-borns, too," said Gary Burtless, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, whose research is cited in Mr. Easterbrook's book. "There is no data source that disagrees with that simple statement. In fact, the better the data, the more that the skew appears."
Mr. Easterbrook, a senior editor at The New Republic who is a visiting fellow at Brookings, acknowledged last week that he had gone too far in the book. His discussion of inequality occupies a very small part of "The Progress Paradox," he said, and he was mainly arguing that immigration played a role in the rise in inequality. "Even if there were not that increase in immigration, there would certainly be a rise in inequality," he said in an interview. "I did a poor job of writing that page." 
The book's central argument is that Americans do not realize quite how good they have it. Diseases that once ended thousands of lives are now just a nuisance, and life expectancy has soared. Home heating and air-conditioning are almost ubiquitous. The prices of air travel and telephone calls have plummeted, allowing average people to move easily around the country and to talk to the other side of the world. In the typical household, all the children have rooms of their own. 
"All told, except for the clamor and speed of society, and for trends in popular music," writes Mr. Easterbrook, "your great-great-grandparents might say the contemporary United States is the realization of utopia."
The rise in income at all steps on the economic ladder is crucial to the story. Even in the bottom half of the distribution, the average native-born family makes about 20 percent more than it did in 1970, after adjusting for inflation, according to an analysis of census data by Andrew A. Beveridge and Susan Weber, both of Queens College. 
But as real as this increase is, it hides an important part of the story, which in turn explains why the inequality question and Mr. Easterbrook's exaggeration matter. 
Less than half of the rise in pay among lower-income households comes from actual wage increases. Most of the rise is a result of families putting in more hours on the job as many women have joined the work force. This has obvious benefits, giving today's women economic freedom that their grandmothers did not have, but it also leaves less time for children, aging parents and everything else outside the office.
The pay increases for upper-middle-class and wealthy households, on the other hand, stem largely from healthy jumps in how much they earn each hour. Over all, a native family at the 90th percentile - earning more than 9 in 10 others - made 68 percent more in 1999 than in 1969, after adjusting for inflation, according to an examination of census numbers by the Public Policy Institute of California. At the 20th percentile, the increase was 30 percent.
This gap has allowed upper-income families to afford better health care and homes in better school districts, among other things, and it underlies much of the current economic debate.
MANY Democrats argue for an increase in the minimum wage (as does Mr. Easterbrook) or a repeal of the recent tax cuts, which benefited mainly upper-income families. Some of the Democratic presidential candidates want an overhaul of trade policy to keep middle-class jobs from moving abroad. Veterans of the Clinton administration counter that trade restrictions would make the country poorer over all. They tend to propose training and support programs for people who have lost their jobs.
Many Republicans say that government intervention to narrow the income gap would undermine the country's free-market system. An economy that tempts people to get very rich is a healthier one, they add.
All this is fodder for debate. Whether inequality has risen or fallen, however, is a settled question.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Richer, Faster"Among families headed by someone born in the United States, high-income families saw their earnings grow faster than middleincome ones. 1949Annual family income50th percentile: $19,61990th percentile: $40,20390th as a multiple of the 50th: 2.0 1959Annual family income50th percentile: 29,78890th percentile: 60,63090th as a multiple of the 50th: 2.0 1969Annual family income50th percentile: 40,80490th percentile: 81,39790th as a multiple of the 50th: 2.0 1979Annual family income50th percentile: 45,05090th percentile: 93,17290th as a multiple of the 50th: 2.1 1989Annual family income50th percentile: 47,73490th percentile: 106,67890th as a multiple of the 50th: 2.2 1999Annual family income50th percentile: 51,00090th percentile: 122,40090th as a multiple of the 50th: 2.4 (Sources by Queens College; Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); WRITERS (77%); TRENDS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); FAMILY (76%); JOURNALISM (75%); REFUGEES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Immigration and Refugees; Labor

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt; Gregg Easterbrook

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



615 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Hey, How About That Game?

BYLINE:  By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:
If the Super Bowl were running for president, it could probably hit a home run. (Oops. Wrong sport.) When it comes to this particular contest between teams of very large people, a sharply divided nation shows a startling near-consensus about the vital importance of watching it. 
 Americans don't just watch it, though. They talk about it, and talk and talk and talk. That brings up an odd little footnote to the game's vast economic impact. (Think ads, empty restaurants and beer sales.) Does all that talk cost something? 
 Challenger, Gray & Christmas, the outplacement firm that's ever ready to crunch the odd number, calculates mis-chievously that water-cooler Super Bowl talk will cost $821.4 million in lost productivity. So there. HUBERT B. HERRING

GRAPHIC: Chart: Of the 85 million people who plan to watch the Super Bowl next Sunday, an estimated 53 million, 62 percent, have jobs. Super Bowl viewers: 53 million (If the 53 million employed Super Bowl viewers . . .) x 10 minutes (. . . spent 10 minutes talking about the game at work . . .) = MONDAY -- $136.9 million a day (. . . the cost to employers would be $136.9 million each day.) Monday thru Monday (excluding Sat. & Sun.): $821.4 millionAnd costs would add up if the viewers spent 10 minutes talking for the five days before, and the day after, the game. RETAIL SALESYear-over-year change, weeklyGraph tracks the retail sales (Redbook average) year-over-year change, weekly since July 2003. NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSYear-over-year change, weeklyGraph tracks the year-over-year change of new mortgage applications since Aug. 2003. FOOD PRICESChange in Consumer Price IndexGraph tracks the change in consumer price index from Jan.-Dec. 2003. PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGSTotals in thousands, weeklyGraph tracks the number of personal bankruptcy filings since July 2003. ONLINE SALESDollars in billions, weeklyGraph tracks the total amount of online sales since July 2003. HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATESFour-week moving average, dailyGraph tracks the four-week moving average from Aug. 2003 through Jan. 17, 2004 for the following cities: NEW YORKCHICAGOLOS ANGELES (Sources by Challenger, Gray & Christmas Super Bowl costs ; Redbook Research retail sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics food costs ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; Smith Travel Research hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (88%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (66%); BEER & ALE (53%) Football; Labor; Productivity; Super Bowl

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Challenger Gray & Christmas

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Hubert B Herring

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



616 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: The State of the Unions; 
Single and Paying for It

BYLINE:  By Shari Motro; Shari Motro, a lawyer, is the author of "The Income Tax Map."

 BODY:
Amid all the heated discussion on both sides of the gay marriage debate, a broader point has somehow gotten lost: why should formally committed couples, straight or gay, enjoy special privileges in the first place? 
 Married couples can receive thousands of dollars in benefits and discounts unavailable to single Americans, including extra tax breaks, bankruptcy protections and better insurance rates. Why, for example, should a married poet whose wife pays the bills get tax breaks that are unavailable to a single poet who struggles to write between telemarketing jobs? Why should all workers be required to make the same Social Security contributions if retirees with non-wage-earning spouses get more back from the system? If we force single mothers off welfare on the theory that they should pay their own way, why don't we require married stay-at-home moms to pay market prices for health insurance? 
 Though most people would agree that these distinctions are arbitrary and unfair, as a society we tend not to notice that breaks for people who are married translate into penalties for those of us who are not. 
Take Gary Chalmers and Richard Linnell, two of the plaintiffs in the famous Massachusetts gay marriage case. Because they could not marry, Mr. Chalmers was unable to add Mr. Linnell to the health insurance policy offered by his employer. They had to purchase a separate policy for Mr. Linnell at considerable expense. In effect, this meant that Mr. Chalmers was paid less than his married co-workers for the same labor, as was every other unmarried employee.
The Massachusetts court found in November that excluding same-sex couples like Mr. Chalmers and Mr. Linnell from the benefits of marriage violated their civil rights. The court's decision, though, ignored the rest of Massachusetts' unmarried workers.
Singles' rights advocates face an uphill battle because their demands for equality are easily mistaken for anti-marriage assaults. Furthermore, because most Americans, myself included, believe that marriage provides a valuable social framework, many are quick to dismiss challenges to marriage-based benefits as a threat to the institution. Though well intentioned, this impulse makes no sense in the face of current realities. 
Many marriage-based benefits, for instance, are seen as proxies for helping families with children. Yet marriage is no longer a good indicator of parenthood. As of 2000, one in three children were born to unmarried parents. Distributing benefits intended to support child rearing on the basis of marital status gives a windfall to childless married couples while leaving empty handed single parents and their children -- who as a group already face harsher realities. 
Benefits are also defended as vehicles for promoting marriage. Their effectiveness in achieving this goal is dubious at best, counterproductive at worst. Common sense says that couples who are otherwise unprepared to take on the obligations of marriage and who do so for financial reasons only are prime candidates for divorce. 
Finally, marriage benefits may be seen as a way to reward citizens who take on the weighty obligations of wedlock. But if 50 percent of marriages end in divorce, 50 percent of marriage-based "rewards" are nothing but an expensive mistake. The marriage dole also subsidizes a growing number of unions governed by prenuptial agreements. Such pacts are usually intended to protect the assets of moneyed spouses, effectively undoing the very protections that, in part, make marriage worth defending in the first place.
Research consistently shows that unmarried Americans are on average poorer, sicker and sadder than their married counterparts. Yet they are denied perks given to married couples who, in many cases, neither need nor deserve them. Though gay couples certainly lose out as well, singles of any preference pay a triple price for not finding love: they don't enjoy the solace and support of a life partner; they don't profit from the economies of scale that come from pooling resources with a mate; and they effectively subsidize spousal benefits that they themselves can't take advantage of. 
Advocates for gay marriage have exposed a huge blind spot: married-only benefits also discriminate against America's 86 million unmarried adults. Contrary to popular belief, marriage penalties are far outweighed by marriage bonuses. The concerns of single Americans are urgent and deserve attention. Next time you're filling out a form that asks you to check the box next to "married," "single," "divorced" or "widowed," ask yourself this: Why should it matter? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (93%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); COHABITATION (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CHILDREN (88%); LITIGATION (88%); PARENTS (88%); FAMILY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (76%); WRITERS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); TELEMARKETING (55%) Marriages; Homosexuality; Taxation; Social Security (US); Bankruptcies; Insurance; Marriages

PERSON: Shari Motro

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



617 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: It's Time to Do the Budget Math in Albany, but Everyone Has a Different Set of Numbers 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
Last year, Gov. George E. Pataki proposed a $90.8 billion budget, then sounded alarms that the State Legislature had caused a "fiscal train wreck" when it added $2 billion in spending. He even suffered through the humiliation of the Legislature's overriding his vetoes because he believed that the budget had grown too large.
 This year, with the economy just beginning to revive, the governor has proposed a budget of $99.8 billion, 10 percent more than he proposed last year and 7.5 percent more than the budget that legislative leaders thought they enacted. 
 Yet in his budget address, Mr. Pataki said this year's proposed budget was based on "sound fiscal policies," and in a press release, he asserted that it increased spending only 1.5 percent over last year's plan.
How can that be, some lawmakers and budget experts ask.
In the weird and wacky world of Albany, everything depends on how you count, and none of the major players count the same way. 
Mr. Pataki's senior budget aides blame the Legislature for the rise in spending, saying legislative leaders badly underestimated the real cost of the budget they passed last May, an assertion Senate and Assembly budget experts dispute.
The finger-pointing aside, one thing is certain: this year the governor has proposed a budget that not only continues the state-supported spending the Legislature added last year but increases it by about $3.2 billion, to $63.4 billion. State-supported spending does not include federal aid.
That $3.2 billion amounts to a 5.5 percent increase, the second-highest rise in state spending Mr. Pataki has put forward in his nine-year tenure, exceeded only by the 8.5 percent rise he proposed in 1998 an election-year budget, analysts say.
"He's accepting all the spending increases they did last year, and he's leaving in the tax increases, too," said Edmund J. McMahon, an analyst with the Manhattan Institute, a conservative group. "He's basically seeing them and raising them."
For his part, the governor has been reluctant to openly bash the Legislature for the rise in spending, an indication he is not seeking a budget battle like the one he went through last year. But he has gently suggested the Legislature's refusal to rein in spending as he proposed last year, especially in Medicaid, the main federal-state health insurance program for the poor, has left the state with an inexorably growing bill.
"We would have been in tremendous shape had it not been for the budget that was adopted," the governor said on Tuesday.
Legislative leaders continue to say that the cost of the budget they passed for the current fiscal year, which ends March 31, will not exceed $92.8 billion including federal aid. But the budget director, Carole E. Stone, has maintained that the Legislature's budget will end up costing about $1.6 billion more.
In addition, the state paid about $1.9 billion in bills from the previous fiscal year in the current one, because the Legislature was slow to issue bonds the governor wanted to help close the gap. That inflated spending for the current budget even more.
Finally, after the budget was enacted, Congress came through with extra federal aid, a windfall of $1.2 billion in additional money for Medicaid, after Washington adjusted the formula governing the program. The state also received about $560 million in additional aid to help New York City recover from the attack on the World Trade Center, which the Pataki administration shows on its books as state spending, even though it only passed the federal money on to the city.
Meanwhile, the faltering economy drove up the number of people on welfare and those seeking government-supported health care. Those trends, coupled with a few other unexpected costs, added $160 million to the yearly Medicaid tab, budget officials said. Because the Legislature did not cut back the growth of Medicaid, the Pataki administration found itself fighting a losing battle to keep costs down, budget officials said. 
"You can't get it all out," said one senior budget aide, speaking on condition of anonymity. "The combination of legislative largess in the current year and the fact of the economic situation drives these costs up."
In the end, budget officials say, the grand total of spending for the fiscal year that ends March 31 will be $98.3 billion. For the coming year, the governor, who cultivates an image as a fiscal conservative, chose not to devise a budget that would cut spending back to take into account the loss of one-time revenues, like the extra federal aid for Medicaid, budget analysts said. Instead he added $1.5 billion in spending, bringing next year's grand total, under his plan, to $99.8 billion. Not counting the federal aid, the total would be $63.4 billion.
"His approach has not been to cut spending in this budget," said Diana Fortuna, an analyst with theCitizens Budget Commission, a nonprofit business-financed watchdog group. "It's much more a status quo budget."
Pataki aides argue that state spending will continue to grow because the Legislature did not take steps last year to rein in programs like Medicaid. Kevin Quinn, the spokesman for the State Budget Division, said that if the same budget were adopted next year as this year, spending would shoot up to $103.2 billion, driven largely by Medicaid, debt service and higher costs for pensions and health benefits for state workers. Indeed, the administration is proposing cutting back Medicaid by $800 million this year, just to keep the growth in what the state spends on the program in the ballpark of $672 million.
Legislative leaders deny they are to blame. Aides to the Senate Majority Leader, Joseph L. Bruno, and the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, say that the additions the Legislature made in May to the governor's proposed budget totaled about $2 billion and that they raised taxes by $2.8 billion to pay for those. They contend the governor controls spending. The Legislature cannot be held responsible, they said, if the administration allowed spending to rise steeply once additional federal aid came through in the fall.
"That's flat out wrong," said John McArdle, a spokesman for Senator Bruno. "We appropriated less than $2 billion in additions to the governor's budget and we paid for it." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); VETO (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); CONSERVATISM (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%) 

PERSON: James C Jr Mckinley; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



618 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Low-Wage Costa Ricans Make Baseballs for Millionaires 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

DATELINE: TURRIALBA, Costa Rica, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
The game of baseball is a pure product of America. The ball itself is another matter.
 Every baseball used in the major leagues is made here, millions of them. They are handcrafted with the precision of a machine by the men and women of Turrialba and the towns in the green hills beyond. 
 The baseball workers typically make about $2,750 a year. A baseball player in the United States makes, on average, about $2,377,000, the Players Association says. 
"It is hard work, and sometimes it messes up your hands, warps your fingers and hurts your shoulders," said Overly Monge, 37. Temperatures inside the factory can rise to 90 to 95 degrees, he said, and when they do, "we suffocate." 
He makes $55 a week after 13 years at the baseball factory, barely above Costa Rica's minimum wage. After he pays for the necessities of life, he has about $2 a day left over for himself, his wife and daughter. His salary, adjusted for inflation, is about the same as when he started.
But that's life, he said with a shrug. Hard work, but far better than no work at all. Many of the coffee and sugar cane plantations around here have collapsed, done in by the forces of globalization. There is only one other factory in Turrialba, population 30,000. Without baseballs, Mr. Monge said, life here "would be more like Nicaragua," the poor neighbor to the north. 
The baseball workers arrive at 6 a.m. and work until 5 p.m. Peak production pressures have pushed the day deep into the night. Each can make four balls an hour, painstakingly hand-sewing 108 perfect stitches along the seams. They are paid by the ball -- on average about 30 cents apiece. Rawlings Sporting Goods, which runs the factory, sells the balls for $14.99 at retail in the United States. 
"After I make the first two or three balls each week, they have already paid my salary," Mr. Monge said. "Imagine that." 
Warny Gomez, 33, worked for four years at Rawlings, put himself through college and became a primary school teacher. "People here have no choice but to work there," he said. "There are almost no other jobs." 
"There's tremendous pressure to produce," he added. "The balls have to be exactly alike, totally perfect, and for this work people are paid $50 or $60 a week. A machine can't make them -- it has to be done by hand. But they demand the precision and speed of a machine." 
Rawlings workers past and present say that while their real wages have not risen over the years, workplace safety has improved -- particularly since a new manager, Ken West, arrived four months ago. Previous bosses, they say, screamed at them, pressured them to go faster. Mr. West, an affable 62-year-old Missourian, is not that kind of boss.
Rawlings, founded in 1887, has had an exclusive contract to supply the major leagues with baseballs since 1977. Mr. West says the Costa Rica plant makes about 2.2 million balls a year and sells about 1.8 million of them to the majors. Officials at K2 Inc., the sporting goods company that acquired Rawlings last year, say the wholesale price the majors pay for those balls is a trade secret. Industry analysts say Rawlings sells about $35 million worth of baseballs a year, about one-third of the world market. 
Rawlings came to Costa Rica 16 years ago, from Haiti, where workers made $15 to $25 a week. It moved after a 1986 coup deposed the dictator Jean-Claude Duvalier.
"About the time the coup was going on in Haiti, they could see some problems coming," Mr. West said. Rawlings sought "a neutral country that has a good work force." 
Rawlings was awarded a 54,000-square-foot free-trade zone by Costa Rica. It pays no taxes. It imports duty-free the makings of millions of baseballs -- cores from the Muscle Shoals Rubber Company in Batesville, Miss.; yarn from D&T Spinning in Ludlow, Vt.; cowhide from Tennessee Tanning in Tullahoma, Tenn. 
Its operations are a harbinger of a pending free-trade accord between Costa Rica and the United States; negotiations on that agreement, expected to bring more such ventures to Costa Rica, are in their final stages. 
"Free trade is excellent for the United States, because they consume so much," Mr. Monge, the Rawlings worker, said. "For other nations, it's more complicated." 
As the sole source for major league baseballs, and the biggest employer by far in Turrialba, Rawlings seems to have things sewn up. Mr. West sees no social or economic tensions at the plant. He says his work force is more like a team or a family. 
"These people are so good -- they're just very good at it," he said. "I am just so impressed by the people." 
"The best thing's the pay," he said. "We're a good place to work." The work itself, he said, is "not demanding." As for repetitive-stress injuries, like carpal tunnel syndrome, "we just do not have that problem." 
However, Dr. Carlos Guerrero, who worked at the Rawlings plant as a company doctor in 1998, and at the national health insurance clinic in Turrialba from 1991 to 1997, said a third of Rawlings workers developed carpal tunnel syndrome in those years. (The syndrome, which causes pain and numbness in the hands, is common among assembly-line workers, typists and computer operators worldwide.) He said perhaps 90 percent of Rawlings workers experienced pain from their exacting work, from minor cuts to disabling aches. 
Officials at Major League Baseball headquarters in New York referred questions about the plant to Rawlings. The head of baseball's Players Association, Donald Fehr, said workplace injuries at the plant had not been brought to his attention. Dudley W. Mendenhall, a senior vice president of K2, also said he was unaware of any workplace injuries at the plant.
Few baseball players are aware of where the ball comes from, said Charles Kernaghan, the executive director of the National Labor Committee, an international workers' rights group based in New York. "But if the players would actually stand up, it would have enormous consequences" for the baseball workers, including better pay, he said. 
Some past employees say they had to quit after developing repetitive stress injuries, and they have the medical records to prove it.
"The work deforms your fingers and arms," said Maribel Alezondo Brenes, 36, who worked seven years at the plant -- until her doctor told her to stop sewing baseballs. 
Soledad Castillo, 46, cannot make a fist, or touch her right palm with her middle finger after nine years at Rawlings. Disputing Mr. West's contention that workers are not injured by their labor, she said, "If he ever worked a day sewing, he'd know it's hard."
Despite their injuries, the two women say they liked the camaraderie and the atmosphere at the Rawlings plant. "I can't complain about the work environment," Ms. Alezondo said. "The ventilation improved over the years," even if the pay did not. There was time to make small talk and good friends.
Still, when she talks about the difference in wages between baseball workers and baseball players, it takes her breath away. 
"We sacrifice a lot so they can play," she said. "It's an injustice that we kill ourselves to make these balls perfect, and with one home run, they're gone."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An unsewn baseball, above, is stitched together by hand in Turrialba, Costa Rica, by people like Soledad Castillo, left, whose hand was injured by the work.; The Rawlings plant in Costa Rica operates in a special tax-free zone, a harbinger of a pending free-trade agreement with the United States. (Photographs by Tim Rogers for The New York Times) Map of Costa Rica highlighting the location of Turrialba

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ATHLETES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); DIVESTITURES (62%); SUGAR FARMING (51%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (51%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (50%) Baseball; Sporting Goods; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Wages and Salaries; Factories and Industrial Plants; Free Ports and Trading Zones; Baseball; International Trade and World Market; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: RAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Rawlings Sporting Goods; K2 Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (58%) SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS; 

PERSON: Tim Weiner

GEOGRAPHIC: COSTA RICA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (79%) Turrialba (Costa Rica); Costa Rica; Haiti

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



619 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: NEW HAMPSHIRE; 
A Famously Contrary State Grows Harder to Typecast

BYLINE:  By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: PORTSMOUTH, N.H., Jan. 20 

 BODY:
Hard-nosed iconoclasts are the cliche of New Hampshire. This is, after all, a state that has long demanded that candidates take an anti-tax pledge, that has embraced political mavericks like Patrick J. Buchanan and John McCain, and that enshrined in its Constitution the "right of revolution."
 And as the Democratic presidential contenders descended on the state fresh from the Iowa caucuses, legislators were actually considering a bill to nullify the United States Constitution's 16th Amendment and end the collection of federal income taxes in New Hampshire. (Ultimately the bill was sidelined when its sponsor, Representative Henry McElroy, a Republican from Nashua, proposed a study committee, saying, "It's come to our attention -- hey, you can't nullify a federal law.") 
 But while its stubborn streak is still strong, New Hampshire these days is more nuanced than its past political prickliness might suggest. Maybe there was a metaphor in the loss last year of the state's famously craggy-faced icon, the rock formation known as the Old Man of the Mountain: New Hampshire is developing a less sharply etched face. 
For one thing, most residents -- 57 percent -- were not born in New Hampshire, an unusually high figure for a small Northeastern state.
For another, the newcomers -- many of them well educated and solidly upper middle class, and many of them from other New England states or the mid-Atlantic -- have helped turn New Hampshire from a place of fading factories and textile mills into a state-of-the-art economy with one of the country's highest percentages of high-tech workers.
Devastated by the recession of the early 1990's, New Hampshire has weathered this one much better, and while some high-tech jobs have been lost, unemployment, at about 4.3 percent, is well below the national average. Although property taxes and home prices are high, New Hampshire residents continue to oppose state income and sales taxes.
"The combination of high education, high income and the independent streak has given New Hampshire a lot of people who are liberal on social issues, conservative on economics," said Linda Fowler, a government professor at Dartmouth College. "It's ended up being quite a volatile electorate. It's not reliably anything."
New Hampshire, whose first-in-the-nation primary gives it outsize influence, is in an unusual position this year. Because issues like the Iraq war and the economy's slide have struck less intensely here, voters are looking less at the issues and more at the candidates.
"In other elections we can identify the economy voters, the environmental voters, the choice voters, the war voters," said Dick Bennett, president of the American Research Group in Manchester. "I can't do that now."
"The only issue is George W. Bush," Mr. Bennett said. "People say: 'I'm looking at Clark and Kerry and Dean or Edwards. If you can tell me which of those will beat Bush, I'll vote for them.' And they don't like it when the Democratic candidates attack each other, because they feel that it would hurt in defeating Bush."
Interviews with several dozen people in and around Portsmouth, a rejuvenated coastal city of 21,000, seemed to bear this out.
"I'm going on whether or not I like the person," said Kim Perkins, 37, an independent who is head waitress at Betty's Kitchen in North Hampton. Ms. Perkins said she would vote in the Democratic primary on Tuesday but had not decided for whom. "I just don't like what Bush does," she said.
Reanna Henshaw, 21, an art student and independent who was eating pancakes at the Friendly Toast in downtown Portsmouth, said, "I honestly don't know a lot about the other candidates, but I'll vote for pretty much anybody else except for Bush."
Even some Republicans seemed to be making assessments based on personal characteristics. Richard Marshuetz, 61, a building products executive, said he was a Republican and would probably vote that way, but was checking out Democrats. 
"There's an attitude about George Bush that I think is unbecoming to a leader of the greatest power the world has ever seen," Mr. Marshuetz said. "I like what I think is the caliber of both Kerry and Lieberman. I liked Wes Clark until I went to see him. He was too simple."
Political analysts say that because New Hampshire voters are less driven by particular issues, the state, which has often been unswayed by the Iowa caucuses, may be more susceptible to the views of Iowans this time.
Independents make up the largest segment of the New Hampshire electorate, 37.7 percent, and have been growing for the past dozen years -- partly because newcomers are often slower to affiliate with a party, partly because a 1993 law allowed independents to vote in a party's primary and then switch back to independent status.
Republicans, who constitute 36.7 percent of registered voters, are the next largest group. The governor, the state's Congressional delegation and most members of the Legislature are Republicans. In 2000, Mr. Bush defeated Al Gore by just over 7,200 votes here.
Professor Fowler said New Hampshire Republicans generally rejected the party's "evangelical wing." They are, she said, "uncomfortable with the anti-environmental, anti-abortion stance that supports rolling back civil rights, school prayer and the invasion-of-privacy provisions in the Patriot Act."
Democrats, who account for 25.6 percent of registered voters, are the group that changed the most with the influx of new residents, said Andrew E. Smith, a political scientist and director of the University of New Hampshire Survey Center. In contrast to the blue-collar union members whose predominantly Roman Catholic background made them conservative on some social issues, he said, the new New Hampshire Democrat is a "Volvo Democrat," well off and socially liberal. Twenty years ago, about a quarter of Democratic primary voters here labeled themselves liberal, Mr. Smith said; in 2000, more than half did.
That liberalism may account for the early popularity of Howard Dean. But the state's large ranks of independents may explain his diminishing support.
"Most of the independents probably have relatively weak party attachments and they want to vote in a primary that matters, so this time around they'll say, 'Let's vote in the Democratic primary where the action is,' " said William G. Mayer, a professor of political science at Northeastern University. 
Analysts say Portsmouth, whose electorate is 43 percent independent, reflects much of New Hampshire's influx. Once a bastion of blue-collar and military jobs, it is now populated by the Starbucks set and humming with cultural programs, artsy shops and stylish restaurants.
John Shea, an independent who moved to Portsmouth 18 months ago, exemplifies the well-educated newcomer trying to make up his mind. Mr. Shea, 40, a private school administrator, has lived in California, Massachusetts and Indiana, and his votes have ranged from John McCain to the Green Party.
This time, he says, he will vote in the Democratic primary because he is disappointed in President Bush's tax cuts, his handling of the Iraq war and his stewardship of America's international image.
Mr. Shea said he started out favoring Dr. Dean because he liked his "fiery anger." "He's frank and he just speaks off the top of his head," he said. But he said his enthusiasm "peaked a while ago" for Dr. Dean, who has "said things that are bordering on stupid." 
A self-described social liberal who is "fiscally conservative at the federal level," Mr. Shea said that while he had wanted Wesley K. Clark to run, the general had been a disappointment.
"He's been so phenomenally deliberate, strategic, political in everything that he's done," he said.
Mr. Shea said he did not connect with Mr. Kerry "on a personal level," but liked his judgment on issues and became more interested in him a few weeks ago. He said that the Iowa caucuses had convinced him to "take a harder look" at John Edwards, who finished a strong second. Iowa, he said, validated his opinions.
"I was already looking at Kerry strongly and Iowa said you should be," he said. "And I was already feeling uncomfortable about Dean and Iowa said you should be. I want someone who's going to beat Bush."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kim Perkins, who has not settled on a candidate yet, said she was "going on whether or not I like the person." (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times) Chart: "PROFILE: New Hampshire's Newcomers"Since 1992, an influx of well-educated upper-middle-class people into New Hampshire has changed the state. The newcomers, especially the Democrats, are more likely to see themselves as politically liberal. Over the same period, the number of registered Democrats has declined while independents have increased. Political ideology ALL ADULTSArrived since 1992Liberal: 26%Moderate: 42Conservative: 33 Residents before 1992Liberal: 19Moderate: 49Conservative: 33 DEMOCRATSArrived since 1992Liberal: 51Moderate: 42Conservative: 8 Residents before 1992Liberal: 34Moderate: 53Conservative: 13 REPUBLICANSArrived since 1992Liberal: 9Moderate: 37Conservative: 54 Residents before 1992Liberal: 8Moderate: 42Conservative: 51 Graph tracks voter registration (Independents, Democrats and Republicans) from 1990 to 2002. (Source by Andrew E. Smith, University of New Hampshire Survey Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); SALES TAX (73%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TEXTILE MILLS (64%); TEXTILE MFG (64%); EMPLOYMENT (63%); IRAQ WAR (62%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (60%); INCOME TAX (55%); HOME PRICES (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Primaries; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (59%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%) Pam Belluck; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); NASHUA, NH, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



620 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: As Kodak Sheds Jobs, Rochester's Corporate Identity Fades 

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, Jan. 23 

 BODY:
With the news that the region's largest employer would again cut thousands of jobs, the mood here was one of disappointment, but not surprise.
 Eastman Kodak said on Thursday that it planned to eliminate up to 15,000 jobs worldwide, including 4,500 jobs in Rochester. 
 "It's not news to jump up and down about," said Vincent J. Flow, a Kodak employee of 29 years who works as a research scientist. "But those who survive will probably be better off, and the company will be better off." 
Many departments held meetings Friday to answer questions employees had about the layoffs, workers said. "I think the overall reaction is people are disheartened," said an administrative assistant who spoke on the condition that she not be named, for fear that it might put her "higher on the list."
"I think they think they're doing what's right for the company," she added. "But it's sad. You don't know what to expect."
Rochester and Kodak were once intertwined, like many upstate cities and their corporate benefactors: Fulton and Nestle, Schenectady and General Electric, Syracuse and the Carrier Corporation. 
Kodak provided not just secure, high-paying jobs, but also its own culture. The city blossomed under its care. "My dad was a Kodak shift worker for 30 years," one man wrote on the online message board of the local newspaper, The Democrat and Chronicle. 
"My friends and I played K.P.A.A. softball and basketball," he wrote, referring to the Kodak Park Athletic Association. "Watched movies in the Kodak auditorium. It was a way of life. And those days are gone." 
But since the company's and the city's heyday a generation or two ago, they have had to cope with continual layoffs. In recent years, announcements of layoffs, large and small, seem to have come with the regularity of quarterly earnings reports. 
Timothy Kelly, a former research chemist, retired in 2002. He put in more than 32 years and did not feel pressured to leave. But in the end, he said he felt as if he were watching "a slow death." 
"It's been going on a long time," Mr. Kelly said of the layoffs. "I got to the point where I wanted to leave, so I just waited for a retirement incentive. But some didn't have a choice.
"They've skimmed all the people off the top and they're getting down to the bone now," he added. "It's depressing." 
After the newest round of layoffs, which are expected to take place over three years, the film giant might not even be Rochester's largest employer. In 2003, Eastman Kodak had 22,000 employees. Comparatively, the University of Rochester, which includes a large research and health care system under its umbrella, employed 15,600, said Robert Kraus, a university spokesman. At the end of 2003, that number grew to more than 16,040. 
After layoffs, Kodak's figures could be around 17,500. "We're obviously very close to being the largest employer," Mr. Kraus said. "I don't think it matters. When you're one of the top employers in a community, it carries a certain responsibility. The health of the institution counts a lot for the health of the community." 
While the university has grown some, Mr. Kraus said, its real strength has been its solidity. "We've been steady while other companies have been shrinking." 
Rochester has been trying to stay steady, too, but with less success. Migration to the suburbs and economic decline have boosted crime, as in Schenectady and Fulton, which also can no longer count on the patronage of large companies.
Rochester's homicide rate, in particular, has been high for more than a decade. "I don't think this will have a direct impact on violence," said John M. Klofas, a criminal justice professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology who has studied local crime patterns for 15 years. "There is some trickle-down effect, but these are high-end jobs."
Others still find reason to hope. Starting this May, a high-speed ferry will make daily trips across Lake Ontario, linking Rochester and Toronto. 
City officials say they hope that the ferries will bring tourists. 
"I really believe we're going to pull out of this," said Mary E. McCrank, the public relations director at the Susan B. Anthony House, a museum dedicated to the famous suffragist, who lived much of her life here. "Rochesterians don't give up easily. Susan B. Anthony spent her entire life working for the right to vote for women. We'll pull through and be stronger for this." 
As for Mr. Flow, he said he was not going to worry about events he cannot change. "The roles are going to be changing," he said, "but the company and the city will always be bonded."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kodak employees said they were disappointed but not surprised last week by news of the latest layoffs. The company is still the city's biggest employer, but the University of Rochester is quickly closing the gap. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); BASKETBALL (64%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (61%); COMPANY EARNINGS (61%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%) Layoffs and Job Reductions; Labor; Photography; Colleges and Universities; Teachers and School Employees

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (91%); CARRIER CORP (68%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); NESTLE SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Eastman Kodak Co; University of Rochester

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); NESN (SWX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3585 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT (68%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (55%)

PERSON: Michelle York

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Rochester (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



621 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: Groton Aims to Stay Off the Navy's List 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
WHEN the Naval Undersea Warfare Center in New London moved to Newport, R.I., in the 1990's, it took 3,000 high-technology research jobs with it. Private defense contractors moved thousands more jobs out of state to be closer to their customer. 
 Now with another round of military base closures planned for 2005, the region is worried about the naval submarine base in Groton. That base, with almost 10,000 military and civilian employees, is a much larger and potentially more tempting target for the Navy in its effort to pare down and close bases. 
 "I think we have to acknowledge that there's a chance we will be on that list," said John C. Markowicz, executive director of the Southeastern Connecticut Enterprise Region, an economic development agency. Mr. Markowicz is also chairman of the Subase Realignment Coalition, a group of local business and political leaders fighting to keep the base open. "I don't want to give any odds, but I would have to say the chances are at least 50-50." 
Norbert V. (Bud) Fay, who owns a car wash, laundry and diner on Route 12 within a couple of miles of the base, rallied local businesses in 1993 when the Navy recommended pulling the submarines out of Groton. When members of the base closure committee visited Groton he had people lining Route 12 waving signs in support of keeping it open. And he said he's ready to do it again.
"I think the sense of the business community is that the loss of the base would be catastrophic, and the impact would be far greater than just the customers who would move away," Mr. Fay said. "The base is the underpinning of the economy of the whole southeastern area."
Adding to local fears are efforts by communities in other states to convince the Navy they would be a better place to do business. Some Rhode Island officials have suggested that the training centers at the base could be combined with the Navy schools in Newport, R.I., and officials in Georgia have said the base in Kings Bay, Ga., could accommodate some of Groton's submarines.
"Those Rhode Island folks, in particular, really did their homework the last time around, and they have Patrick Kennedy as a congressman, whose father is one of the most powerful men in the Senate," said Thomas A. Sheridan, a member of the coalition and head of a committee drafting an economic development strategy for southeastern Connecticut. "They'd love to grab as much as they can, so we need to be just as aggressive about pointing out the synergies that exist here."
The greatest synergy in Southeastern Connecticut, supporters of the base say, is between the base and Electric Boat in Groton, which builds and maintains Navy submarines. That means when a submarine is due for an overhaul, which can last more than 18 months, the Navy does not have to move the entire crew to a new state. But lately officials have begun to worry about the flip side of that synergy: if the base leaves, would Electric Boat follow.
Jeffrey Blodgett of the Connecticut Economic Resource Center agreed. He has completed a preliminary estimate that the regional economy could suffer as much as a $2.5 billion a year loss if the base is closed next year, including 24,000 lost jobs and $1.2 billion a year in personal income.
Mr. Blodgett said his analysis includes not only the jobs that would be lost on the base, but the spin-off effects. He said he figured that Electric Boat would eventually close if the base leaves.
"For a company that has a single customer, and that customer moves away, that's something you have to consider," Mr. Blodgett said. John P. Casey, president of Electric Boat, does not say the shipyard would put up for sale signs if the base leaves, but he does not entirely discount Mr. Blodgett's theory, either.
"The proximity of the shipyard to that submarine base is crucial to our future success," Mr. Casey said. 
Electric Boat is also one of the key customers for smaller manufacturers in the region, Mr. Blodgett said, and if the shipyard closed, "That could be the death knell, essentially, for manufacturing locally."
Mr. Sheridan said it's not just the economic impact of the base that is important to the region, however. Navy sailors are tutors in local schools, coaching local sports teams, leading Scout groups, and otherwise very active in the community, volunteering uncounted thousands of hours to service organizations. And many former service members retire to the region, some of them starting companies there, others going to work for existing firms.
"Those are very bright people at the base, and they add a lot to our community," Mr. Sheridan said. "It would be a horrible loss for us if it was gone. I don't even want to contemplate it."
After a small round of base cuts in the late 1980's, the present system of base closure was developed in 1991, and repeated in 1993 and 1995. The Pentagon this month issued a lengthy questionnaire to each base in the country on which will be listed the assets and capabilities of each installation, which will allow for direct comparisons between them. Next, the Pentagon will develop a list of suggested closures.
The president, in consultation with Congress, will establish a formal base realignment and closure commission later this year that will review the Pentagon list and develop its own recommendations, which must be finished by Sept. 8, 2005. Those recommendations are then sent to the president, who can ask for changes. By November, the president and Congress get the final list of recommendations.
Navy personnel are prohibited from discussing base closure issues now that the process has officially begun. But Capt. James E. Ratte Jr., the commanding officer of the base, said last year that Groton, with 17 submarines, is already the largest submarine base the Navy operates and it will receive the first two Virginia-class submarines that are under construction at Electric Boat.
The base has about $100 million of construction under way, including $20 million of housing projects, and a decade-long project to improve the piers at the base (to accommodate modern submarines) is in the final planning stages and will begin next year. Captain Ratte is also in discussions with the Office of Naval Reactors about projects that could begin in 2007, 2010, and 2014 to construct simulators of submarine maneuvering rooms.
"I'm sprinting, and no one is stopping me," Captain Ratte said at the meeting last year. "The naval submarine base, at least in my opinion, is here to stay."
Captain Ratte, in a statement last week,said that for now he and the sub base "will continue our focus on our waterfront and sailors. For as we always have, we remain committed to our mission: supporting fleet readiness by providing quality service and facilities to our submarine community and their families."
But nobody locally is taking the base for granted.
"This year, the danger is probably greater than ever, because Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld has said this is going to be the biggest of them all," said William D. Moore, who was president of the local chamber of commerce and very active in the process to save the base from the first four federal base closures from 1989 to 1995. "We've heard the Navy has to cut about 25 percent of its infrastructure, which is a huge number."
Communities across the country that are host to military bases are taking the threat more seriously this time. When Mr. Markowicz and the vice chairman of the Subase Realignment Coalition, Frank O'Beirne of Groton, a retired Navy captain, went to Washington last month to meet with Assistant Navy Secretary Hansford T. Johnson, they had the time slot between the governor of Hawaii, who was arguing for the bases there, and a delegation from Crane, Ind., which is home to a Navy research center.
"We didn't walk away saying we saved the base, and we didn't walk away feeling the sub base was on the list," Mr. Markowicz said. 
One thing they did learn is that process next year will be weighted toward keeping bases that are in use by more than one service, such as a landing strip that can be used by Army, Navy, Marine and Air Force aircraft, or that provides training for multiple services.
Mr. Markowicz said that puts the submarine base at a bit of a disadvantage, because only the Navy operates submarines, but submarines also work closely with the joint Special Forces, which will be stressed at base closure hearings.
Mr. Johnson also told them that the emphasis next year will be on realignment, rather the closure of bases. There are some 70 tenant commands at the base that could be moved, such as the Naval Undersea Medal Institute, which trains medics, and the Naval Submarine Medical Research Laboratory, which investigates health threats to submariners.
"I don't think the process will leave the base entirely unscathed," Mr. Markowicz said. "And there's a lot of concern that piecemeal realignment of various commands could, in fact, have the same result as closure."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The U.S.S. Memphis, a fast attack submarine, returning to base in Groton. Left, John Markowicz, executive director of Southeastern Connecticut Enterprise Region, aims to keep the base open. (Photographs by C.M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES (91%); NAVIES (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); SHIPBUILDING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%) United States Armament and Defense; Military Bases and Installations; Submarines; Shipbuilding, Conversion and Repair 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (93%) Electric Boat Division of General Dynamics Corp

PERSON: PATRICK J KENNEDY (52%) Robert A Hamilton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (93%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (92%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Groton (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



622 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL MEMO; 
Lies, Apologies, but, So Far, No Mercy

BYLINE:  By PAUL VON ZIELBAUER; Paul von Zielbauer, a reporter at The Times, is a former chief of the Hartford bureau.

 BODY:
THE president of the United States can't afford to be seen with him. Lawmakers want to impeach him. Editorial writers condemn him. Voters do not trust him. 
 John G. Rowland, governor of Connecticut, has become John G. Rowland, groveler of Connecticut, a serial apologist after deceiving the public about free renovations made to his lakeside cottage. 
 And yet, saying sorry has not helped. No matter how much he pleads for forgiveness, no matter how diligently he dog paddles toward that illusory island of mercy, wherePresident Bush will still call him "Johnny" and State House Democrats will obediently heel, no one from either party has risked his own political future to throw the sinking governor a lifeline. Or give him a face-saving job in the private sector. 
Aside from David Boomer, the Republican operative who has been on freelance assignment behind enemy lines at the State Ethics Commission, Mr. Rowland is bowling more or less alone. How alone? On the verge of becoming the first Connecticut governor to be impeached, John Rowland has taken on Bill Clinton as a role model. 
Part of his problem is that Mr. Rowland's apology took so long to quicken into genuine contrition. But even now the feeling among many of his fellow Republicans is that Mr. Rowland admits and promptly regrets only as much as he thinks is necessary to stay in office.
"Part of his whole problem has been his arrogance," said the State Senate's longest-serving Republican, George L. Gunther. 
Consider the truth's long, languid emergence over the last six weeks. 
When he first apologized, through a printed statement on Dec. 12, for denying that friends, associates and his own employees had outfitted his lakeside cottage, the governor admitted only to giving out "incorrect and incomplete" information a mere mistake. That statement was presented by aides late on Friday so that it would appear in Saturday newspapers, when readership is lowest, and it concluded with Mr. Rowland's now-laughable assertion that "I will have no further public comment on these issues."
After five days of laying low, Mr. Rowland actually spoke about his actions, apologizing but also blaming other people: "I should have paid more attention to people around me, people I trusted," he said. 
Then came The Poem, the ode from his wife that essentially blamed the media for the governor's problems.
That made things worse. So on Jan. 7, left with no other foreseeable way to beat back a political revolt, the governor went on live television to admit, "I lied." 
Even State House Republicans who stood by Mr. Rowland year after year, holding his line on state budget after budget, now wonder at the governor's unwillingness to come completely clean. 
"There are a lot of questions that have appropriately been asked of the governor that haven't been answered," said Robert M. Ward, the minority leader in the State House of Representatives who, unlike a majority of Republicans in the Senate, has not urged Mr. Rowland to resign. 
The next Bright Lights, Big News moment in Connecticut politics may come this Thursday, when President Bush is scheduled to arrive in Greenwich for a fund-raiser. The biggest news, though, will be that Governor Rowland, the state chairman of Mr. Bush's re-election campaign, had steered clear of the event. 
"Given the current circumstances, it would detract from the president's day," a spokesman for Governor Rowland explained.
Translation: It would detract from the president's re-election campaign. 
That may not even be the most awkward moment on the governor's horizon. On Feb. 4, he is scheduled to stride into the House to deliver Connecticut's State of the State speech to all 187 state lawmakers, most of whom are Democrats demanding his resignation and another two dozen of whom are Republicans demanding his resignation. 
Will they stand and applaud -- or just applaud, or just stand, or remain seated and not applaud for a governor whom 57 percent of voters want booted from office? 
"A number of legislators intend not to be there, they will boycott," said Kevin B. Sullivan, the Democratic Senate president pro tem. "I think it's going to be a very cool reception."
Senator Sullivan, who has called for the governor's resignation, said he briefly considered not sitting on the dais during Mr. Rowland's speech, in protest, but decided "there is a certain dignity to the process that needs to be observed."
His greatest concern about that afternoon, he said, was that Mr. Rowland "will try to pack the hall with every crony he can scrape up from every state agency where he's got people loyal to him."
What is no longer surprising is that two of Connecticut's three Republican members of Congress have called on Governor Rowland to quit and that the one member who has not, Nancy Johnson, has endorsed impeachment proceedings. 
What is surprising is how much trouble a few hours of free labor at the governor's rural home has made for a governor once called Teflon John. 
National magazines now mock Mr. Rowland, political blogs are full of predictions of how long he will last. 
Last week's Time contained an article about the national rash of high-profile lying. In between Pete Rose and the Ohio woman who admitted she filed a false police report claiming she had lost a $162 million lottery ticket, was the governor of Connecticut.
Even The Economist, a tweedy British newsweekly that had to explain to readers that Hartford was the capital of Connecticut, published a chippy summary this month of how Mr. Rowland "made it all up."
Then again, it has been roughly 225 years since Connecticut cared about what the British had to say about politics here. 
More important is whether Governor Rowland can remain a positive rather than a distracting or even negative force for the state's struggling big cities. Since "I lied," the governor may have lost some of the powers of political persuasion so elemental to Adriaen's Landing, the $700 million downtown Hartford revitalization project Mr. Rowland has made the cornerstone of his legacy.
"When the main fund-raiser gets into this kind of trouble, it's harder to call on those pledges," said Matt Hennessy, chief of staff to Hartford's mayor, Eddie A. Perez, referring to Mr. Rowland and his years of careful groundwork securing private sources of cash for the project. 
"Now people are turning to see who can help them keep these projects going," Mr. Hennessy added.
"The old dynamic was the governor was going to make it happen and the city was going to come hat in hand," he said. "Now it's more up to Hartford city government and developers to make things happen for themselves." 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POETRY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); WRITERS (78%); ETHICS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (60%) Ethics; Politics and Government

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%) John G (Gov) Rowland; Paul Von Zielbauer

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



623 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: UPDATE; 
This Land Is Their Land, but ...

BYLINE:  By NANCY DONIGER

 BODY:
SEVERAL years ago, Newtown residents voted to purchase Fairfield Hills, the former state mental hospital situated in the center of town. But a series of delays -- including a setback last month -- has postponed the closing of the deal.
 For more than a month, work crews have been removing contaminated soil from the property after a spill of 4,500 gallons of heating fuel on Dec. 8. 
 Town officials expect to take ownership next month, but not until the state Department of Environmental Protection completes its work, First Selectman Herb Rosenthal said.
Fairfield Hills, including 186 acres and buildings, was purchased for $3.9 million in June 2001. The town already owns 100 acres of the land. 
Last August, voters rejected a proposed master plan for the site that called for demolition of seven to nine buildings and construction of a new town hall.
The Board of Selectmen is refining the master plan and expects to present it to the Planning and Zoning Commission soon.
"We're getting closer," Mr. Rosenthal said. "The plan will be flexible. It will allow municipal and private use but not require anything. It will be implemented over a long period of time."
The land was acquired by State Representative Julia Wasserman and her 1994 Task Force to Study the Re-Use of Fairfield Hills State. Ms. Wasserman has worked with Richard Nuclo of the State Office of Policy and Management on the future of Fairfield Hills for more than a decade.
With Mr. Nuclo's help, she recently raised a bill to acquire another 12 acres during the coming legislative season. 
"It's a strategically important piece of property that connects with other land," she said. "It could be used to build a north-south corridor to relieve traffic on Route 34 and Route 25."
Dan Shea, who has lived near the former hospital for 36 years, would like to see the land used for municipal purposes and hiking trails. 
"Fairfield Hills is an island of refuge from the chaos," Mr. Shea said. "I'm in favor of anything that can reduce traffic in town." 
Meanwhile, a group called Friends of Fairfield Hills headed by Ruby Johnson, a longtime resident, said it would continue to press its position to keep the property for town use and encourage economic development elsewhere.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers removing contaminated soil from the Fairfield Hills property in Newtown. After years of delays, officials are hoping to gain ownership of the property next month. (Photo by Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); CITIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); ZONING (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (57%); HIKING (50%) Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: Fairfield Hills Hospital (Newtown, Conn)

PERSON: Nancy Doniger

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Newtown (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



624 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: L.I.@WORK; 
A Self-Help Author Takes His Own Advice

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
TO many authors, a looming publication deadline is stressful enough. But when you're Stuart R. Levine, and the book you're writing promises to help people organize their time, improve their productivity and in general teach them how to plan a road map to career success, falling behind schedule is decidedly cause for concern.
 "A lot of credibility is lost in the gap between what you say and what you do," Mr. Levine, 56, writes in "The Six Fundamentals of Success" (Doubleday, 2004). Meeting your own deadlines is recommended, heartily. See Fundamental No. 3: Know How to Deliver Results. 
 With a growing consulting practice to run in Jericho, Mr. Levine had little time for editorial wheel-spinning. When Roger Scholl, his Doubleday editor, took issue with an early version of the manuscript, Mr. Levine realized that they needed to confront their differences ("Face Up to Difficult Conversations," and "Candor Counts," both in Fundamental No. 2). Then they could proceed to work together effectively ("Go for the Buy-In," part of Fundamental No. 3). 
So, in May, Mr. Levine rented a conference room at the University Club in Midtown Manhattan. He, Mr. Scholl and several other people associated with the project rolled up their sleeves and papered the walls with fundamentals, principles and other directives that went into the book.
"We had things we ended up discarding and things we ended up moving around," Mr. Scholl recalled. "We wanted to make sure each rule worked the way it should." 
When they left at the end of the day, the book's progress was back on track. Mr. Levine met his deadline. Right after New Year's, right on schedule, Doubleday began shipping the first of 20,000 copies to bookstores. The book was selected as the lead title for Doubleday's Currency imprint, its business book division, for winter 2004, meaning that it will get an additional marketing push. 
Managing situations that could torpedo a project, or even derail a career, are Mr. Levine's stock in trade, or as he would call term it, his brand. As a novice high school ecology teacher in Plainview in the early 70's, Mr. Levine dreamed of a political career and convinced voters in Bethpage area to send him to Albany in 1972. 
In 1974, the voters changed their minds. Mr. Levine returned home. "After I left government, I made the decision to leave the public payroll," he said. Not that it was a good time to do it. The economy was floundering, and demand for a 27-year-old Albany has-been was predictably weak.
Mr. Levine called on Universal Unlimited, a company in Glen Cove that manufactured industrial plastics, and began selling plastic on commission. One afternoon in Manhattan, when he was heading across town to visit a prospect, it began to rain. The drizzle turned into a downpour. Mr. Levine didn't have enough money for cab fare and began running through the rainy streets.
"I learned," he said evenly, "how to sell."
He has never stopped. In 1978, WLIW, then a fledgling public television station, invited Mr. Levine to join its board and later appointed him chairman for a two-year stint. "I'm not surprised they appointed me," he said. "I was a member of the community, I had a background in teaching, and I was a former assemblyman."
Fundamental No. 5 in Mr. Levine's new book is "Invest in Relationships." This is what he did when he got to know the other directors at WLIW, including J. Oliver Crom, who was a vice chairman of Dale Carnegie Inc., the motivation training company, then in Garden City (it has since moved to Hauppauge). 
Mr. Levine gave up selling plastics and went to work for Mr. Crom. His first job was looking for ways to improve organizational efficiency. In 1991, he was named the company's chief executive. His appointment, he said, represented the first time someone from outside the Carnegie family had held that position.
He described the job as a turn-around situation. "I brought in five or six consultants to help me," he said. With one exception, he said, the consultants failed him. They told him what they thought he wanted to hear.
"You need to associate yourself with people who will give you plain talk," he said. The lesson forms the backbone of much of the new book, especially Chapter 4, "Conduct Yourself and Your Business With Integrity."
This book is Mr. Levine's second. The first, under the Dale Carnegie imprimatur, was "The Leader in You" (Simon & Schuster, 1995). It sold 100,000 copies, Mr. Levine said, and was translated into 24 languages. Its success was aided by his being named Ernst & Young's Entrepreneur of the Year for Long Island in 1995. 
In 1997, Mr. Levine left Dale Carnegie, a move he attributes to wanting to spend less time on the road. He went home to Brookville and appointed himself chairman and chief executive of Stuart R. Levine & Associates. The company, a consulting practice, was based in his home. The associate was his wife, Harriet. The couple had two children in high school and, as yet, no clients.
Despite his change in circumstances, Mr. Levine continued to conduct himself, he said, the same way he had when he headed Dale Carnegie. He kept up with his clubs, his community organizations and his philanthropic activities. At a charity golf event at the Meadowbrook Club, he met Thomas McAteer Jr., who had just been named the chief executive of Vytra Health Plan, in Melville.
"When you meet someone who might further your goals or teach you something, get their contact information, and put it in an electronic file," Mr. Levine writes. "Use a system to remind you who you haven't spoken to recently. Call them, e-mail them, or get together if you have the time."
At Vytra, Mr. McAteer was trying to overhaul the way the company, a health maintenance organization, did business while at the same time integrating it into the operations of HIP, the health-care giant that had just acquired it.
Mr. McAteer said he invited Mr. Levine to visit his company and suggest how he could help change it. At the time, he said, he had not realized that Mr. Levine's consulting practice was formed to do exactly that. "He didn't mention he was a consultant when we met," Mr. McAteer said. "We just talked about business."
Mr. Levine helped Mr. McAteer reorganize the way Vytra worked. "Stuart has been an extraordinary plus," Mr. McAteer said. "Stuart is the real thing."
Mr. McAteer said he has already bought 200 copies of the latest book to give to other executives at Vytra and HIP and is considering making another bulk purchase to give to honors students at Hofstra University, where he sits on a board that shapes advanced academic programs.
"This is such practical stuff," he said, describing the book's message. "If you sit and read it and think about it, well, you'll benefit. It's just a very valuable read." 
Mr. Levine said the book's lessons draw prominently from the dinner table conversations held long ago with his parents, the late David and Rickey Levine of Bethpage. His father was a lawyer, and his mother worked as an administrative for his father's law firm. "My father especially had some very strong feelings about ethics and values, which he worked hard at transmitting," Mr. Levine recalled. "And we lived in a community that had a strong work ethic."
"I'm only sorry," he said, "that they aren't around to see this book published."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with the L.I.@Work column, about a Long Island-based business-advice writer, Stuart R. Levine, misspelled the surname of a Cold Spring Harbor woman shown receiving an autographed copy of his new book. She is Natasha Koll, not Kall.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Book Revue in Huntington, Stuart R. Levine signs a copy of his new book, "The Six Fundamentals of Success," for Natasha Kall of Cold Spring Harbor. (Photo by Dan Neville for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOKSTORES (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (60%) Books and Literature

PERSON: Stuart R Levine; Warren Strugatch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (85%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



625 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: SOAPBOX; 
... and Citizenship for Latinos

BYLINE:  By ALLAN B. RAMIREZ; The Rev. Allan B. Ramirez is pastor of the Brookville Reformed Church and chairman of the Nassau County Commission on Human Rights.

 BODY:
THE most rapidly growing community on Long Island are the new immigrants of Latino descent. This trend is but a reflection of a similar pattern across the country. Certainly there has been greater visibility of the Latino community in some circles of society, but much more needs to happen in order to bring this community into the mainstream of the general population; participating and being represented in all facets of political, business, cultural, and social life in America.
 Without question, the business community has come to recognize the tremendous buying power and potential within the Latino community. There is tremendous investment being made in advertising to reach to this segment of the population. Of course, the cynical side of me tells me that the only reason business is paying attention to us is because we have something business wants. Money. 
 Business is willing to treat us equally as any other consumer who has money to spend on products they want to sell. Politically, culturally and socially is another issue. For the most part, politicians are ignoring the Latinos even though we have been growing in numbers, and we are partly responsible for that. Latinos come from about two-dozen countries and have been slow at obtaining American citizenship. The average politician has little motivation to help, represent or acknowledge any group of people that has no voting power. While Latinos have a tradition of maintaining their identity and ties with our country of origin, it is vital that we remember that we have come to the United States for economic and educational opportunities. 
If we are to fully realize the opportunities we seek, and to make the American Dream a part of our lives, we must make an intentional effort to naturalize all who have planted new roots here in the United States. Failure to go down this path will result in the continued marginalization of millions of people, and we will only have ourselves to blame. 
The most recent race for Suffolk county executive saw two candidates from major political parties totally ignoring one of the major issues in that county. The issue of undocumented workers was not debated or addressed by either candidate, and the media never challenged them to do so. Why? Because the Latino community is largely seen as a group that can be ignored without having to pay a political price. 
Another example that comes to mind is the lack of visibility of government officials willing to condemn the brutal bias attacks against Latinos. For the most part, major political leaders remained silent when two day laborers were lured by neo-Nazis and almost killed in Farmingville in 2000. Equally disgusting was the lack of our officials' coming forward to condemn the firebombing of the home of a Latino family in Farmingville this past summer. Even the Suffolk County police department was reluctant to label this a possible bias incident. 
Latino community leaders must realize that nobody is going to help our community, unless and until we help ourselves by setting our sights on naturalization for every Latino. 
A voice must be raised that a new day is coming to America. A new day of justice and righteousness that will be made possible when we exercise the basic principle of having the power to participate in the democratic process through our vote. We must challenge ourselves and each other to integrate fully into the fabric of the great nation so many have risked their lives to reach.
Today our community may be mostly doing the dirty work nobody else is willing to do. Dishwashers, maids, landscapers, construction workers, short-order cooks, car-wash attendants, office cleaners, etc. Yet, we must dream that from these humble roots will come the next generation of leaders for the United States. Our children will become teachers, doctors, lawyers, government officials, accountants, etc., and our contributions will usher us into a new day for the United States. 
A new day can and will come to America, but it is up to us to make it happen. And citizenship is the only way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (92%); IMMIGRATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); COUNTIES (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (70%); HATE CRIME (65%) Immigration and Refugees; Hispanic-Americans; Citizenship 

PERSON: Allan B (Rev) Ramirez

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



626 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: In Producer, Classical Music Has a Friend 

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

DATELINE: PURCHASE 

 BODY:
THE sounds of Prokofiev reverberated through an underground recording studio at the Performing Arts Center of Purchase College here, as Adam Abeshouse, his curly head bobbing to the ferocious beat, made notes in the score. Green lights danced on the recording equipment until an unprintable word from a player in the Recital Hall upstairs halted the music blaring through the speakers. 
 That ended the first take of Prokofiev's Sonata No. 1 in F minor for piano and violin, Opus 80, one recent morning. Then Anne-Marie McDermott, the pianist, and Ida Kavafian, the violinist, joined Mr. Abeshouse in the studio to hear a playback of the recording. 
 "It sagged a little here," Mr. Abeshouse said, indicating a measure in the score. "And here -- was that crescendo too soon?" Ms. McDermott agreed to "hold it back a little," and the two musicians went back upstairs for another take. 
It was the second of a string of days devoted to recording the complete chamber music of Prokofiev, played by members of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center. Mr. Abeshouse headed the project not only as a Grammy-winning producer and engineer but also as the president of the Classical Recording Foundation, a group he started six years ago to assure that such recordings would be made. 
The foundation supports projects of high artistic merit but low commercial priority at a time when the music industry is searching for its footing and classical music is fighting for its life as a viable recording genre. "It's essential," Ms. Kavafian said of the foundation, "because the recording industry is in such dire straits."
Ms. McDermott, who made news last summer with a marathon performance of all nine Prokofiev piano sonatas on two successive Saturdays at the Lincoln Center Festival, was equally grateful to the foundation. "It's giving us theopportunity to record the repertoire we want to record," she said, rather than works decided by the record companies.
Mr. Abeshouse, a Pelham resident who is also a professional violinist, helps artists by granting foundation money to small record labels -- Bridge Records of New Rochelle is one -- for whatever aspect of the recording process is needed. He does not view himself as a martyr to the cause of high art, saying that a "deeply flawed distribution system" for classical music has obscured the true market for such records. He says the notion that classical music does not sell has not truly been tested, because record stores stock only one or two copies of a newly released classical CD. 
After they are sold, he said, people seeking the recording are turned away. He said he started the foundation because "I kept running into economic road blocks for so many projects of real value and real worth."
So when Ms. McDermott took the Prokofiev idea to Mr. Abeshouse, her longtime friend (they knew each other as children at the Manhattan School of Music's preparatory division), he jumped in to help. The Arabesque label agreed to release the set of CD's of the chamber music from the finished master recording that Mr. Abeshouse provides, either later this year or in 2005. (He and Ms. McDermott said they were disappointed with Arabesque, though, because her recordings of the Prokofiev solo piano sonatas, which were completed last year, have not yet been released.)
Mr. Abeshouse, so unflappable that even the theft of his computer from the recording studio the day before did not dampen his enthusiasm, seemed to be having a wonderful time during the recording session.
"Unbelievable!" he exclaimed, as the music blasted through the speakers. "Just wake them out of bed and they can play like this!"
On stage, the players were in their socks, shoeless, so no sounds of foot-tapping or stomping on the pedals would be heard on the recording. 
Each musician wore two sweaters, and Ms. McDermott put a padded red leather glove on her right hand to keep it warm between takes. They were enduring the cold temperature in the Recital Hall because the hot air blowers had been turned off to prevent background noise. 
Ms. Kavafian, a resident of New Fairfield, Conn., described a good record producer as "part psychologist." 
Mr. Abeshouse filled that role during one of the playbacks, when Ms. Kavafian was unhappy with her violin.
"It loses a certain beauty of sound when you get close to it," she said of the instrument, a J.B. Guadagnini violin made in 1752.
Mr. Abeshouse calmly reassured her, and the two musicians went back upstairs.
He made a slight but crucial adjustment to the placement of Ms. Kavafian's microphone, offered suggestions about certain measures to both players ("I want to get a rocking feeling here;" "I want that to sound like bones rattling," he said) and sat back to wait for the magic to happen. 
He wasn't disappointed. "Sometimes if you give them little clues," he said, "it unlocks something and opens up new vistas for them." 
The foundation has staged ceremonies at Carnegie Hall for the last two years, where awards have also gone to Gilbert Kalish and Joel Krosnik to record the complete cello sonatas of Brahms for Arabesque; to the St. Luke's Chamber Ensemble (of which Mr. Abeshouse is a member) to record the complete Brandenburg concertos of Bach for Delos International; to Bridge Records for a recording of music by George Crumb; and to the Kalichstein-Laredo-Robinson Trio to record complete piano trios of Beethoven for Arabesque. 
Those recordings have been released and can be bought by visiting the Web sites of the individual labels. In addition, a recording of the music of Martinu, Lutoslawski and Rachmaninov by Andres Diaz, cello, and Judith Gordon, piano, is scheduled for release in June by Arabesque. 
Next month will bring new excitement for Mr. Abeshouse, who has been nominated for a second Grammy as producer of the year (he won his first for work done in 1999). On Feb. 15, a week after the Grammy award ceremony, which will be held Feb. 8 in Los Angeles, the foundation will sponsor a benefit concert featuring a solo recital by the pianist Garrick Ohlsson. 
The event will take place at a private home in Mamaroneck. For tickets or other information, the number is (914)633-5323. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the Classical Recording Foundation, which supports projects of high artistic merit but low commercial priority, gave its age incorrectly and, because of an editing error, misstated the form of its grants. The foundation is three years old, not six. It makes grants to artists, not directly to recording companies. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Adam Abes-house, the president of the Classical Recording Foundation, started the group six years ago to assure that recordings like the one he is working on here in the Purchase College recording studio would be made. (Photo by Roberta Hershenson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (95%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC STORES (73%); FESTIVALS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%) Music; Recordings (Audio)

ORGANIZATION: State University of New York at Purchase; Classical Recording Foundation; Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center

PERSON: Adam Absehouse; Roberta Hershenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



627 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: COUNTY LINES; 
Business or Pleasure? A Family Man Hits the Road

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS

DATELINE: ROUND TOP, TEX. 

 BODY:
IT'S not exactly the Swiss Alps, this part of rural Texas, but for my purposes it was going to do just fine. And my purposes, as a Westchester father with two children going on three, were quite complex, or perhaps more accurately, slightly suspect. 
 There was, of course, the work portion of the trip. I had to be in Houston on a reporting trip for an article for this newspaper on the National Museum of Funeral History. It's a place with the largest collection of hearses, urns and coffins that it has ever been my pleasure to see. I spent precisely 5 hours and 32 minutes looking at them all and scribbling notes. Then it was time for the remainder of the trip, approximately 41 hours and 17 minutes. 
 I carved out that extra time (or, more accurately, padded it on) so I could visit a friend who used to live in New Jersey but then moved to this farm town, population 77, to share custody of his daughter with the girl's mother, who lives here. Unlike my friend, I wasn't uprooting my life, just taking a brief leave. 
Since I became a suburban father, I haven't traveled much beyond day trips for work.
With kids to ferry and snow to shovel, getting a furlough at home for a few minutes, let alone hours, is a production. But folding a little bit of child-free rest and relaxation into a business trip seemed as natural as an up-back tray table. My wife knew I'd be killing a bit of time not with Carmelite nuns but rather with a friend with whom I had shared a rambunctious college experience, but what was she going to say? I had to be in Texas for work anyway.
I was so enthralled with my plan to mix business travel and play that I began to feel like I had invented the concept. I asked my parents, who both worked when I was growing up, if their business trips involved all business or if there were any occasions when they were tempted to take a touch of time for themselves, away from my brother and me. 
"Oh, you have no clue," my mother answered. "You know what a train commute is like? People might complain about it, but they have 40 minutes of peace and quiet, so they secretly love it. Well, how much better is a couple of day business trip?" She paused. "There's not a multiplier large enough."
I took that as a yes. 
Later, I posed the same question to my father, who laughed ruefully. "This is going to blow my cover," he said, "I'm supposed to be a hard-working guy." Trained in economics, my father said that when he began his career, 10 to 20 percent of his trips constituted fun. As my brother and I got larger and lippier, that proportion followed a linear trajectory upward, eventually surpassing 50 percent. 
Scott Gober, a guy I grew up with in Armonk, had parents who were teachers and didn't travel for business. But these days he goes on the road for work as much as anyone I know, up to 15 times a year, an average of three days each, to just about every corner of the globe. 
But he forewarned me that the freedom was illusory and that the novelty of business travel waned. "It's all about people who try to do things they used to do when they were single but they aren't single so they can't," he said. "Plus they're too tired." 
I was not tired but instead refreshed when I woke up in my friend's home. Then, when I came down to the kitchen there was a surprise in the form of a familiar sight spilling Cheerios and milk on the kitchen table. Plans had shifted and my friend had custody of his daughter for much of the weekend. 
After sponging up the table, we took her on a walk, which unfolded at typical 2-year-old pace (underwater speed) as she stooped to examine every last rock and leaf. We ate dinner out at her favorite chicken-finger place, and I kept her entertained by turning a napkin into a hat, a trick I have turned into a science. The girl was adorable and wonderful, but still two. My friend and I were both in bed by 10, too tired to care that there were coyotes rustling in the woods outside the bedroom window. 
In terms of a respite from family life, I may have done better staying with those Carmelite nuns. 
Mr. Gober said that such an experience is typical, that he has learned his lesson and now considers himself a "mercenary," flying in for meetings then flying right out. That's one line of thought. But apparently not all business travelers with children agree. As my mother advised: "If at first you don't succeed, try, try again." 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); COUNTIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); MOUNTAINS (73%); CITY LIFE (53%); CITIES (53%) Families and Family Life

PERSON: Marek Fuchs

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (93%); ALPS (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



628 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: The World -- Losing Ground; 
China's Leaders Manage Class Conflict Carefully

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
IF Karl Marx were alive today, Guangdong might be his Manchester.
 Like England's 19th century industrial center, 21st century Guangdong, China's southern commercial hub, is the world's factory. 
 And like Manchester, Guangdong is also creating a stark divide between labor and capital, a split that once became the ideological basis for revolutions around the world, including China's own.
Tens of millions of industrial workers are struggling toward basic rights, to earn enough to send their children to school, for laws that would allow them to bargain collectively. And they are losing. 
"If Marx could see Guangdong today he would die of anger," says Dai Jianzhong, a labor relations expert at the Beijing Academy of Social Science. "From that perspective, China is speeding in reverse."
Even more than England or the United States in their industrializing heydays, China's growth relies on cheap labor. The foreign-invested factories here, including production centers for most multinational companies, depend on a flexible work force that actually grows cheaper by the year.
Guangdong has grown by more than 10 percent annually for the past decade. But its factory workers, mostly migrants from the interior, earn no more today than they did in 1993, several Chinese studies have found. The average wage of $50 to $70 a month also buys less today than it did in the early 1990's, meaning workers are losing ground even as China enjoys one of the longest and most robust expansions in modern history.
This is partly a paradox of globalization. China has attracted more foreign investment by far than any other developing country, nearly $500 billion since it began internationalizing its economy. But it continues to draw capital essentially because it is willing to rent workers for falling returns.
The free-market economic policies have not left China worse off on the whole. They have lifted it out of the ranks of the world's poorest countries, created a nascent middle class of service industry workers in the big cities, and made China the largest Asian exporter to the United States. 
But China is living through a Gilded Age of inequality, whose benefits are not trickling down to the 700 million or 800 million rural residents who live off the land or flock to the cities for factory or construction jobs. 
The situation has given rise to a new group of Marxist critics who call themselves China's new left. Wang Hui, a new left thinker, published a book late last year, titled "China's New Order," attacking China's leaders for using "state interference and even violence" to enforce its vision of international capitalism. He says the leaders have colonized their own citizens.
Not surprisingly, Chinese officials do not put it that way, and few here believe that China needs another Marxist revolution. Nor would Communist Party officials say that democracy, rather than an authoritarian political system, is needed to bring greater social justice to China. 
Still, Communist leaders increasingly seem convinced that neither economic growth nor China's tattered legacy of socialist laws will prevent social unrest, even violent upheaval of the kind that helped bring the party to power in 1949.
President Hu Jintao and Wen Jiabao, the prime minister, have vowed to raise peasant incomes and stop the most egregious abuse of workers. Executives of multinational corporations say they have a harder time getting appointments with Mr. Wen and Mr. Hu than they did in the past. 
"Inequality these days is too stark to be ignored," says Kang Xiaoguang, a leading political analyst in Beijing. "The party has begun to recognize that its legitimacy cannot come from economic reform as such. It needs to stress fairness and justice."
Doubts remain, though, whether Mr. Hu and Mr. Wen have the power, or desire, to do much about it. The capitalist road China has traveled since the latter years of Deng Xiaoping's rule in the early 1990's is Darwinian by the historical standards of the United States, England -- even East Asia. 
The British working class first got the right to vote in the 1880's, amid England's industrialization. American industrial unions trace their roots to the early 20th century, when hazardous work conditions and sweatshop wages were a dominant feature of urban life. Almost all of China's neighbors allowed more leeway for union activity than China does, though they were also notorious in the 1970's and 1980's for the sort of abuses common in China today.
But the leaders have single-mindedly embraced growth to finance the enormous government bureaucracy, absorb huge unemployment, and help state-run banks avoid collapse. Worker rights and environmental protection are seen as threats to investment. "The government views many social problems as something the next generation can solve, when China is wealthier," says Mr. Dai, the labor expert. "The problem is that the longer we wait, the greater the burden."
In addition, many lower-level officials participate in exploiting the workers. State-financed construction projects often fail to pay the workers they hire. The reason, it is assumed, is that bureaucrats and favored businessmen pocket the money. Many coal mines do not install safety equipment, and the death toll in accidents has been well in excess of 5,000 annually. (China in 2003 produced about 40 percent more coal than the United States but had at least 130 times more mining fatalities.)
The foreign-financed export sector is less dangerous. But the factories that produce the world's goods operate on marathon 12-hour shifts, rarely pausing on Sundays. Workers live in crowded dormitories with communal bathrooms that lack hot water in winter or fans in summer. 
Guangdong legally requires a 40-hour workweek, a minimum wage, before overtime, of about $72 a month, as well as medical insurance and pension plans. But factory managers said in interviews over the past year that the only people who care about these standards are managers for foreign companies. And these people, factory bosses say, are easily deceived. 
When workers demand their rights, they are slapped down. The state-controlled national union requires that all factories with 100 employees or more open a branch. But in most cases this is never done. Independent unions are treated as subversive.
Despite sporadic attention to these concerns, most intellectuals and government officials long ago embraced the market, and the invisible hand ofsupply and demand, as the solution to China's sweatshop problem. 
In a recent essay in Southern Breeze magazine, Xue Zhaofeng, an economist, criticized foreigners for trying to impose "one size fits all" labor standards on China. "Even if they don't have ulterior motives in forcing this on China, interfering with the market in this way is useless," he wrote.
But after 25 years of economic reform, China probably needs no more convincing about what markets can do. The question it now faces is what they cannot do.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chinese migrant workers on a break at a building site in Beijing. China is living through a Gilded Age of inequality. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); TRENDS (88%); HISTORY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (71%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (57%); HU JINTAO (57%) Hu Jintao; Wen Jiabao; Joseph Kahn

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (90%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%) SOUTH CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



629 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Brooklyn, the Borough That Begs for Nothing

BYLINE:  By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
IN 1884, when major league baseball came to Brooklyn, it could be said that Brooklyn, even then jockeying for attention in the shadow of Manhattan, needed the team more than the team needed Brooklyn. 
 That was undeniable in 1957, when the last Dodgers home game was played before only 6,702 paying spectators, Gladys Gooding (the only person to play for the Dodgers, the Knicks and the Rangers) pounded out "Auld Lang Syne" on the Ebbets Field organ, and the Dodgers, like their fans before them, fled for greener pastures. 
 But now, nearly 50 years later, you could make the case that the Nets need Brooklyn more than Brooklyn needs the Nets. 
Last week, the developer Bruce C. Ratner agreed to pay $300 million for the nomadic basketball team (they started as the Americans in Teaneck, N.J., moved to Long Island and then jumped around a bit more before heading back to New Jersey and the Meadowlands). 
His proposals to install them in a glorious arena designed by Frank Gehry and to rename them not the New York Nets but the Brooklyn Nets (assuming the team keeps the Nets name) taken together produce a full-throated affirmation that "Brooklyn Is Back." 
But Brooklyn was back a long time ago. 
In the mid-1950's, with La Guardia and Idlewild (now Kennedy) having supplanted Floyd Bennett Field, and The Eagle having folded, Brooklyn was often derided as the nation's largest city without an airport, a daily newspaper or a regular left fielder (there seemed to be a new one every season). 
But it did have a major league baseball team (the football Dodgers had disappeared by the late 1940's, Anthony Sogluizzo, a librarian at the Brooklyn Public Library, is one of the few to recall), and, as Michael Shapiro wrote in "The Last Good Season: Brooklyn, the Dodgers, and Their Final Pennant Race Together" (Doubleday, 2003), the Brooklyn Dodgers "were the most local team in baseball."
"They did not represent a city, as did each of the other 15 major league teams," he said. "They represented part of a city." 
Despite the pretensions, (a sign at the foot of the Brooklyn Bridge welcomed visitors to "the fourth-largest city in America"), Brooklyn had been subsumed into New York City way back in 1898, and, besides the iconic bridge (called the Brooklyn Bridge because it went there from Manhattan), the borough had largely been defined by the underdog Dodgers, whose enduring contribution to the sport and the nation was their gumption (and marketing savvy) in hiring Jackie Robinson and integrating major league baseball. 
But their departure, while traumatic, was less a cause of Brooklyn's decline than a symptom. After World War II , the arrival of blacks and Puerto Ricans in what were euphemistically called "changing neighborhoods" precipitated white flight along the highways that Robert Moses built to suddenly affordable and accessible dream houses.
But a half-century later, all over the country arenas and stadiums have helped to revitalize downtowns, if only temporarily. And it is no small vindication for die-hard Brooklyn Dodger fans that the new basketball arena would be built on the very site in downtown Brooklyn where the Dodgers had proposed to build their new stadium, but were thwarted by the Robert Moses vision of highways to heavenly Long Island and the other suburbs. 
"That whole experiment -- white flight to the suburbs -- really did not work out," said the filmmaker Spike Lee, who grew up in Brooklyn and is a legendary Knicks fan. "All the things they ran away from followed them to the suburbs."
Mr. Shapiro concurred. "What you have here is a closing of the circle," he said. 
The pool of potential fans (2.4 million people live in Brooklyn alone), and the access to mass transit would benefit the Nets. But what could the Nets do for Brooklyn? 
A lot, if tickets (and souvenirs and snacks) are affordable, if the team wins or, like the Dodgers, are lovable losers. If Mr. Gehry's arena becomes a destination in itself, it could bring with it redevelopment (and jobs and affordable housing) to the surrounding area. (Referring to another Gehry landmark, the Guggenheim Museum in northern Spain, the Brooklyn-born journalist Pete Hamill said: "Bilbao is kind of the Newark of Spain, and that one building made it a tourist attraction.") 
FOR all the promise of economic benefits, though, the bigger payoff of a major league franchise is likely to be intangible, the communal rooting for a professional team playing the city game (especially against the Knicks, from Manhattan) and congregating, as Mr. Shapiro said, to fulfill "a vague and powerful need: the company of one another not as friends but as strangers." 
Even the Heartland Institute, a libertarian research group that opposes lavish public subsidies to lure teams, acknowledges: "Having a professional sports franchise in town gives fans something to talk about at work and homes, a place to go for wholesome family entertainment and a certain amount of pride in one's hometown." 
"What this is," said Marty Markowitz, the proud Brooklyn borough president, "is the last nail in the coffin for Brooklyn being all about fires and crime. It's over."
Spike Lee said he would continue to root for the Knicks, but maintained that the Brooklyn Nets would be an asset to the borough and to the hundreds of thousands of Brooklynites who could walk to the arena for basketball games, concerts and other events. Mr. Lee, who was born the year the last major league team left Brooklyn, had one suggestion, though. "I hope they change the name to the Dodgers," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the impact of professional sports on Brooklyn misspelled the name of the organist who used to play for the Dodgers. She was Gladys Goodding, not Gooding. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1960, Ebbets Field was demolished, three years after the Dodgers left for Los Angeles. Now will there be a basketball stadium? (Photo by Robert Walker/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (69%); WORLD WAR II (63%); LIBRARIES (62%) Basketball; Baseball; Ebbets Field (Brooklyn); Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%) New Jersey Nets ; Brooklyn Dodgers (Defunct Team) 

PERSON: Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



630 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 2; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Take to the Streets? It Worked for Them 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON

 BODY:
IT took more than a year and a move to Detroit. But Lisa Rosevear finally has a job.
 And that means the three creators of WeWantWork, a marketing campaign by and for a group of 43 jobless New Yorkers, are all gainfully employed at last, as are 27 other members of the group. 
 You may remember the WeWantWork campaign. A group of white-collar types, who had been unemployed for months started it back in September 2002. Tired of sitting at home answering the few help-wanted ads that seemed suitable, they decided to turn things around by advertising their very available selves, using guerrilla marketing, which emphasizes direct contact with those you're trying to reach. 
The people who joined agreed to post their resumes on the group's Web site, WeWantWork.com, and to participate in the group's marketing events -- dressing up in business suits under placards saying "We Want Work," for example, and handing out fliers on Manhattan street corners.
Their motto: "We could be your most motivated employees!"
At the time, employment prospects in the city were pretty bleak; the jobless rate hit 8.3 percent in October 2002 and stayed at least that high for six months.
As an illustration of stubbornly high unemployment, the WeWantWork campaign was irresistible to reporters, and the group turned up in many newspapers, as well as on television and radio shows in the United States and overseas. The group also inspired similar self-help efforts in other cities, including Boston. Marc Seago, 34, one of WeWantWork's organizers, said he believed the group even had European imitators. 
In addition to the 30 members who have found jobs, Mr. Seago said, some of the remaining 13 have found consulting or freelance work, though they are still looking for full-time jobs. The site is still online, but the original group did not accept new members, a decision it now regrets.
The group members' success in finding jobs may be partly attributable to the improving economy, though in New York City that improvement has been slow.
The city unemployment rate, which was edging down, turned back up to 7.9 percent seasonally adjusted last month, according to figures released by the state Department of Labor last week.
There was an uptick in employment in the city in late 2003, according to the city comptroller's office, but there were still 24,200 fewer jobs in the five boroughs in November than a year earlier.
So perhaps it is not surprising that many of the group's members moved. One went as far as Australia, Mr. Seago said.
The third organizer, Emily Malatesta, 36, found a marketing job in Washington late in 2002. Leaving New York "was not necessarily my first choice," she said recently, "but you do what you have to do." 
Her success at finding a new job was not directly related to WeWantWork, Ms. Malatesta said. Rather, she got the lead that panned out by going to a trade show that she used to attend when she was employed.
But the campaign helped her emotionally and mentally, she said, by giving her something positive to do and to talk about when she went on interviews. Mr. Seago said that his involvement in WeWantWork actually opened doors for him, because people were so intrigued by the group. 
At one interview, he recalled, he spent an hour talking about a potential consulting job involving a corporate newsletter for a financial firm and the other discussing WeWantWork. He got the newsletter job, which eventually turned into a full-time position as marketing director.
"What's actually most interesting is that I don't have financial experience," Mr. Seago said. But he added that one reason the firm was willing to take a chance on him was because WeWantWork "shows initiative, and that you can actually produce something." 
WeWantWork led directly to a new job for Ms. Rosevear, 36, but in an offbeat way. She had worked at Hill & Knowlton, a big public relations firm, representing technology companies -- her resume lists Microsoft, Olympus and Motorola, among others -- and was laid off shortly after 9/11. Her boss eventually left, too, and the two lost touch.
But last year, the former boss, Jeanne-Marie Baron, was chatting with an acquaintance in New York, who asked if she had been reading about Ms. Rosevear's exploits with WeWantWork. That prompted Ms. Baron to track down Ms. Rosevear and offer her a job at a publicity firm that she and a partner had started in Detroit.
"She recruited me to come in and work with her -- the person who had to lay me off," Ms. Rosevear said. "It feels good."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 26, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the front page of the special expanded Job Market section yesterday carried incorrect continuation page numbers for four articles. "A Rosier Picture for Hiring" continued on Page 6; "Changing Careers" on Page 4; "Honing Your Skills" on Page 4; and "Take to the Streets?" on Page 3. The Times regrets the inconvenience to readers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lisa Rosevear, now vice president of Eaton Baron Communications in Detroit. (Photo by Andrew Sacks for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Lisa Rosevear carried a "WeWantWork" placard in New York in 2002. (Photo by Michael Nagle/The New York Times)(pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (66%) Labor; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; Labor

PERSON: Leslie Eaton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



631 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 5; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: A Rosier Picture For Hiring 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
LISTING the parts of the economy that were creating job opportunities was not particularly hard for much of the last few years. The list began with health care, real estate and some government agencies. It often ended there, too.
 But the roaring economic growth of late 2003 has finally brought some company for those industries, even if overall job growth remains weak. Wood manufacturers, electronics and appliance stores, trucking companies, movie studios and architectural and engineering firms all added to their payrolls during the last six months of 2003, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
 Merrill Lynch, which has cut thousands of positions since 2000, plans to increase its ranks of financial advisers by 650 this year. Lockheed Martin, the big military contractor, has been looking for engineers in Georgia, Minnesota and elsewhere.
Even Web sites are emerging from the hangover caused by the dot-com bubble. They added a couple of thousand employees in late 2003; in contrast, they cut their work force by almost 20,000 people, or 40 percent, in 2001 and 2002. Other sectors that were making deep cuts in 2001 and 2002, like computer manufacturing and telecommunications, are still shedding workers but at a slower rate than they were.
Much of the new hiring has been in a crescent that stretches roughly from the Pacific Northwest down through California and eastward to Texas, said Mark Zandi, the chief economist of Economy.com, a research company. 
Military spending has created work in San Antonio and in long-suffering Tacoma, Wash. A jump in trade, as growth of the global economy picks up, has benefited Pacific ports. Patchwork increases in technology spending have helped rekindle growth in employment in Austin, Tex., and San Diego.
Elsewhere, the rebound of domestic tourism and the continued growth of gambling have once again made boom towns of Las Vegas, Atlantic City and Reno, Nev. Each ranked in the top six on the list of metropolitan areas with the strongest job growth between May and November 2003, the last month for which the federal government has released local statistics. A handful of Florida areas, including Orlando, Sarasota and West Palm Beach, also made the top 50.
For workers who are hoping for pay increases in their current jobs, instead of new jobs as blackjack dealers, nurses or Wall Street traders, the trends are less encouraging. Although employment has grown for each of the last five months, ending the longest streak of job loss since the Great Depression, the labor market remains weak.
The economy added 278,000 jobs between July and December after having lost about 2.7 million jobs from early 2001 to last summer, the Bureau of Labor Statistics says. Many economists say that the government is probably underestimating recent job growth, but no one is suggesting that employment is anywhere near its peak.
Knowing that they still have the upper hand, companies have become less willing to increase salaries than they were as recently as the autumn of 2003. For most middle- and lower-income workers, hourly pay appears to be growing roughly at the rate of inflation, according to government statistics. 
The average hourly wage for production and nonsupervisory workers -- a government category that covers roughly four-fifths of the work force -- rose 2 percent last year, while the inflation rate was 1.9 percent.
Pay is increasing more quickly for upper-income workers, causing inequality to rise in ways it has not since the early 1990's, economists say. 
The cost of health care is also weighing on pay, as some companies are telling workers that as a condition for continuing to cover health costs, they will freeze pay or lift it only slightly. Health-insurance premiums jumped 13.9 percent last year, after rising more than 10 percent in 2001 and 2002, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation
"There's now a clear trade-off that's occurring," Mr. Zandi said. "Workers are willing to give up cash for health care."
Of course, all of the new health-care spending -- as Americans get older and medical research leads to exciting but expensive new treatments -- continues to create employment. Job growth at hospitals, doctors' offices, home health-care companies and other medical services has slowed in recent months, but it is still increasing by more than 10,000 a month, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which adjusts its numbers to account for normal seasonal variations. 
Almost one out of every nine jobs in the United States is now in health care, compared with one in 12 at the start of the 90's. The good news for job seekers, limited as it still may be, is that there are finally some other places to look.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 26, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the front page of the special expanded Job Market section yesterday carried incorrect continuation page numbers for four articles. "A Rosier Picture for Hiring" continued on Page 6; "Changing Careers" on Page 4; "Honing Your Skills" on Page 4; and "Take to the Streets?" on Page 3. The Times regrets the inconvenience to readers.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Pointing the Way Toward Recovery"Some industries with strong job growth around the country. Mass transit and ground transportationAnnualized growth, May to Nov. '03: 5.0% Building and gardening storesAnnualized growth, May to Nov. '03: 3.6 Heavy and civil engineering constructionAnnualized growth, May to Nov. '03: 3.4 Health and personal care storesAnnualized growth, May to Nov. '03: 2.5 Securities and commodities tradingAnnualized growth, May to Nov. '03: 2.5 Warehousing and storageAnnualized growth, May to Nov. '03: 1.8 Restaurants and barsAnnualized growth, May to Nov. '03: 1.5 (Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics, Economy.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (74%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (71%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (71%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (71%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); RANKINGS (64%); TRUCKING (56%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (50%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%) Bureau of Labor Statistics

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (77%); TACOMA, WA, USA (69%); RENO, NV, USA (68%) TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Pacific Northwestern States (US); California; Texas

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



632 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 2141 words

HEADLINE: On Transit Map, All Roads Lead to Politics 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
Not since a legendary power broker named Robert Moses sketched his plans for the region's elaborate system of bridges and highways has New York City stood on the brink of so much change to its haggard transportation network.
 After decades of neglect and deadlock, politicians and planners have begun to lay out a grand vision for the city's steel skeleton of subways and commuter trains, one that offers relief to residents of Manhattan's East Side, spurs growth on the far west, links Lower Manhattan to the region's airports and frees thousands of Long Island commuters from having to double back on their routes. 
 The plans would double the number of trains for New Jersey commuters heading into Midtown, create a transit hub in Lower Manhattan and construct a new Pennsylvania Station. A long-running proposal to dig a rail freight tunnel under New York harbor is also vying for federal money, spurred by worries of a terrorist attack on the George Washington Bridge.
"This is like a moon shot," said Peter Kalikow, chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, about the sudden confluence of blueprints. "The planets are lined up right. We can't let this opportunity drop." 
But will this giant leap for New York City's overburdened infrastructure really happen? 
The vision is expensive, some $50 billion for all its parts. Few believe there is enough money to go around, and everyone has a favorite. So a bare-knuckled political battle is expected in the coming year, as the transportation authority issues its new capital plan and Congress moves to reauthorize a mammoth federal transportation bill. The outcome could determine what is built and is not.
"It's definitely Darwinian," said Gene Russianoff, a lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, a transit advocacy group. "It's definitely survival of the fittest." 
Over the last 60 years, for a host of reasons, almost nothing significant has been done to expand the city's transit system. In a last paroxysm of spending before the fiscal crises of the 1970's, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller built a rail tunnel under the East River at 63rd Street and segments of a subway line under Second Avenue before financing dried up.
By the early 1980's, the subway and commuter rail systems were in steep decline. Authorities realized that drastic measures were needed. A capital plan was issued to pay for restoration, but expansion had to wait. 
"You couldn't have a conversation about expanding the capacity of the system," said Robert Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban policy group. "The system was collapsing."
The restoration of the system remained the focus throughout most of the 1990's. In 1996, however, Gov. George E. Pataki ordered the transportation authority, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the city to begin studying projects that would lead to a seamless transportation network in metropolitan New York, permitting convenient travel through the entire region. 
It soon became apparent, however, that politics would play a role in setting priorities. In what was widely seen as a nod to their suburban political bases, former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and later Mr. Pataki locked onto East Side Access, a proposal to build a connector at Grand Central Terminal for the Long Island Rail Road that would allow commuters easier access to the East Side of Manhattan. With their support, East Side Access quickly became the leading megaproject. 
Former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani elbowed his way into that debate with a plan to connect the subway to La Guardia Airport, a benefit for business travelers and his political base in Queens. 
And the abandoned Second Avenue subway found a powerful champion in Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who represents the Lower East Side. Mr. Silver vowed to hold up the state budget unless the Pataki administration committed to building the entire length of the project, as opposed to a small segment that was initially favored.
Eventually, all three projects, including a commitment to the full length of the Second Avenue subway, wound their way into the transportation authority's capital plan for 2000 to 2004, which had a record outlay of $19.5 billion.
As those proposals were being made, the Port Authority, after decades of false starts, began work on a rail link to Kennedy International Airport. The difference this time was a plan to use airport passenger fees to help pay for the AirTrain, which connects the airport to subway and Long Island Rail Road lines. 
But then came the terrorist attack on Sept. 11, 2001. Rather than be content with simply rebuilding Lower Manhattan, politicians argued that the attack represented a rare opportunity to start anew and fix longstanding problems. 
John E. Zuccotti, chairman of Brookfield Financial Properties, the largest downtown landlord, began promoting a "super shuttle" commuter rail that would connect Lower Manhattan to Kennedy Airport and the suburbs of Long Island. Under the plan, trains would use the tunnel for the A and C subway lines to go under the East River, requiring some rerouting and displacing tens of thousands of subway riders, but the alternative was a new tunnel, which could take decades and billions more dollars.
State and city officials eventually went to Washington with a wish list of more than a dozen projects, including the downtown commuter rail. Total price tag: $7.5 billion. 
However, the package of transportation aid they received was barely half of what they wanted. Federal officials balked at several of the projects that clearly had little to do with Sept. 11. But they left the state to decide which projects to finance with the $4.55 billion award. 
Gov. Pataki settled on three major initiatives: a grand hub centered on the rebuilt PATH station, the Fulton Street Transit Center and a revamping of the South Ferry subway terminal. He also approved an array of smaller ideas. A degree of consensus had coalesced around the big projects. More importantly, they were reasonably priced.
Notably absent from the list, however, was airport access. Its price, anywhere from $2 billion to more than $5 billion depending on the plan, made it prohibitive. Transportation groups also raised questions about how many riders it would serve. 
With all the momentum in Lower Manhattan, proponents of the Second Avenue subway and East Side Access began fretting that their projects might be left behind. Strictly speaking, the downtown projects did not threaten theirs because they sprang from the $21 billion earmarked for post-9/11 relief. The other big-ticket projects depended on the federal transportation bill, reauthorized every six years. But advocates worried that without a unified voice, New York City would run into trouble.
Mr. Kalikow traveled to Washington to seek reassurances from important members of Congress and reiterate that East Side Access and the Second Avenue subway remained the top priorities.
"Of course they know they gave us $21 billion,and $5 billion was for transportation due to 9/11," he said. "But because we followed their guidelines about our downtown projects, we think they will have no effect on what we will or will not get on the other projects." 
But the playing field was becoming more cluttered. With the city's pursuit of the 2012 Olympics, an old proposal thrust its way to the forefront under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Deputy Mayor Daniel Doctoroff, in charge of economic development and the Olympic bid, proposed extending the No. 7 subway line from Times Square to 34th Street and 11th Avenue, where a new Olympic stadium -- and a possible home for the New York Jets -- may be built. 
"On the far west side, you have a unique opportunity," Mr. Doctoroff said. "That opportunity is to, in effect, fund a project out of the incremental revenues when you extend mass transit into more or less undeveloped territory. That opportunity doesn't really exist anywhere else." 
Knowing he faced a battle if he took money from the other projects, Mr. Doctoroff suggested that the city, rather than the authority, pay for the $1.2 billion project entirely, issuing bonds that would be paid back with revenues from rising property values in the neighborhood. But after questions about the plan's feasibility, the city is now interviewing investment banks for other ideas.
What makes the No. 7 extension especially threatening to some is its drastically reduced timetable. For the line to be ready in time for the Olympics, work needs to start in 2005. Advocates of other projects worry that Mr. Doctoroff's alternative financing scheme will not materialize. 
"They haven't announced their funding plan," said Representative Jerrold L. Nadler, whose district includes parts of Manhattan and Brooklyn. "Until they do, we can't analyze it."
For 20 years, Mr. Nadler has been pushing a proposal to build a rail freight tunnel under New York Harbor, linking New Jersey to Brooklyn. He has commissioned a series of studies, wresting financing out of Congress. As his project has readied for construction, he has watched as other projects that have not been similarly scrutinized pushed their way to the front.
For proponents of the Second Avenue subway, worry turned to alarm in November when the Partnership for New York City, a leading business group, released a report that prioritized transit options according to economic development benefits. Under the group's analysis, the Lower Manhattan transit hub, the new Pennsylvania Station at the Farley Post Office site and the No. 7 line extension would provide the most return. In contrast, the report said the Second Avenue subway, in its full form, would not be worth its price. 
"Unless we set a few priorities and relatively short-term priorities and allocate enough money to actually get them done, you'll have lots of planning and little getting done," said Kathryn S. Wylde, the partnership's president.
In response, the coalition behind the Second Avenue subway mobilized, releasing a study at a news conference on the steps of City Hall saying that the partnership's methodology was flawed and that the economic benefits for the Second Avenue subway were much greater. 
The La Guardia proposal fell off the radar screen after its principal backer, Mr. Giuliani, exited the scene. But the Lower Manhattan commuter rail proposal, long seen as a pipe dream, is re-emerging. 
Senator Charles E. Schumer pushed the idea during a December speech and insisted that the project could be paid for out of the city's post-Sept.11 money. A few weeks later, Gov. Pataki announced in his State of the State address that he would soon unveil four options for the airport rail link and select a final design in April.
M.T.A. officials say they believe a mixture of post-Sept. 11 and transportation authority money would help pay for the project, but because the timeline for the project is further down the road, it should not interfere with other plans. Others, however, doubt it will be so simple.
Still another project agitating for attention is a decade-old New Jersey Transit proposal for a new rail tunnel under the Hudson River into Midtown, known as Access to the Region's Core. If transportation decisions were truly made on a regional basis, advocates said, the project would be at the top of the list because New Jersey is the city's fastest-growing commuter market. But the $4.5 billion project has largely been labeled a New Jersey issue. 
Much of the jockeying that is going on now stems from paranoia, advocates from several groups said. Confusion reigns over which projects are actually in danger. The three Lower Manhattan projects -- PATH, South Ferry and the transit center -- clearly have their financing. After delays, the new Pennsylvania Station should also finally go forward with money already earmarked for it. 
Significant money has already been spent on preliminary construction for East Side Access, although the need to clean up toxic areas of the Sunnyside rail yard in Queens may cause delays. Years of work have gone into securing recommended status from the Federal Transit Administration for both Second Avenue and East Side Access.
But the reality is that the last M.T.A. capital plan was paid for in large part by issuing bonds that are projected to cause yawning deficits in coming years. It is unclear how much more debt the authority can afford to issue for its new plan, which is expected to exceed $20 billion. On top of the new projects, the authority also needs to make sure that it continues to maintain the existing system. Some have pushed for reinstating the commuter tax, charging tolls on the East River bridges, raising the statewide gas tax or closing various tax loopholes.
"We need to go find the money," said Mr. Yaro, of the Regional Plan Association. "Our grandparents did this. We need to do it again."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Donald Dowler, a maintenance worker, in the Second Avenue subway line started in the 1970's, before the city ran out of money for the project. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times); Robert Moses, the master planner of the state's parks and parkways, also directed the construction of 13 major bridges and 2 major tunnels. (pg. 30) Chart/Map: "A Patchwork of Transportation Projects"Nearly $50 billion in transportation projects are on the table or under way. Here are some of the largest, with circles showing estimated cost in billions of dollars. Access to the Region's CoreNew commuter rail tunnel under the Hudson River into Penn Station.: $4.5 No. 7 Subway ExtensionExtension of the No. 7 line from Times Square to 34th St. and 11th Ave.: $1.2 Second Avenue SubwaySubway line along Second Ave. under the length of Manhattan.: $16.8 billion East Side AccessConnection of the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal.: $6.3 Farley Post OfficeNew Pennsylvania Station where the post office currently is.: $1 West Street TunnelFour lanes of rebuilt roadway buried beside the World Trade Center.: $0.9 South Ferry TerminalReplacement of the antiquated South Ferry subway station.: $0.4 New PATH StationRestored PATH station at the World Trade Center and connection to subway lines as part of a Lower Manhattan transportation hub.: $2 Fulton Street Transit CenterRevamped Fulton Street subway complex.: $0.8 Cross-Harbor Rail Freight TunnelRail freight connection under New York Harbor between Brooklyn and New Jersey or Staten Island.: $7 Lower Manhattan Airport AccessRail link connecting Lower Manhattan to Kennedy Airport.: $2 to $5 AirTrain to JFK AirportLight rail link connecting subway and railroad lines to Kennedy Airport.: $2 Locations of projects are approximate (Sources by Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Partnership for New York City; Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; New York City Economic Development Corporation)(pg. 29) Map of New York City highlighting transportation projects. (Drawing by James Bronzan and William McNulty/The New York Times)(pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); TRAINS (77%); AIRLINES (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); RAIL FREIGHT (71%); TERRORISM (67%); OLYMPICS (59%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) Transit Systems; Subways ; Stations and Terminals (Passenger); Bridges and Tunnels; Terrorism; Olympic Games (2012); Finances; Area Planning and Renewal; Railroads; Transit Systems; Airports; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%)

PERSON: Michael Luo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



633 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Revival in New York? Well, That Depends 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD STAMLER

 BODY:
STATISTICALLY the job picture in the New York area is brightening, but when it comes to the faces behind the figures the outlook is as varied as, well, New Yorkers.
 For Steve Minucci, 42, of New Fairfield, Conn., the skies are turning sunny. He lost his advertising and marketing job at Reader's Digest in a cutback last year, but recently found a job with Golf Digest magazine, although "the publishing industry is getting smaller and smaller," as he put it. 
 Derek Burnham, 37, of Brooklyn is another success story. He works at the new Mandarin Oriental in the Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle, which has a staff of about 400, all of them recently hired, said Sonia Rendigs, a spokeswoman for the hotel. 
Mr. Burnham, a houseman, said that his experience at another luxury hotel in his native Barbados "counted for a lot" in his hiring, something that Ms. Rendigs confirmed. She added that his "ability to relate to people" was also very important. 
But for others it seems the New York job market is under a permafrost that has yet to thaw. That's because the recovery of the local economy still seems somewhat tentative. Despite statistics indicating a decreasing rate of unemployment in the Greater New York area -- from 6.6 percent at the beginning of last year to 5.8 percent as of this past November, not seasonally adjusted -- some key industries,including financial services, actually suffered job losses for the period. Moreover, according to the most recent New York State figures, released last week, unemployment in the city proper actually increased to 7.9 percent last month from 7.7 percent in November, seasonally adjusted.
It's no surprise, then, that inconsistencies and contradictions in hiring abound, according to interviews with employers, employees and union officials.
Gena Casciano, 38, of Manhattan, for example, a marketing executive who fell victim to an American Express layoff in 2002 , has yet to find a new job. Instead, she just sees "a lot of people applying for the same jobs." And that is true not only in fields like the marketing and publishing industries, which are still shedding workers, according to statistics; it is also the case in other industries that are thought to be improving, like the leisure and hospitality industry.
That industry's revival has been widely heralded as an indicator of the region's resurgence. A gain in the industry's employment of 2.3 percent -- more than 15,000 jobs -- was posted for the metropolitan area for the 12 months ended in November, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. And talk of new restaurant and hotel openings has some industry pundits and food critics all abuzz.
But many in the trade are not quite so sanguine. In the hotel industry, despite recent improvement, increases in occupancy rates are anemic and room rates are still far below what they used to be. Indeed, preliminary figures released by NYC & Company, the city's visitors bureau, indicate a hotel occupancy rate for 2003 of only 76.2 percent, slightly higher than that in 2002 but far short of the 84.6 percent rate recorded in 2000. And the average cost of a room was also much lower, $191 as opposed to $237.
Moreover, although a spate of new hotels has recently opened, and total hiring is up, "we still have about 1,500 members looking for jobs right now," said John Turchiano, a spokesman for the New York Hotel Trades Council, largely as a result of the closing of a number of established properties, among them the Regent on Wall Street and The Empire Hotel on Broadway, both of which were shuttered earlier this month. 
E. Charles Hunt, the executive vice president of the Greater New York City chapter of the New York State Restaurant Association, said, "Business may have increased, but profits haven't." Constant turnover means there are always jobs, he added, but usually "at the bottom of the ladder."
Tracy J. Nieporent, a partner in the Myriad Restaurant Group, which operates Nobu and the Tribeca Grill, among others, concurs. "Business is picking up," he said, "but in terms of hiring, things are not really different from what they were before."
That means that every day dozens of people are still leaving resumes at restaurants, hoping to be hired as waiters and waitresses, according to John Newman, 33, of Brooklyn, who is a waiter at Sushi Samba in Greenwich Village. He said that very few of these people were ever hired. He attributed his own success in obtaining work to his experience at other restaurants and to the fact he was referred by a friend.
"When you have to go around and hit the pavement it's hard," he said, "even with a good resume. Employers like referrals."
Of course, when searching for work, determination also helps. Take the case of Sara DiBenedetto, 23, who lives in Astoria, Queens. Originally from Buffalo, she came to New York in 2002 after graduating from the State University of New York College at Geneseo, her heart set on working in the nonprofit sector. Encompassing everything from hospitals and medical centers to libraries, zoos and local antipoverty groups, nonprofits employed more than 600,000 people in New York City alone during 2002, according to the New York State Department of Labor. That's 30,000 more than in 2000.
But finding and keeping a job wasn't that straightforward. A position with City Harvest fell victim to budgetary cuts after only a few months. It then took her a while to get her present job as assistant to Fran Barrett, the executive director of the Community Resource Exchange, an agency that assists nonprofit groups in the city. 
According to Ms. Barrett, groups that serve the poor are still feeling the impact of decreased public and private support, even in an improving economy. That means "that we are seeing more part-time positions and salaries that are flat," she said. 
Ms. DiBenedetto credits hard work for her success in finding a job. She said she "hit the papers" and the Internet and "sent out resumes everywhere." She also engaged in networking. In fact, networking is what got her to Ms. Barrett. A friend who had seen the position listed online told her about it. 
"If you want to get a job," she said, "you have to let everyone know you're looking." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); LODGING (89%); STATISTICS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (88%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); PUBLISHING (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); LABOR UNIONS (64%) Labor; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; Labor

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%)

PERSON: Bernard Stamler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); BARBADOS (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



634 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 6; Job Market; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Resumes That Make It Happen 

BYLINE:  By ABBY ELLIN

 BODY:
THE resume, career counselors say, is one of the most vital elements to the job search, especially when so many people are looking for work and applicants are lined up for every opening. 
 Resumes, they say, should be clear, in a traditional, plain-vanilla format: name at the top; a summary of one or two sentences; then a succinct review of employers and jobs held, in reverse chronological order. 
 They should be one page, tops; usually, you have to account for only the last 10 years. You should look at your resume the way employers see it: Is there continuity in your work history? Have you jumped around too much? Be prepared to explain what you did, what you accomplished and why you changed jobs. 
"The first thing I look for is a concrete, concise statement that covers their objective, as well as some essence of their experience," said Charles O'Neill, the owner of Diversified Management Resources, a recruiting firm in Peterborough, N.H. "Don't expect people to understand what you've accomplished unless you tell them. General resumes just don't work."
Mr. O'Neill and Stephanie A.R. Shirit, the founder and chief executive of Resource Associates, a job-search firm in Las Vegas, suggest that job seekers create resumes for each position they want, emphasizing strengths and interests particularly geared to the specific job. Do not lie, and avoid smarmy phrases like, "I could make a real contribution," or "I'm a people person."
"Everybody's a people person," Ms. Shirit said. "How are you different? You could say, 'I'm a people person because I'm very positive, focused, cost effective, a team player.' They don't care about your children, religion, or community activities. You can put these things down as additional activities because they show what kind of a person you are, but you don't have to list every single thing. Try and keep it professional." 
Discussing people who have been out of work, Ms. Shirit said: "What were you doing? Why were you unemployed? You got laid off, but then what did you do? Were you trying to change careers? Did you volunteer? Go back to school? Start a business? 
"Emphasize the positive things you did," she added. "People have to have some kind of income; unemployment runs out. You probably weren't home eating bon-bons."
Ms. Shirit recently advised a client hoping to change her job as a retail executive to public relations, a move the client feels she could make with relative ease. Ms. Shirit agreed that it was a possible transition but that the client's resume needed updating to reflect her new goals. "One of her bullet points," Ms. Shirit said, "was 'executed overall boutique operations.' That's good -- executed is a good word. But then she had things like, 'Hiring and training of entirely new team.' That doesn't tell me anything. Accentuate what you did. Be specific. You have bullets there for a reason: to highlight your skills."
John Karras, director of graduate and Web-based career services at DeVry University in Chicago, calls the years between jobs the "trade-off factors" or "value added," when a job seeker can develop extra assets like international travel, fluency in a foreign language, advanced degrees or strong technical or computer skills. "Focus on the day-to-day activities that may be transferable from position to position," he said. "Companies are often asked what they look for, and they say, 'A leader, a problem solver, someone who is dependable.' They rarely list job experience."
It is also important to focus on job responsibilities rather than job title, because titles can be ambiguous. "Take an inventory of the responsibilities you've had over the course of your careers and prioritize them in terms of points of marketability for the job sought," Mr. Karras said. "List the most relevant point first, even if it relates to something done many years ago."
What's more, you don't have to put your age on your resume, or list your year of college graduation. Employers in many industries -- especially those that do not require a special degree, like law or medicine -- enjoy hiring older people because they are often more focused and know what they can and cannot do. 
However, "If the issue is really breadth of experience rather than age -- if, for example, you have more experience than your potential supervisor -- address the issue head on, turning a potential negative into a positive," Mr. O'Neill said. "'As you'll see, I've managed teams of people before. I understand the challenges you face. I can help you succeed. I look forward to the chance to roll up my sleeves and get the job done."' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (93%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (92%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CHILDREN (67%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion

PERSON: Abby Ellin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



635 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1944 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL; 
Ratner's Path To Buy Nets Had Pitfalls And Promise

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SANDOMIR and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
By Wednesday morning, Bruce C. Ratner had nearly sealed his $300 million offer to buy the Nets and move them to Brooklyn. But nothing was certain, not after a week in which his confidence soared and plummeted as he struggled to outnegotiate a rival.
 Around 10 o'clock, a fax arrived in Skillman, N.J., at the law office of Edwin Stier, a former prosecutor who became president of the Nets' ownership group a month ago with a mandate to bring order to the sale. 
 The message was three lines long: Charles Kushner had raised his offer to $300 million, all cash, and he demanded an answer that day.
Kushner, a real estate developer like Ratner, thought he was on equal footing. Theoffer surprised Stier, who thought Kushner had placed his final bid the day before. 
"Crumple it up," said Joe Ravitch of Goldman Sachs, one of the team's investment bankers, convinced the priority was to complete the remaining issues left in the contract with Ratner.
At 5 p.m., Kushner sent Stier a second fax: he withdrew his bid.
Kushner could have saved the call. He had lost. Ninety minutes later, Stier called Ratner to tell him the team was his.
"I can't believe we did this," Ratner said Friday, his 59th birthday, hours after he signed the contract. "But what a huge responsibility. It was like a big wow."
Ratner's pursuit of the Nets began 14 months ago, long before he put the team and a proposed arena at the center of Atlantic Yards, a $2.5 billion commercial and residential complex in downtown Brooklyn.
The idea was hatched in October 2002, by two men who are not sports fanatics: Ratner and Marty Markowitz, the voluble Brooklyn borough president. Markowitz placed the first of his weekly calls to Ratner to bring a sports team to Brooklyn.
As Markowitz recalls it: "I asked him: 'Just look into it. It may be impossible, but I feel we owe it to the people of Brooklyn.' He said, 'I don't know anything about it; I'm not into sports.' "
Ratner thought it "wasn't remotely possible" to land a team but began to learn about sports economics. He felt the Nets were the likeliest candidate to lure to Brooklyn.
Ratner and two executives of his Forest City Ratner Companies visited Coney Island, Red Hook and the Brooklyn Navy Yard but rejected them because they lacked public transportation. Then they inspected the Long Island Rail Road yard at Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues, where Walter O'Malley had once sought to build a stadium for the Dodgers.
"I thought it was a matter of getting them to move over," Ratner said. "Then one day, I realized one would have to buy a team to get them."
But he wanted a project that would make Brooklyn an urban wonderland and provide offices as well as housing for poor, middle-class and wealthy residents. Last February, Ratner showed his nascent plans to a potential investor and basketball fan, Vincent Viola, chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange. Ratner's company had built the exchange's headquarters in Lower Manhattan.
"The first thing that struck me," said Viola, who has had season tickets to the Nets for 11 years, "was that the site was only two blocks from my high school, Brooklyn Tech. After the first meeting or two, I realized it was an opportunity to work for a positive social result. I was in."
By the spring, Ratner was seriously examining the Nets, who had the unfettered right to move into New York. The team's holding company, YankeeNets, had floundered in trying to build an arena in Newark for the Nets and the Devils, in whom it owns a 30 percent stake. And tensions between the owners of the Yankees and the Nets were simmering, as were those within the Nets.
The Devils were losing money; a $50 million note, the final payment to the team's former owner, John J. McMullen, was due in August. Believing he could find a way to buy the Nets by investing in the Devils, Ratner began discussions with Lewis Katz and Raymond Chambers, principal owners of both teams.

A World-Class Architect
Ratner did not want a sports architect for his arena, let alone the entire complex. He wanted a visionary, and he found one in Frank Gehry, the Canadian-bred architect whose idiosyncratic projects include the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain. 
Ratner is also the development partner of The New York Times Company in a new building for the newspaper's headquarters, and he met Gehry in 2000 during the design competition for that building. Although Gehry withdrew from the competition, Ratner vowed one day to work with him. He saw Gehry's presence as "something that could be appreciated by people who were not basketball fans," he said.
In May, Ratner flew to Los Angeles to woo Gehry. "He brings this incredible project," Gehry, who was quickly entranced, said. "I'm a hockey nut. He thought he was going to get the Devils, at first."
Ratner's friends and family listened attentively to his plans but rolled their eyes behind his back. His companion, Dr. Pam Lipton, however, supported him and even found an investor when others got cold feet.
Ratner next needed city support. He started to pitch his project, which at this point included the arena, 4,500 apartments, four office towers, and shops and public spaces. But he was unaware that the focus of the city's economic development and planning officials was on making a $1.5 billion stadium deal for the Jets on the West Side of Manhattan. Frustrated, he went directly to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. "From the moment the mayor heard about it," one person involved in the talks said, "he ordered everyone to get in line."
Meanwhile, Ratner and Viola, his investor, were raising $75 million to acquire a stake in the Devils and move them and the Nets to Brooklyn. The Devils had to pay McMullen the $50 million note on Aug. 22.
At the last moment, the plan unraveled. Chambers, who held out hope that the teams could find a home in Newark, paid the note, along with other owners.
But George Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner, lobbied to put the Nets on the auction block. At an acrimonious board meeting in September, YankeeNets decided to hire the investment banks Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers to explore a sale. "When that happened," Ratner said, "we were totally ready. We'd shown our master plan to the city."

Making a Deal
The bankers had four bidders: Ratner; Kushner, whose primary partner was Senator Jon S. Corzine, Democrat of New Jersey; Charles B. Wang, a co-owner of the Islanders who once thought he had a deal to buy the Nets; and Stuart Feldman, a publicity-shy financier. But Wang withdrew in December, irked by the slow pace of talks, and Feldman's plans and motives were a mystery.
Kushner wanted to keep the Nets playing at Continental Arena and was negotiating a financing plan with the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority for up to $150 million in renovations. He believed his strength rested in the certainty of the team's staying put.
"We were under the impression we had an advantage because of the contingencies of the Ratner transaction," Kushner said, referring to the welter of city and state approvals Ratner needs to build in Brooklyn.
About 10 days ago, the bankers began to seriously challenge the $300 million offer Ratner first made last month. Would he assume the hefty payments due former Nets like Jayson Williams, Dikembe Mutombo and Alonzo Mourning? At first, Ratner would not, and his offer's actual value sank below $240 million. "His people were looking at the finances and said, 'By the way, we won't assume responsibility for a lot of the long-term liabilities of the team,' " Ravitch, of Goldman Sachs, said.
A few days later, Ratner made another offer with conditions that held its value below $300 million and included a threat to withdraw it, said Ravitch, who brushed off the warning. 
Ratner disputed that account, saying he always expected to assume theliabilities but pressed for protection against the team's losses. "That scared the sellers, who thought we were trying to renegotiate," he said.
One official briefed by Ratner's company said: "When things were going south, Bruce was very nervous. Our team sensed there were midlevel people at the Nets who didn't want the team sold."
More than a week ago, Stier, the president of the ownership group, Community Youth Organization, reacting to a snag in talks with Ratner, tried to lure Wang back into the bidding. Wang refused.
Stier and the bankers then awaited Kushner's return Monday from a trip to Jerusalem before negotiating further with Ratner. Kushner had offered $267.5 million in November, based on preliminary financial information. "Charlie had expressed concerns early on that he didn't want us to use him against Ratner," Stier said.
So Stier structured a process in which he would not relate one bidder's offer to the other. He wanted to see passion in the game.
But upon his return, Kushner did not immediately raise his bid.
Ratner did. Concerned about the tussle over the long-term liabilities and willing to share the team's losses of upward of $15 million this season, Ratner made his final bid on Monday. In a telephone conversation Monday morning, Stier said, "Bruce said he was prepared to offer $300 million without any adjustments or conditions, 'Net-net, $300 million.' "

Last-Minute Moves
Kushner struck back the next day, but he did not match Ratner: he offered a choice of $267.5 million in cash, or $200 million up front with $100 million to be paid over 10 years. 
The latter option, the bankers figured, was not worth $300 million.
Kushner, two people involved in the talks said, believed he was overbidding. "The team isn't worth $267.5 million," he said during a conference call with the negotiators. Rather, he said, the right price was $225 million.
Privately, he had told his negotiating team the same thing, but that he could make the finances work for the Nets and justify the price tag, one member of his group said.
Kushner said: "I wanted an answer in a day. I thought my bid would be enough to precipitate dialogue and discussion. It never did."
Advantage Ratner, whose offer was now being negotiated round-the-clock. The talks with Ratner were so far along by Wednesday that only a collapse would leave the door open for Kushner. Kushner still felt a need to go further despite discomfort he felt because Katz, part of the selling group, was one of Ratner's investors. Stier said he barred Katz from influencing the sale.
While Kushner awaited the response to his faxed offer of $300 million, he also sought financial aid on Wednesday from the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, which owns Continental Arena. George R. Zoffinger, the agency's president, called it a request for a $25 million subsidy, one that he and Gov. James E. McGreevey considered for most of the day but rejected. 
Kushner said it was a request for a $25 million loan that he and his investors would repay, as they would have for the arena renovations.
"I asked for it," he said, "because I felt a sense of urgency."
Stier said there was little choice but to try to complete talks with Ratner.
Kushner thought that as long as he bid $300 million, in what he called an "ill-defined process," he would be taken seriously.
The agreement on Wednesday was approved by the YankeeNets board on Friday, a formality that paved Ratner's path to his jubilant performance hours later at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, where he was joined by a cadre of New York cheerleaders, including Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki.
"This is not only about basketball," Ratner told a crowded second-floor room. "It's about a vision, about housing, about jobs, and an urban landscape we can all be proud of."
Outside, a cluster of protesters demanded that he abandon his dream. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in The Arts on Tuesday about Frank Gehry's design for the first phase of the Grand Avenue development project in Los Angeles misstated the location of the proposed Atlantic Yards project that Mr. Gehry is designing in Brooklyn. (The error also appeared in sports articles on Feb. 9 and April 11, in the City section on Jan. 15 and in several articles in 2003, 2004 and 2005.) It is on rail yards and other land in Prospect Heights and on a block in Park Slope; it is not in Downtown Brooklyn, although it is near that neighborhood.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); RELOCATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); DIVESTITURES (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); SPORTS FANS (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (63%) Basketball; Relocation of Business; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: RATNER COS (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%) New Jersey Nets

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: Richard Sandomir; Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



636 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Doesn't Need Nets To Provide It With Identity; 
Let the Disgraced Lie

 BODY:
To the Sports Editor:
 I write to you as a former and forever Brooklynite. I was only 8 years old at the time, but my soul remains seared by the loss of our beloved Bums. 
George Vecsey attributes the recent rebirth of Brooklyn not to the immigration of the nouveau riche, yuppies and Manhattan wannabes, but to a remarkable resilience of Brooklyn after O'Malley (may his name be disgraced) moved our Dodgers to L.A. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
 The spiritual destruction of Brooklyn and its aspirations for leading societal growth came in 1957. The destruction of Carthage was as complete. That the spiritually destitute buildings, parks and boulevards remained and have regrown reflects the fertile environment of Brooklyn, perhaps in its remaining people, soil and stones -- not in the subsequent successes of the finance of Manhattan's residents. 
Perhaps Vecsey is not a Brooklynite (which should, alone, disqualify him from writing such drivel) or -- heavens -- is a Yankee fan. The Nets or another major league team may play a role, over time, in the restoration of some of the communal values in Brooklyn. As for its current economic revival, this is merely because Brooklyn provides a fertile environment for such a process. Let's leave the accursed O'Malley and his deed where they lie.

ELLIOT HERTZBERG
Yonkers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (78%); TRENDS (70%); IMMIGRATION (57%) Basketball; Social Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (93%) New Jersey Nets

PERSON: Elliot Hertzberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Brooklyn (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



637 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Doesn't Need Nets To Provide It With Identity; 
Misplaced Priorities

 BODY:
To the Sports Editor:
 Brooklyn hasn't waited for the Nets to dream again. 
For the past 15 years, the borough has grown in leaps and bounds, restoring both an identity and a good quality of life, and this despite obstacles like cuts in the city's budget. It's galling to see that public funds much needed for schools, health care and the arts may go toward helping N.B.A. mercenaries tear apart the fabric of a neighborhood. 
 Incidentally, downtown Brooklyn already has a world-class institution that draws thousands of happy patrons every year. It's called the Brooklyn Academy of Music.

ELISABETH VINCENTELLI
Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Basketball; Relocation of Business; Finances; Stadiums and Arenas; Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%) New Jersey Nets

PERSON: Elisabeth Vincentelli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Brooklyn (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



638 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 13; Column 1; Television; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: COVER STORY; 
Drugs, Bodies, Weapons And Terrorists

BYLINE:  By HUGH HART

 BODY:
 THERE's no stopping "Traffic." In 1989 the British "Traffik," a Channel Four production, traced heroin trade along ancient smuggling routes from the poppy fields of Pakistan to the end-user: teenage drug addicts in England. Then in 2000, Steven Soderbergh's equally downbeat epic, with an innovative multistrand story line, shifted locales to Mexico and the United States and earned four Oscars, including one for best director, and a nomination for best picture. This week, USA presents its own six-hour "Traffic" mini-series, with a new, terrifyingly human twist. 
 "What's happened is that there's now this huge international trade in smuggling people by using the heroin smuggling people by using the heroin smuggling routes," said Ron Hutchinson, who wrote the screenplay for the mini-series. The drug routes, he said, have formed part of the infrastructure for the terrorist networks; their wheels are greased by drugs, which have become "the international underground currency." 
 "It's disposable; it's portable; it doesn't give you the headaches that a bundle of cash does because you don't have all the problems of getting it into the banking system and hiding it," Mr. Hutchinson said. "So there's this huge circle now and it all comes back to drugs."
 Expanding the "Traffic" metaphor to encompass immigration and terrorism was not necessarily what USA executives had in mind when they approached Mr. Hutchinson two years ago about revisiting the subject. "What I basically said to them was that I didn't think audiences would want a retread of the same tale," recalled Mr. Hutchinson, who is also the executive producer of the mini-series. "There's this whole underground economy that's come along in the last 10 years or so since the original 'Traffik' and it's not just about drugs anymore."
 To dramatize the nexus among drugs, bodies, weapons and terrorists, Mr. Hutchinson devised three hopscotching story lines. A rogue agent (Elias Koteas) cuts off contact with his handlers from the Drug Enforcement Administration to broker a suspicious heroin deal with an Afghan drug dealer (Ritchie Coster) while, in Seattle, his wife (Mary McCormack) tries to deal with their rebellious teenage son (Justin Chatwin). Elsewhere in Seattle, a taxi-driving illegal immigrant from Chechnya (Cliff Curtis) worries about the fate of his wife and child, who are supposed to be hidden in the hold of a cargo ship. Simultaneously, a Seattle businessman (Balthazar Getty) who's taken over his father's garment factory gets entangled with a shady Chinese-American "businessman" (Nelson Lee) who's interested in importing more than textiles.
 Stephen Hopkins, who had demonstrated his ability to juggle parallel story lines as the Emmy-nominated director of "24" during its first season on Fox, was hired to braid the narrative bits together. "In the first two hours of this series, we had to do something scary, which is tell a bunch of different stories which you know are all going to collide later on but no one else does," said Mr. Hopkins, a producer of the mini-series.
 "Mary McCormack's character is more straightforward because she's trying to protect her family, so that's the easiest to jump in and out of," Mr. Hopkins continued. "But the other ones demand being educated by a lot of information politically and geographically. Some of the ideas I think are foreign to most people's thinking unless you really follow global politics."
 The global reach of drug-financed trafficking was certainly not lost on Mr. Hutchinson. "The drug business was the original multinational corporation," he noted. "It's extremely efficient." And ruthless. Mr. Hutchinson, who was nominated for an Emmy for his work on a previous docudrama, "The Tuskegee Airmen," made up fictional characters for "Traffic" but based much of the material on actual events, including an incident he'd heard about from a journalist friend at the BBC.
 "Bodies had been washing up on the coast of Sicily for months, some of them with bullet holes in the back," Mr. Hutchinson said. "The story was, there had been a shipload of immigrants to be droppedoff somewhere in Western Europe. The captain was being paid in heroin, something like a half a kilo a person. When the captain found some stow-aways, the peol ehe was delivering them to didn't want to pay any extra so the captain basically shot a half-dozen people and threw them overboard."
 Not that the creative team had to look far afield for examples of human cargo. Mr. Hopkins filmed "Traffic" in British Columbia. "The first day of shooting, a giant boat bringing refugees from Asia was picked up in Vancouver," he recalled. "There were hundreds of people who'd been in this hold for three weeks and hadn't been let out and were really ill."
 Many McCormack, who recently appeared in Mr. Soderbergh's HBO series 'K Street," observed fiction imitating fact on a daily basis while portraying Carole McKay, the well-meaning middle-class mom who's trying to keep her son from getting caught up in the urban drug scene. "I've never seen anything like it," Ms. McCormack said. "You'll be walking down the street in Vancouver and right there in an alleyway you see someone shooting up or doing crack. The people I spoke to in Vancouver were not shcoked by that at all."
 For Mr. Hutchinson, "Traffic" provided an opportunity to knit together seemingly unrelated predicaments into a broader tapestry of human behavior. "In a larger sense, this is more than just a story about drug taking," he said. "When you see some 17-year-old girl shooting up in an alley, that is intimately connected with this vast 2,000-year-old network, and at some point she's connected with immigrant smuggling, she's connected with moving guns and explosives and other nasty stuff around the world, because that habit pays for people who are moving things other than drugs, sight unseen, and they are doing this through the ongoing sale of heroin."
 As Mr. Hutchinson tells the tale, "Traffic" courses to its somber destination fueled not just by the apparently incessant appetite for cheap highs but also by an equally powerful yearning for freedom. "I thought of this story as a way to explore immigration as much as the drug thing," he said. "I live in California and read all the time about people being found dead in containers coming from south of the border or being washed ashore on the Pacific Northwest. America is still this extraordinary beacon when you consider the terrifying things people will still do to get here."


GRAPHIC: Photos: On the cover: Elias Koteas as Mike McKay in "Traffic."; Elias Koteas, left, as Mike McKay, a drug enforcement agent. Below left: Mary McCormack as his wife, Carole. Above: Martin Donovan as Brent Delaney, McKay's partner.; Mr. Koteas, left, at the head of the caravan, and Balthazar Getty right, as Ben Edmonds, a Seattle businessman. Below: Smugglers prepared to drown the body of an illegal immigrant in a scene from "Traffic." (Photographs by Alan Zenuk/USA Network) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEROIN (91%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); APPAREL MFG (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); TEXTILES (60%) Television

ORGANIZATION: Usa Cable Network

PERSON: Hugh Hart

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



639 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: War Of Ideas, Part 6 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland 

 BODY:
For the past few weeks I've tried to lay out the tactics we in the West can adopt to strengthen the moderates in the Arab-Muslim world to fight the war of ideas against the forces of intolerance within their civilization -- which is where the real war on terrorism will either be won or lost. But if there is one thing I've learned in examining this issue it's this: ideas don't just spread on their own. Ideas spread in a context. So often, since 9/11, people have remarked to me: "Wow, Islam, that's a really angry religion." I disagree. I do agree, though, that there are a lot of young Muslims who are angry, because they live in some of the most repressive societies, with the fewest opportunities for women and youth, and with some of the highest unemployment. Bad contexts create an environment where humiliation -- and the anger, bad ideas and violence that flow from it -- are rife. In short, it is impossible for us to talk about winning the war of ideas in the Arab-Muslim world without talking about the most basic thing that gives people dignity and hope: A job. 
 "For a long time now, I've felt that what we're really facing is not a clash of civilizations, but a clash of generations," argued David Rothkopf, a former acting U.S. under secretary of commerce. "You have an aging developed world, particularly Europe, that is trying to protect its jobs, and you have a young, job-seeking, job-needing emerging world, particularly the Muslim world, that will go anywhere and do anything to either seize the job opportunities or express their frustration with not having opportunities." 
 Just read the numbers and weep: of the 90 million Arab youth today (between the ages of 15 and 24), 14 million are unemployed, many of them among the 15 to 20 million Muslims now living in Europe. "There's not enough jobs and not enough hope," Jordan's King Abdullah told the Davos economic forum. According to the 2003 Arab Human Development Report, between 1980 and 1999 the nine leading Arab economies registered 370 patents (in the U.S.) for new inventions. Patents are a good measure of a society's education quality, entrepreneurship, rule of law and innovation. During that same 20-year period, South Korea alone registered 16,328 patents for inventions. You don't run into a lot of South Koreans who want to be martyrs.
I was at Google's headquarters in Silicon Valley a few days ago, and they have this really amazing electronic global map that shows, with lights, how many people are using Google to search for knowledge. The region stretching from Morocco to the border of India had almost no lights. I attended a breakfast at Davos on the outsourcing of high-tech jobs from the U.S. and Europe to the developing world. There were Indian and Mexican businessmen there, and much talk about China. But not a word was spoken about outsourcing jobs to the Arab world. The context -- infrastructure, productivity, education -- just isn't there yet.
So what to do? A lot of help can and should come from Europe. Although America is often the target, Europe has been the real factory of Arab-Muslim rage. Europe has done an extremely poor job of integrating and employing its growing Muslim minorities, many of which have a deep feeling of alienation. And Europe has done a very poor job of investing in North Africa and the Middle East -- its natural backyard.
America is far from perfect in this regard, but by forging the Nafta free trade agreement with Mexico, the U.S. helped create a political and economic context there that not only spurred jobs and the modernization of Mexico, but created the environment for its democratization. Former Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo remarked to me: "I don't think I would have been successful in political reform without the decent economic growth we had spurred by Nafta from 1996 to 2000. Those five years, we had average growth of 5 percent." It was in that optimistic environment that Mexico had its first democratic transition from the ruling party to the opposition.
So if you take anything away from this series, I hope it's this: The war of ideas among Arabs and Muslims can only be fought and won by their own forces of moderation, and those forces can only emerge from a growing middle class with a sense of dignity and hope for the future. Young people who grow up in a contextof real economic opportunity, basic rule of law and the right to speak and write what they please don't usually want to blow up the world. They want to be part of it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); RELIGION (92%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PATENTS (86%); TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (50%) Terrorism; Islam; Economic Conditions and Trends; Terrorism

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (80%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (80%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (66%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JORDAN (79%); MOROCCO (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Middle East; Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



640 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Changing Careers, An Option For Some 

BYLINE:  By KAREN ALEXANDER

 BODY:
AFTER she was laid off as a radio frequency technician in Silicon Valley and spent two frustrating years searching for a job with decent pay and security, Kimloan Dam realized that it was time for her to change industries.
 Mrs. Dam, 45, is looking for a career that will keep her employed into her 60's. So this month she began training to become a certified nursing assistant, and she plans to become a registered nurse eventually. 
 Matt Lambiase, 34, lost his investment-banking job in New York just days before the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. While he was thinking about what to do next, his mother and stepfather experienced serious health problems. After spending a lot of time in various hospitals visiting them, Mr. Lambiase developed an interest in medicine, particularly surgery. 
But to become a surgeon would have required a decade of training. Mr. Lambiase didn't think he could wait that long, so he entered an accelerated one-year nursing program at Columbia University in May. After he becomes a registered nurse, he hopes to start working and simultaneously continue his education to become a nurse practitioner, and eventually a surgical first assistant.
Nicholas Burgos, 48, lost his job as a network technician for Verizon Communications -- working on telecommunications at the San Francisco International Airport -- after 9/11. The company moved him to a desk job for a while, but he was laid off for good last March.
Mr. Burgos, who had always fantasized about being a chef, finished a vocational training program in culinary arts in December. He is looking for restaurant work, and hopes one day to open his own restaurant. 
Meanwhile, to supplement his education he volunteers at a cooking school at Draeger's Market, a high-end food emporium in San Mateo, Calif. In return for getting the food and equipment ready for two hours before the cooking classes begin, he is allowed to participate in the program free. 
Mrs. Dam, Mr. Lambiase and Mr. Burgos are all on the right track, according to job-market experts, who say that health care, education, construction and service-industry jobs, including food service are among the fields most likely to flourish in the years and decades to come. 
What's more, all three have approached their retraining with what is known as a career ladder in mind: they are rapidly acquiring entry-level skills that will make them immediately marketable, so they can quickly start working in their desired industries even while they continue their educations.
Rather than looking to the next big technological advance for potential jobs, middle-aged job seekers should focus on industries that need workers now, says Stephen Levy, an economist who is director of the Center for the Continuing Study of the California Economy in Palo Alto. 
"People often confuse or intermingle the objectives of pushing the region's economy forward by getting into the new hot industries with the mission of putting people to work," Mr. Levy said. "In real life you follow the money, you follow the jobs." 
Aging baby boomers are expected to retire en masse from fields like teaching and nursing, and experts say they will leave gaping holes in the work force. What is more, as boomers age, their demand for health-care-related goods and services is expected to surge -- raising demand for workers in industries as far-flung as physical therapy, nursing care, plastic surgery, pharmaceutical technicians and medical billing professionals. 
In many parts of the country, the construction and building trades are also expected to continue to flourish. And other fields that will see increasing demand are data storage and data security, financial advising, financial auditing and mediation, according to Rick Cobb, executive vice president of the outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas in Chicago.
Mrs. Dam and Mr. Burgos, both casualties of the Silicon Valley technology bust, are preparing for new careers through the Opportunities Industrialization Center West, a nonprofit organization in Menlo Park, Calif., that offers job training, counseling and job-placement assistance at little or no cost. The 40-year-old center has been through a big change in the job market since the technology bubble burst, and it quickly retooled to expand its offerings in a variety of health-care and service-related fields, including medical billing and coding, certified nursing assistants and pharmacy technicians.
"A lot of the people that we placed into the technology field came back to us when they lost their jobs," said Sharon Williams, the organization's executive director. "They were network technicians, database managers and systems administrators. "Their severances started running out, and they just had to start over."
Although Mrs. Dam was offered other technology jobs, the new opportunities would have paid much less than the $98,000 a year she earned in her old position. And she wondered how long those new jobs would last. "Maybe they will need me for another five years, and then I will be 50 years old, and it will be hard for me to find another job," she said.
Losing her job -- and her health insurance -- was a blow to Mrs. Dam. Although nursing pays less than her technology work did, she hopes to find a job with the countyor state government so she can earn lifetime health benefits. "I thought I'd better try something now while I'm not too old," she said. 
AFTER the 11-week nursing assistant program, she will have to pass a state exam and then she can begin to work while she continues her training to become a registered nurse.
Mr. Cobb, the outplacement expert, says it is wise for people who are switching careers to find a quick way to enter their fields and start gaining experience. 
"People tend to want to get the education in a field before they look at the opportunity," Mr. Cobb said. By getting to work in a new area right away, even at an entry-level job, they have the opportunity to impress future employers by demonstrating their "sheer eagerness to participate" in their new fields, he said. 
Mr. Burgos knew it was important for him to start over quickly, before he became depressed about his situation. "I was always attracted to cooking," he said. "This is an opportunity to fulfill my procrastinated dream."
He checked on various culinary schools, and found that a basic 15-month chef's training program would have cost him $50,000. The culinary arts program he attended instead might not land him a spot on the Food Network, but it gave him a springboard from which he could quickly start working and gathering experience. He also got the opportunity to work at the program's training restaurant in Redwood City, Calif., where the ahi tuna steak he created for the menu consistently sells out.
There is an unwanted side effect to Mr. Burgos's newfound culinary skills, though. "At school they make me eat everything I cook," he said. "I gained 25 pounds in four months."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 26, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the front page of the special expanded Job Market section yesterday carried incorrect continuation page numbers for four articles. "A Rosier Picture for Hiring" continued on Page 6; "Changing Careers" on Page 4; "Honing Your Skills" on Page 4; and "Take to the Streets?" on Page 3. The Times regrets the inconvenience to readers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Matt Lambiase, a former investment banker, is studying nursing at Columbia University. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RESTAURANTS (86%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (77%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (77%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (76%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); TERRORISM (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); STEPPARENTS (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%) Labor; Medicine and Health; Education and Schools; Building (Construction); Service Industries; Hiring and Promotion; Vocational Training; Labor

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); DRAEGERWERK AG & CO KGAA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (82%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%); DRW3 (FRA) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5047 MEDICAL, DENTAL & HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (53%)

PERSON: Karen Alexander

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



641 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester; 
As the Office Market Stirs, a Major Departure

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
EARLIER this month, as Westchester's office market showed palpable signs of making a comeback, Altria Group, the parent company of Kraft Foods, announced that it would vacate its 560,000-square-foot building in Rye Brook and put it up for sale.
 The move is a significant setback in a county that has reeled in recent years from downsizings and relocations by large corporations, and it is expected to send Westchester's vacancy rate -- which had finally been dropping -- upward once again. 
 John Goodkind, managing principal of Newmark & Company Real Estate's offices in Westchester and Fairfield, called Altria's announcement "a momentum buster." 
At the end of the fourth quarter of 2003, the commercial office vacancy rate for the county was just under 13 percent, according to figures released by CB Richard Ellis, the real estate brokerage and services company. The rate was down from 14 percent at the end of the previous quarter and from close to 16 percent at the end of 2002, according to the figures. Over all in Westchester at the end of 2003, there was about 4.3 million square feet of unoccupied office space, down from 4.7 million in the third quarter of last year and from 5.2 million at the end of 2002. 
Mr. Goodkind said the latest quarterly numbers reflected a number of recent deals, including Ameriquest Mortgage's signing at year's end of a long-term lease for 223,366 square feet at 44 South Broadway, White Plains. The 850,000-square-foot building, built three decades ago, is the former home of I.B.M. and Prodigy Communications, among others. It has had surplus space available for several years, with space on the market sometimes exceeding 50 percent. Ameriquest, a national mortgage lender, leased four full floors, a portion of another and the lower level at 44 South Broadway, also known as Westchester One. 
Another positive development was the announcement this month by Cadbury Schweppes Americas Beverages, the new American beverage subsidiary of Cadbury Schweppes, that it had signed a lease for 135,000 square feet at 900 King Street, Rye Brook. The site, a three-story, 201,460-square-foot former I.B.M. building on 17 acres, has been empty since the early 1990's.
Cadbury Schweppes is combining Snapple Beverage Group, based at 709 Westchester Avenue in White Plains, and Mott's, which has its headquarters at Six High Ridge Park in Stamford, to form Cadbury Schweppes Americas Beverages. Rye King Associates, a joint venture of Brickman Associates and Wafra Investment of New York City, intend to spend a total of $12 million to convert the structure to a multitenanted building. 
In recent years, other large blocks of corporate space have also been matched with new tenants. In 2002, Morgan Stanley purchased the former 725,000-square-foot Texaco headquarters on 107 acres in Harrison for $42 million; that deal took place just months after the property was listed.
It took much longer to find a buyer for the long-empty Mount Pleasant Executive Center in Sleepy Hollow, the former headquarters of I.B.M.'s Latin American division. Last spring, New York Life paid $38 million for the 383,000-square-foot building on 76 wooded acres, which it is expected to occupy this year, moving some of its employees from Manhattan.
Other office buildings in the county, however, are languishing on the market. Among them is 445 Hamilton Avenue in White Plains, a 320,000-square-foot building owned and partially occupied by MetLife, the giant insurer. Built in the late 1960's and occupied from mid-1980's until the late 1990's by Prodigy, it has 260,000 square feet available.
Also in White Plains, 632,000 square feet is being refurbished in four connected structures at 333 Westchester Avenue. The complex, which is at North Street and Westchester Avenue, was the headquarters of General Foods from the mid-1950's through 1983 and continued to house company operations until it became empty in July 1997. It has started to add tenants, including Ameriquest, Allied Irish Bank and Macsteel Asoma, a steel trading company. About 100,000 square feet is still available. 
THE headquarters that General Foods moved to in 1984 was the 54-acre Rye Brook site that Altria is now putting on the market. General Foods merged into Kraft Foods in 1989.
The decision to sell the facilities in Rye Brook, where 1,000 employees work, is expected to mean a loss of 320 jobs for Westchester. All of the Kraft workers are to be out of the building by the end of 2004, although many of them will be relocating to other sites in the county.
The pending vacancy could also be major drag on the office market. The site's square footage is expected to cause a jump of two percentage points in the county's office availability rates, according to Dean J. Shapiro, a senior managing director of CB Richard Ellis, and other brokers.
The eight-level building is a postmodern complex designed by Kevin Roche John Dinkeloo & Associates. It has a central domed atrium that doubles as the cafeteria, and an exterior staircase, which splits on either side to form an archway over the entry road. Besides the main building, the property includes a 65,000-square-foot second building and a man-made lake.
The complex is not expected to be an easy sell. "It looks and feels almost like a palace," Mr. Goodkind said, "and in today's world, corporations place more of a premium on efficiency than looks. It doesn't easily lend itself to multitenant users." At 75,000 square feet each, the floor plates are unusually large. 
The easiest buildings to market are those that can be converted from single to multiple tenant use, said Jeffrey H. Newman, executive vice president of W&M Properties, which owns about 650,000 square feet of Class A office space in Westchester. 
For example, AT&T is vacating 95,000 square feet at 500 Mamaroneck Avenue, a W&M building in Harrison. Mr. Newman said the company is "mitigating its risks" by renovating some of the space for several tenants rather for than a single user.
The refurbished space will be marketed to financial firms in Manhattan hoping to establish satellite offices in Westchester and to companies in Fairfield looking for more favorable rents, among others. Class A office space in Greenwich, he said, goes for $45 to $75 a square foot annually, depending on its proximity to the central business district. In Westchester, rents for comparable space go for $25 to $33 a square foot, he said.
Also, Mr. Newman said, Westchester is increasingly becoming a sought-after office location because of the accessibility of mass transportation and highways leading in and out of Manhattan, and the fact that "companies realize they're not go to be driving over a cliff when they leave Greenwich to go into Westchester."
Mr. Shapiro at CB Richard Ellis said that Fairfield's availability rate at the end of the fourth quarter of 2003 was 17 percent, compared with 13 percent in Westchester. He said that extensive retail and residential development in the central business district of White Plains this past year had improved Westchester's image and attracted new office users. In particular, Cappelli Enterprises built the $300 million City Center at White Plains with 500,000 square feet of retail space, two 35-story residential towers and a six-story loft building.
Over all in the county, as elsewhere in the New York metropolitan office market, sales of buildings continued at a brisk rate, with buyers taking advantage of low interest rates, said Glenn P. Walsh, a senior director for Cushman & Wakefield.
Mr. Walsh cited as an example Westchester's second-largest commercial sale for 2003: RPW Group's purchase of 2975 Westchester Avenue, an 18-year-old office building on the famed Platinum Mile in Purchase, from Ivy Equities for $18.5 million. (The largest commercial transaction in the county last year was New York Life's.) 
"The interest rates enabled the buyer, Robert P. Weisz, to acquire something at a purchase price he may not have been able to justify otherwise," Mr. Walsh said.
Looking ahead, Mr. Walsh predicted that 2004 would represent a period of recovery from the recession for Westchester, as small and midsized companies begin to talk about expansion. A full recovery of the market, however, will probably not occur until 2005, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A move by Kraft Foods from its Rye Brook building is expected to push up Westchester's office vacancy rate. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); SOFT DRINKS (66%); MORTGAGE BANKING (64%) 

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (92%); DR PEPPER SNAPPLE GROUP INC (82%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); BGC PARTNERS INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); CBRE GROUP INC (56%); CADBURY LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Altria Group

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (92%); DPS (NYSE) (82%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (58%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (57%); MS (NYSE) (56%); CBG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (82%); SIC2087 FLAVORING EXTRACTS & FLAVORING SYRUPS, NEC (82%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (82%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (52%)

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



642 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1732 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Unions Aim to Share in the Success of Reality TV

BYLINE:  By JIM RENDON

 BODY:
REALITY television shows like "Fear Factor," "Big Brother" and "The Bachelor" have crossed over from sideshow entertainment to network television's main event. But their success has caught the attention of more than advertisers and disgusted critics. Hollywood's unions are showing an interest, too. 
 The International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, which includes the International Cinematographers Guild and the Motion Picture Editors Guild, is trying to unionize reality shows that are shown by the networks, as well as gritty documentary-style cable shows like "Trauma: Life in the ER." Arguing that those who work on unscripted programs should receive health insurance, pensions, overtime pay and other benefits, the alliance has unionized "Big Brother," which is produced by Endemol USA, a unit of Telefonica S.A, and is in negotiations with "Blind Date" and "Fifth Wheel," produced by Renegade 83. 
 Reality shows, many of which originated in Europe and on cable channels in the United States, have traditionally been made by nonunion production companies. Now that reality shows are broadcast on the big networks, unions say their workers should get the same pay and benefits that go to unionized workers of other network shows. 
If the unions are successful, some people in the industry say, there may be less eating of crickets and fewer tear-filled rejections broadcast into America's living rooms. If the producers have to pay overtime and union wages, and to make contributions to health and pension programs, the shows will be more expensive to produce. That could make them less appealing to the networks, which have come to rely on reality shows as bargains for their prime-time schedules. 
Like unsuccessful strategists on "Survivor," producers of reality shows may wind up being voted off their island. "We are the bastard children of television," said Eric Schotz, president and chief executive of LMNO Productions, which has produced shows like "Man vs. Beast" and "Celebrity Boot Camp." "I find it fairly humorous that now, all of a sudden, the unions are showing up."
The recent ratings success and the lucrative advertising revenue of reality programming is part of the genre's appeal to unions, said Tris Carpenter, a national organizer with the Motion Picture Editors Guild, I.A.T.S.E. Local 700. "These shows are not paying actors, except for a host," he said. "They are made for less money but are still aired on the network, and that success is not getting passed on to everyone who makes the show happen." 
Wages for reality shows, on average, are not in line with those of scripted programming. Workers on the reality shows are generally freelancers who rarely receive benefits like health insurance or pensions, Mr. Carpenter said. Many work on a single show and then move on. Jobs can be as short as three or four months.
While an hour of prime-time reality programming for a major network costs about $700,000 to produce, the average scripted drama can cost $1 million to $2 million an hour. 
LOW costs initially drew networks to reality programming, said Jerry Katzman, the director of industry relations in the department of film, television and digital media at the University of California, Los Angeles, and the former president of the William Morris Agency. While he was at the agency, it helped bring programs like "Big Brother" from Europe. "These programs helped the networks balance out the high cost of producing scripted programming," Mr. Katzman said.
The production differences between reality programs and scripted shows have attracted some unions and befuddled others. A scripted show tends to have a large production staff that includes camera operators, highly paid scriptwriters and union actors. Reality programming, on the other hand, uses contestants who are nominally paid -- except for the prize winners -- and, usually, small production crews. Most of the work occurs after the cameras are put away.
Jay Renfroe, a partner in Renegade 83, said that on a reality show, production crews may shoot for only a few weeks, but that post-production takes nine weeks or more. Writers do not play much of a role. "Reality TV is really written in post-production," Mr. Renfroe said. "The storytellers are the producers and the editors."
Mr. Renfroe said a reality show could employ 12 editors at a time. That is because producers do not know during filming who will be voted out of the house, or which contestant will get the final rose and win the guy. They end up shooting hundreds of hours of tape so they have everything they may need. All that tape is then dumped on the editors and producers, who determine what stories to weed out .
The editors' union wants to organize the production companies of reality programming because they employ so many editors, which as a group are crucial to the programs' creation, Mr. Carpenter said. 
The Writers Guild of America is also working to unionize reality TV, said Paul Naurocki, assistant executive director of the guild, and has had some success. Although reality shows do not use traditional scripts, someone writes the host introductions and voice-overs, he said. Union members write a variety of programs, from dramas and sitcoms to game-shows. 
JUST because there are no polished scripts like those in a drama like "The West Wing" does not mean that reality writers should be treated differently than writers on other shows, Mr. Naurocki said. 
"Every hour of television competes with every other hour of television," he said. "If the nonunion stuff is done on the cheap, then it undercuts the standards established in dramatic programming."
And to the extent that there are writers, they are not treated like writers on other shows. Unionized writers receive residual checks, for example, when their shows are syndicated. Without union writers on the reality shows, no one gets a residual check if a program is rebroadcast. 
A few reality shows have gone into syndication. Renegade 83 recently sold the first three seasons of "Blind Date" to Spike TV, but no one will receive a residual check for reruns, Mr. Renfroe said.
Organizing is also a challenge when a show's staff members rotate every few months, Mr. Carpenter said. The unions need to work quickly. In most instances they do not go through the National Labor Relations Board for official elections because, he said, the show may be done before a vote takes place. While every case is different, Mr. Carpenter said that in many instances, if the union manages to sign up a majority of employees on a show, it can approach the production company and negotiate for a contract without going through the N.L.R.B.
When a show is unionized, the I.A.T.S.E. negotiates a contract for all of the different skills it represents, from camera operators to make up artists. 
The editors' union does not draw the line at unscripted network programming. In 2001, it organized New York Times Television, which produces documentary-style programs for the Discovery Channel and other cable networks. Mr. Carpenter said that these documentary-style programs are produced in much the same way as shows like "Big Brother." And editors on these shows have many of the same concerns. 
David Kirchner, now an assistant editor on feature films who worked at Times Television in 2001 and helped bring in the union, said that the work environment had improved with the payment of overtime and provision of unemployment insurance and health benefits.
But not everyone is persuaded that unionizing will bring benefits. For a freelance cinematographer to gain union benefits like health coverage, members must put in 600 hours of work a year on unionized shows, a tall order for someone who works mostly on nonunion reality shows.
Brian Gaetke, a cinematographer on "Fear Factor," which is among the shows that the cinematographers' union is trying to organize, said that he had not yet been contacted by the union. But he said he had little interest in joining, particularly if he had to pay the large upfront fee, which for that union can be as high as $10,000. 
"They want an exorbitant amount of money to join and offer nothing to compensate for it," Mr. Gaetke said.
The cinematographers' union did not return phone calls seeking comment, and the I.A.T.S.E. declined to comment.
To encourage people like him to join, unions are in some cases waiving the initiation fees. That was enough to persuade a camera operator on a network reality show, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The camera operator figured that joining the union would lead to work on feature films, where union membership is often required. 
Most people who work in reality programming move from one show to another every three or four months. If they are union members and work on union shows, they are also allowed to work on nonunion shows, at nonunion pay. Some say that advertising their union affiliation could alienate potential employers. 
"I am a bit scared about certain employers knowing that I'm in the union," the camera operator said. "I don't want people to think that I'm a troublemaker." 
For some workers, salary is not a big motivator. On a scripted network show, union editors earn $2,800 a week or more, Mr. Carpenter said. On a popular reality show, they earn $2,500 or more a week.
Mr. Gaetke says that he has been happy with the nonunion work environment on "Fear Factor." He said the show paid better and in a more timely manner than many others on which he works. 
Such employee satisfaction may be an obstacle for organizers. But they are also looking to organize cable shows, the bulk of reality programming, where the budgets, margins and salaries are much smaller.
Mr. Katzman cautioned that because the economics of cable television were different, inflating production costs with union salaries and benefits could be disastrous. "Cable is niche programming," he said, adding that if the cost of development rose, cable channels might find original shows less affordable.
It'san argument that Mr. Carpenter hears often, and one that he cannot say is totally without merit. But so far, he said, unionized companies that produce reality shows have been able to continue operating. And the union will continue its work. 
"Cable is no different for us," he said. "Shows are crossing over. Just because it is on cable today doesn't mean it's not going to be on a network tomorrow."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The success of reality shows like these, shown clockwise from top left, "Fear Factor," "The Bachelor," "Survivor" and "Celebrity Boot Camp," has some of Hollywood's unions looking to organize people who work on the programs. (Photos by Clockwise from top left, NBC, ABC, CBS, Fox) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (95%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); FILM (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); OVERTIME (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (76%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Television; organized labor; Labor

COMPANY: TELEFONICA SA (69%); ENDEMOL NV (56%); LMNO PRODUCTIONS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees; International Cinematographers Guild; Motion Picture Editors Guild

TICKER: TEF (NYSE) (69%); TEF (MCE) (69%); TEF (BIT) (69%); TDE (LSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561422 TELEMARKETING BUREAUS & OTHER CONTACT CENTERS (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



643 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1800 words

HEADLINE: Oldest Living Whiz Kid Tells All 

BYLINE:  By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
THERE has been no more unlikely movie star this season than Robert McNamara, the only living character in Errol Morris's documentary "The Fog of War." The 87-year-old Mr. McNamara -- who, as the Washington Post film critic Stephen Hunter pointed out, is a dead ringer for Gollum in "Lord of the Rings" -- has been as surprised as anyone by his new-found audience. "I don't know a damn thing about films and TV," he said when we spoke last weekend. He can't remember the title of the one other movie he saw in the past decade and has "never seen a DVD." He hasn't watched any other film about Vietnam, period, having made a particular point of avoiding those by Oliver Stone.
 As secretary of defense in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, Mr. McNamara presided over the most disastrous foreign adventure in American history and refused to speak out against it even after his own private doubts helped fuel L.B.J.'s decision to fire him. Mr. McNamara still lives in Washington, minutes away from the memorial to the 58,000-plus American dead. Are strangers nice when they approach him to talk about the movie? I asked. Yes, he said, but he acknowledged that the sample may be skewed: "People who hate you don't come up to you on the street and say you're a son of a bitch." 
 Since its release, "The Fog of War" has generated plenty of debate on two fronts. Should Mr. McNamara, who freely admits to making errors about Vietnam but stops well short of outright contrition, rot in hell? The verdicts on his confessions in Mr. Morris's film range from mild praise (he's conceding fallibility, however belatedly) to utter rage (Roger Rosenblatt, on "The NewsHour," likened him to the self-justifying bureaucrats of Treblinka).
The greater debate has been over the degree to which the follies of Vietnam are now being re-enacted in Iraq. Though Mr. Morris started interviewing Mr. McNamara before 9/11 and his film never mentions current events, the implicit parallels between then and now are there for the taking. In the Johnson administration's deceptive hyping of the Gulf of Tonkin incident as a provocation to war, we see the Bush administration's deceptive hyping of the supposedly imminent threat of Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction for the same purpose. In Mr. McNamara's stern warnings against waging war unilaterally and against trying to win the hearts and minds of a foreign land without understanding its culture first, we find historical lessons we didn't heed as we blundered into the escalating chaos of our "postwar" occupation of Iraq. 
Such analogies can be pushed only so far, however, and Mr. McNamara refuses to draw them publicly, despite repeated badgering by interviewers like me to do so. But if it is inexact, not to mention wildly premature, to declare that Iraq is Vietnam, it is not too soon to mine a related and pressing resonance of the McNamara story. When President-elect John F. Kennedy appointed Mr. McNamara to his cabinet, he was lionized as the very model, indeed the very shiny new model, of the modern star business executive: famously, the first non-Ford to be president of the Ford Motor Company, the most brilliant of the 10 so-called Whiz Kids whom Ford had recruited en masse from the Air Force brain trust of World War II, and the first M.B.A. from Harvard Business School to ascend so high in government.
As a national role model at the dawn of Camelot, Robert McNamara was Dick Cheney, Donald Rumsfeld and, yes, Paul O'Neill before it was cool. He entered the cabinet as an exemplar of "American certitude and conviction" who could use "his rationality with facts" to intimidate bureaucratic dissenters, David Halberstam wrote in "The Best and the Brightest" in 1972, after Mr. McNamara had come to his bad end. Among Mr. McNamara's virtues, Mr. Halberstam wrote, was loyalty -- but "perhaps too much loyalty, the corporate-mentality loyalty to the office instead of to himself."
"The Price of Loyalty," Ron Suskind's new best-selling expose of the inner workings of the Bush White House, reads like an as-told-to book by its principal source, Mr. O'Neill, a C.E.O./cabinet officer fired by another Texan wartime president. It casts the former treasury secretary in the same role of protagonist that Mr. McNamara plays in "The Fog of War." When Mr. O'Neill was first appointed, he was hailed for his successful tenure at Alcoa, where, like Mr. McNamara at Ford, he was prized for his humanistic concern with safety as well as his can-do resuscitation of a sinking bottom line. The parallels end there. Whatever one thinks of Mr. O'Neill's White House tenure, he is of footnote stature in American history, if that. And unlike Mr. McNamara, a loyal courtier to presidents to the bitter end and beyond, Mr. O'Neill hardly waited a moment before trashing George W. Bush.
Consistent to a fault, Mr. McNamara doesn't approve of Mr. O'Neill's behavior. "I think it's terrible," he says. "It's wrong for a cabinet officer after he's out to blacken the reputation of the president." He finds it "particularly bad" that Mr. O'Neill has since retreated a bit from his criticisms: "If you're going to do it, don't shift!" But the former treasury secretary's cooperation with Mr. Suskind's book is useful in a way Mr. McNamara might have been had he spoken out when it could have made a difference. (Our involvement in Vietnam lasted another seven years after his seven years in office.) "The Price of Loyalty" is valuable not so much for its few specific headline revelations, or for its gratingly adoring portrait of the naive and often hapless Mr. O'Neill, as for its atmospheric impressions of a White House where a C.E.O. mentality all too reminiscent of Mr. McNamara's shows signs of poisoning governance.
In the Kennedy administration, Mr. McNamara's background was something of a novelty. The Bush administration boasts more C.E.O.'s in top jobs than any administration in history -- as well as the first president with his own Harvard M.B.A. These resumes were commended by the press when Mr. Bush took office, much as Mr. McNamara's had been 40 years earlier. But what Mr. O'Neill describes in Mr. Suskind's book is not the executive branch of a democratic government so much as an old-school dictatorial corporate monolith where any serious debate, whether about economic or foreign policy, is stifled from the top. 
In "The Best and the Brightest," Mr. Halberstam summarizes how Mr. McNamara, his mind already made up on any subject, would run meetings at Ford (and later at the Pentagon): "Despite the appearance of give-and-take, the whole thing would become something of a sham, the classic Harvard Business School approach with loaded dice." The sentence could be grafted as is into Mr. O'Neill's descriptions of the Bush White House meetings in "The Price of Loyalty," where the McNamara-style C.E.O. enforcing his will and quashing debate often seems to be Mr. Cheney, freshly arrived from Halliburton. As Mr. McNamara's wielding of charts, statistics and unassailable rapid-fire logic mowed down internal dissent to Vietnam policy, so a similar intellectual arrogance at the very top of the Bush administration loads the dice for its rush into gaping budget deficits and ill-planned, excessively optimistic scenarios for post-Saddam Iraq.
I asked Mr. McNamara to identify any bad Ford habits that might have led him astray once in public service. He didn't concede much, noting only that he arrived in Washington having no sense of the role of the press in public life ("We had nothing like that in Detroit!") or the possibility that reporters might try (and succeed) in uncovering governmental activities that the administration wanted off the record. This corporate tic is duplicated exponentially in the Bush administration, which is shrouded in secrecy to the point where the public's right to know has been deftly supplanted by the small shareholder's right to receive an unfailingly upbeat annual report.
"The Fog of War" shows where this can lead. We see the vintage clips of Mr. McNamara promoting good news and suppressing the bad as the war turns sour -- a "credibility gap" echoed by this administration's "Mission Accomplished" happy talk after the fall of Saddam. We learn that there was no real White House debate of the domino theory, which as a premise for pre-emptive war in Vietnam was as intellectually suspect as the pre-emptive doctrine the Bush administration has applied selectively to justify its invasion of Iraq. "We were wrong, but we had in our minds a mind-set that led to that action," Mr. McNamara says in "The Fog of War" when he recalls how Vietnam spiraled after the Tonkin incident.
Errol Morris is not a historian or an ideologue but a profound student of the quirks of human nature. As he dramatizes Mr. McNamara's efforts to make sense of his own history, we see that it is the man's vanity, his narcissistic overestimation of his own "skill set" (to use current C.E.O. lingo), that leads him into a mental fog and his government into a quagmire. Such a classic tragic flaw is personal, not political, which is why "The Fog of War" is moving in the end. We see its protagonist inexorably heading toward disaster, in his case taking a country with him, and we are powerless to stop it.
At Ford, Mr. McNamara was eventually succeeded by Lee Iacocca, who more than anyone rehabilitated the image of the corporate star. It wasn't long after Mr. Bush and his C.E.O. team arrived in Washington that that image took its biggest hit in years, thanks to the new corporate whiz kids of the dot-com bubble, "The Smartest Guys in the Room," as the recent book by Fortune magazine's Bethany McLean and Peter Elkind calls Enron's executives. But the economy is up a bit now, and memories in this country are short. The new runaway hit of prime-time television is not "Arrested Development," the well-received sitcom about an incarcerated Enronesque C.E.O. and his family. It is instead "The Apprentice," in which Donald Trump, the first C.E.O. with his own reality show, is glorified for behaving in the imperial manner of Mr. McNamara in his heyday and Mr. Bush in "The Price of Loyalty": his executives speak only to second his motions.
It's all terribly entertaining, and at the very least, the star's hair deserves its own Golden Globe nomination. As a businessman serving his stockholders, Mr. Trump may even be as good as he thinks he is. But imagine him bringing the same management style into government at wartime, and you can picture his boardroom table of underlings nodding in agreement at the idea of donning a uniform for a premature victory jig on an aircraft carrier. That's why "The Apprentice" is, in its own farcical way, a valuable cautionary tale in its own right. Call it a "Fog of War" for dummies.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Scott Menchin)(pg. 20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); HISTORY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); MOVIE REVIEWS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%) Vietnam War; United States Politics and Government; Documentary Films and Programs; Motion Pictures 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); FRANK RICH (57%) Robert Mcnamara; Errol Morris; Frank Rich; John Fitzgerald (1917-63) Kennedy; Lyndon Baines (1908-73) Johnson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



644 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1929 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
If the Museum Itself Is an Artwork, What About the Art Inside?

BYLINE:  By ANN WILSON LLOYD; Ann Wilson Lloyd is the Boston correspondent for Art in America.

 BODY:
JUST three days into a new exhibition this past September, the Bellevue Art Museum in Bellevue, Wash., abruptly closed its doors and suspended programming. Among the reasons, according to an article in The Seattle Times, were regional financial woes, an unclear mission and leadership conflicts. But another, less familiar issue was also raised: the museum's building, a three-year-old avant-garde edifice designed by the New York architect Stephen Holl. As the article explained, public support for the new museum was weakened by "galleries poorly suited to traditional art shows."
 While the institution's past and present leaders are still assessing the situation, many -- including two former directors and the current board chairman -- acknowledge that the new building, with its expansive, soaring interior, called for programming that left local audiences disenchanted. 
 Bellevue may be the first casualty of a phenomenon known as the Bilbao effect: following the example set by Frank Gehry's Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, museums are commissioning high-style architecture that will not only raise the profile of the institution but boost the economy of the area. But in addition to spectacular architecture, this can also produce exhibition spaces less in service to works of art than in service to the building itself as art. 
The very public failure in Bellevue has sent a shudder through the museum world, especially in cities where capital campaigns for fancy new buildings, begun in a more robust economy, now face tough going. Publicly, few will admit to second thoughts. The leaders at the Bellevue Art Museum, though, have no choice.
Rick Collette, the museum's board president, insisted that officials were merely regrouping around the institution, which was founded 28 years ago.
"We have to rebuild our mission, be clear about it," he said, "rebuild our management, rebuild our board."
Even so, he said, architecture remains an issue: "Personally, I like the building, but it does present challenges, with very large spaces, high ceilings, glass and curved walls." The board's initial research, he said, indicates a desire in the community for less contemporary art and more traditional painting by Northwest artists and regional crafts like glass, basketry and textiles, which often require intimate settings.
Mr. Collette said that the museum's building committee had a vision when it chose Mr. Holl's design, but that perhaps it had not given enough consideration to the kind of art that would be shown in the spaces. "I personally wasn't involved," he said, "but today you look at the building and wonder how well thought out that was."
Mr. Holl countered that in Bellevue, "challenging architecture was the whole point."
"The building never was meant to be just a bland box of galleries," he said in a recent interview. "It was not designed for traditional gallery space as an end-all, but for the future of what Northwestern art could be, including digital, new media and installation art."
Mr. Holl said he had volunteered to lay out a plan for temporary, more traditional 20-by-20-foot galleries and had designed the main lateral structure to be as flexible as possible. "It's very disturbing that the museum closed, but it's really a trustee decision," he said. "They need to organize themselves."
Whatever the particularities of Bellevue's situation, Mr. Holl's building embodies many of the preferred attributes of avant-garde museum architects: big, volumetric voids designed for big, imposing artworks, as opposed to "bland box" backdrops or neutral containers. The aim is galleries that will be active rather than passive, that will become part of the art-making process, providing inspiration for artists who, ideally, will make site-specific works for the spaces. Thus new museums often end up with tall, irregularly shaped, light-filled chambers, with idiosyncratic features like curved walls, varying ceiling heights and odd corners. In the wing now under construction at the Denver Art Museum, designed by Daniel Libeskind, none of the exterior walls will meet the floors at right angles.
Faced with a new building's exotic features, some museum staff members may have quiet fits -- or just move on. Indeed, heavy staff turnover is a common consequence of major capital projects, so common that a recent article in Architectural Record magazine called it the "new building syndrome." Museum staff members frequently say that a backlash is likely to set in among curators who assume that only superstar architects and wealthy patrons will get to call the shots when designs are chosen.
"Avant-garde architects are making spaces that are sculptural, that they consider works of art," said Michael Auping, chief curator at the Modern Art Museum in Fort Worth. 
"But artists don't want to present their work in spaces that are very sculptural, or a space that's already considered to be a work of art. John Chamberlain, for instance, would not want his work presented inside a Richard Serra."
Regarding the trend toward huge galleries, he said: "Architects say, 'I know you need big, open, flexible spaces, then you can build walls when you need them.' Flexibility is a myth. When you do build walls inside these big spaces, it ends up looking like a trade show. Why not get it right from the get-go?"
Mr. Auping was able to work closely with the architect Tadao Ando during the five-year process of designing galleries for the new museum building that opened in Fort Worth last December.
"I said what I needed most is beautiful walls, not big spaces," he said. "I need a kind of compression, intimate spaces in which viewers can feel a physical relationship to the artworks. Natural light is another myth. You have to create a mix, so that it looks mostly natural, but really is mostly artificial. Natural light has to be controllable."
Mr. Auping is the envy of more than one curator who has felt ignored during a design process. "We're definitely a positive model," he said. "I was brought into the process early on, and put on the building committee. Usually the building committee consists of patrons and the director. But our director wanted me to be more responsible for the outcome.
"I acted as a kind of aesthetic lawyer, and my client is the artist. Ando understood that. But if the curator is not empowered to make the program known, it's easier for the architect to say, 'Let's get all these inconsequential people out of the way.' "
Susan Courtemanche, a New York-based consultant for nonprofit groups who is advising several museums with capital projects, said: "What I see happening in many institutions is what I call a one-off. It's the first time a team of people has ever done this, and they feel that if they build the iconic statement, people will come -- the Bilbao effect. But the community may only come once."
A major mistake, she said, was hiring the architect too soon, before the institutional team, including curators and other important staff, fully grasped what its audience would sustain. "Once that mission is solidly understood, a vision is then crafted for the future. It requires going back to your touchstone. Then you hire the architect, who will be in service to the institutional vision. Otherwise, the institution is supporting the architect's vision, and tension is inevitable."
Some curators stand up to the effects of high-profile architecture. In St. Louis, Brad Cloepfil's main-floor gallery at the new Contemporary Art Museum was designed to be wide open and virtually without walls until the curator, Shannon Fitzgerald, insisted on one long wall to accommodate the 11 artists in the building's inaugural show. "Brad wanted that wall to come down after the show, but I keep wondering how that would look then -- like a factory?" Ms. Fitzgerald said.
The exhibition spaces in St. Louis are also flooded with unscreened natural light from two huge window walls, which will necessitate rebuilding the inside space for a video show that was planned before the building opened last September. "I'm still thinking about how to control the light," Ms. Fitzgerald said. "Do you build heavy theatrical curtains every time? We're looking at filters or scrims, but it's a pretty big-budget concern. And now that it's winter, I'm tracking the light's movement across the walls, wondering, can you hanga Polaroid there?"
Despite its quirks, Ms. Fitzgerald said, "I think it's a great building; overall, it's artist-friendly." Artists are increasingly making art that is "space-driven" anyway, she said, and because of that, Mr. Cloepfil's architecture is having an impact on her planning. (The St. Louis museum, like the Bellevue, has no permanent collection.) "Just being in the empty galleries," she said, "I'm sparked to think of certain artists who would be great here."
But a more typical experience at institutions with collections might be that of Judith Fox, former curator at the Davis Museum at Wellesley College in Massachusetts. The main gallery in the museum's 1993 Rafael Moneo building ended up with 20-foot ceilings, even though 90 percent of the collection "is off the living room walls of Wellesley alumnae," Ms. Fox said, adding that a visitor once quipped that an exhibition of the permanent collection "looked like ring around the bathtub."
"You need an exhibition designer to create an environment for exhibitions of artworks not specifically designed for these unusual, large and open spaces, to shield the light, to bring down the ceilings," she said. "With budgets getting shorter, this is one more extra cost. And it's very hard to work with corners that meet in obtuse and acute angles when you're installing."
Ms. Fox, now an independent curator, had been working on an exhibition planned for Mr. Holl's Bellevue Art Museum. "There's a three- or four-story space shaped like a giant Chinese pea pod -- really tall," she said. "You have to do something really spectacular there." In Bellevue and elsewhere, she said, "avant-garde architecture does drive curatorial goals, and it therefore shapes the program."
The Bellevue museum's last director, Kathleen Harleman, who resigned in August shortly before the museum closed, agreed. But she also echoed Mr. Holl's contention that there was nothing wrong with provocative architecture. "The building did drive the program, but I think it was an exciting challenge," she said. "The boldness of the architecture needs to be matched with the boldness of the program." She was skeptical about the proposed new exhibition program of traditional arts and crafts. Small things in the galleries, she said, "tend to disappear on the walls; to leave a feeling of emptiness. And there are relatively limited places relegated for the display of art."
Ms. Harleman's predecessor, Diane Douglas, is credited with raising money and community support for the building project and with helping draft the museum's design and mission. Ms. Douglas disagreed with Mr. Collette, the current board president, that the building's architecture was in conflict with community expectations. "I felt there was a desire for architecture of distinction in the city," she said.
So why did the museum fail? Was it money? Mission? Programming? Architecture? "That would be my question," she said. "What was it? Do we have enough data to separate those strands?"
However, and whenever, things get sorted out in Bellevue, Mr. Holl's architecture will still have to be reckoned with. "The building is a strong statement, no doubt," Ms. Douglas said. "It's beautiful, a work of art in itself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An Anselm Kiefer sculpture at the new Modern Art Museum in Fort Worth, above, and a soaring exhibition space at the three-year-old Bellevue Art Museum, now closed. (Photo by Mark Graham for The New York Times); (Photo by Paul Warchol)(pg. 29); Michael Auping, chief curator at the Modern Art Museum in Fort Worth, wasallowed to have a voice in the design of a new building. (Photo by Mark Graham for The New York Times)(pg. 32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%) Art; Museums ; Architecture; Art; Museums ; Architecture

ORGANIZATION: Bellevue Art Museum; Bellevue Art Museum

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (70%) Stephen Holl; Ann Wilson Lloyd; Stephen Holl; Ann Wilson Lloyd

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



645 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
Explaining (or Not) Why the Boss Is Paid So Much

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
WITH proxy season nigh, it will soon be time to tally the chief executives whose 2003 pay was enough to feed and clothe the population of Haiti. 
 One person taking aim at egregious executive pay is Daniel J. Steininger, chairman of the Catholic Funds, a $30 million fund company in Milwaukee. He has submitted a proposal to limit the chief's pay at seven companies to a figure that is 100 times that of the average worker, unless shareholders approve more. If a company asks them for higher pay, it would have to list at least one performance goal that was reached mostly because of the chief executive. 
 "All we're asking is that the shareholders be allowed to vote on the compensation," Mr. Steininger said. "And if the C.E.O. is going to be paid more than 100 times the average worker, we want to know why."
The Steininger Seven are Cendant, Compuware, Delta Air Lines, the El Paso Corporation, International Paper, Sun Microsystems and Viacom. All were picked because their chiefs' pay had rocketed versus that of their average workers. 
The gap between chiefs' pay and that of lower-level workers has yawned in recent years. J.P. Morgan, the financier, is credited with suggesting that executives earn no more than 20 times the pay of low-level workers. How quaint: a 2000 study by Towers Perrin showed that chiefs at big domestic companies earned 531 times what their hourly employees did, on average. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission must decide whether the proposal will be included in the seven companies' proxy materials and put to shareholder votes. 
In a letter asking the S.E.C. to exclude the proposal, Cendant said it would "impose a constraint" on the salary of its chief executive, Henry R. Silverman, cutting it to $2.7 million a year from the $3.3 million promised annually until 2012. And Mr. Silverman would lose his annual bonus of $100,000 for each penny a share that Cendant earns.
Of course, Mr. Silverman could cut his pay to zero and not face the poorhouse. Brian Foley, a compensation expert in White Plains, said that from 1998 to 2002, Mr. Silverman received $36.6 million in salary and bonus and reaped $223 million from exercising options. He had unexercised options worth $46 million, and his life is insured for $100 million, at a cost to shareholders of $6.5 million. And Cendant will pay Mr. Silverman $83,000 a month after retirement. 
For him to earn all that, his performance must surely be clear and measurable. But Cendant's letter to the S.E.C. calls the fund's proposal too subjective: "How will the company distinguish between those achievements stemming from the C.E.O.'s contribution versus those that are a result of favorable economic conditions or other factors?" That is precisely what critics of executive pay have wondered for years. 
James E. Buckman, the general counsel at Cendant, said that Mr. Silverman's pay was justified by his leadership skills and his ability to bring people together to make decisions.
"In terms of the performance of the company, we're saying that in reality you cannot pinpoint performance based on the efforts of one particular person," Mr. Buckman said. 
But they sure are good at pinpointing one particular person's pay. 
The S.E.C. has asked Mr. Steininger to revise his proposal to address future pay at Cendant. His quest may be quixotic, but his message resonates.
"We're trying to get at the notion of economic injustice in what the C.E.O. is making compared to the average worker," he said. "It's bad for the long-term performance of a company because it breaches the trust between top management and the people who work for them."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Pay Gap"Chief executive pay as a multiple of employee average. United States: 531Brazil: 57Mexico: 45Britain: 25Canada: 21France: 16Germany: 11Japan: 10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); BONUS PAY (78%); APPROVALS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Executives and Management; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: EL PASO CORP (69%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); VIACOM INC (55%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) Catholic Funds

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (56%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (69%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: HENRY R SILVERMAN (79%) Gretchen Morgenson; Daniel J Steininger

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (91%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



646 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
After the Shouting, Books That Soothe

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER S. STEWART

 BODY:
THERE was a time, back in the days of the stock market bubble, when books by executives like Jack Welch, Sumner Redstone and Michael Eisner extolled their own triumphs, or at least promised to let readers in on the secrets behind the miracles they worked. 
 But with blatant displays of corporate greed undercutting the status of chief executives in general, there is another prototype emerging: executives who, instead of focusing on themselves, are writing books that offer pragmatic, even humble, suggestions on how to succeed. And, in some cases, "success" may not even be defined in terms of business performance. 
 Many of the new books by executives are "less on personality and more on nuts-and-bolts issues," said Steve Ross, publisher of Crown books. "There is much more of an interest in proven principles than the thinking you had a couple years ago." 
In the latest crop of executive books, many of the successes seem to be found in understanding what has gone wrong in the business world and using that knowledge to try to improve things. "What was going on in corporate America and, really, culture in general started to grate on me," said Charles Patrick Garcia, founder of the Sterling Financial Group and a recent author. "The message seemed to be: Lie, cheat and steal and you come away with a million dollars." He said he started thinking, "Is there a general ethical malaise here?"
Mr. Garcia, a decorated naval officer and a former White House fellow, says he wrote "Message From Garcia," a collection of success stories from people of various backgrounds, as an antidote to the business world. "It's not a finance book," he said. "It's about being successful in life. Success is not about money, but about pursuing your calling." Published in September, the book spent the last week of October at No.6 on the business best-seller list of The Wall Street Journal.
Jeffrey W. Brown, vice president for business publishing at John Wiley & Sons, which published Mr. Garcia's book, said that there were larger trends at work as well. "Part of the growth of self-help books is an age issue, with boomer executives who reached a certain level and are wondering what to do next," he said.
"You also have the downturn and the Enrons," he added. "A lot has happened in the last few years. And people are writing about how to get through the tough times."
Mr. Brown says he has seen an increase of roughly 30 percent in proposals for self-help business books since the late 1990's, when publishing lists for business books were full of day-trading guides and cult-of-personality memoirs.
According to Bowker's Books in Print, the business memoir peaked in 2001, at 142 books. Last year, the number was down to 104.
For example, Mr. Welch's book, "Jack: Straight From the Gut," was a marketing phenomenon that made it to No.1 on many best-seller lists in 2001. Yet a tale of the corporate success of another prominent executive, "Softwar: An Intimate Portrait of Larry Ellison and Oracle" (Simon & Schuster), which came out in October, has failed to catch fire and now ranks below 3,000th on Amazon.
Bennett Neiman, senior vice president of Partners International, an outplacement firm in New York, says he wrote his business book, "Slay the Dragons -- Free the Genie" as a way "to codify what I believe in." He says that there is too much negativity and cynicism in the business world.
"I had a sort of midlife crisis," said Mr. Neiman, explaining how he had come to write the book, which he will publish himself next month. That crisis also resulted in his selling his advertising firm in St. Louis and getting a divorce, he said. "There is just something fundamentally wrong with how grown-ups act in work," Mr. Neiman said. "When you get into the business world, you check your hearts at the door."
Publishing experts say that there are probably many executives who, like Mr. Neiman, turn to self-publishing after finding that mainstream publishers rarely accept the works of someone who is neither famous nor well known on the speaking circuit. No one tracks self-published business books specifically, but Xlibris, a print-on-demand company, has noticed an increase of about 40 percent in the overall self-help category in the last year.
Jan Miller, a literary agent in Dallas who represents big sellers like Phil McGraw, known as Dr. Phil, said she was approached recently by a number of executives who wanted to purge their pasts. 
"We've already received calls from guys who have served time for corporate greed and want to write about it -- how large is that market?" she said. "A book about how not to steal from your company? How it feels when you get out of jail for fraud?" Ms. Miller said she did not take on the men as clients.
WILL WILLIS JR. is hoping that his book will clean the slate, in his case over his pattern of adultery, which ended two of his marriages while he was a division president of the Mennen Company and, later, president of the Jeno's Frozen Pizza Company. He blames his own deceptiveness rather than his high-powered career, and he has written a book telling women how to keep an eye on the highflying executives in their lives. 
"A couple times I stopped writing because of how embarrassing the things were I was writing," said Mr. Willis, now president of On-Site Analysis Inc., a Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., manufacturer of diagnostic instruments for cars. "But I had to write this. I wanted women like my daughters to see what man not to marry." 
The book, "Secrets Men Don't Want Women to Know," which Mr. Willis published himself in October, is meant to help women navigate bad relationships by giving them clues to what men are thinking and doing when they are unfaithful, he said. So far, it has nearly sold out of its first printing of 7,000, he says, and he has ordered an additional 10,000 copies.
Why would anyone want to read such a book? "Why do software companies hire hackers to develop software?" he asked rhetorically. "The reality is I know how to break the code. The only way to know about something that went wrong is to talk to a guy who's been there. I'm living proof."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Patrick Garcia has written a book that is less about chronicling his own business success and more about life lessons he has learned. (Photo by Andrew Itkoff for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); WRITERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); ETHICS (74%); BESTSELLERS (73%); TRENDS (67%) Executives and Management; Books and Literature

COMPANY: CROWN BOOKS CORP (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (52%)

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (52%); JWA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (56%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (56%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: SUMNER REDSTONE (73%); JACK WELCH (73%) Christopher S Stewart

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



647 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Sluggish Start for Offer Of Tax Credit for Insurance 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
A program offering tax credits to jobless workers to buy health insurance has gotten off to a slow, sputtering start, despite energetic efforts by Bush administration officials who want the program to succeed as a model for a much more ambitious effort to help the uninsured.
 The program, the Health Coverage Tax Credit, was created in 2002 to aid workers who lose jobs because of foreign imports. 
 With health care shaping up as a big issue in this year's elections, President Bush and other Republicans see the program as an important prototype. They hope to give similar tax credits to a much larger swath of the uninsured population, which exceeds 43 million.
Administration officials have hailed the program for displaced workers. In a letter to governors last February, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow and Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, said the tax credit "could help over 500,000 Americans each year." And Mr. Snow described it last summer as "a real innovation in tax policy, a bold step in the direction of affordable health care for all Americans." 
But the results to date are modest, in part because displaced workers are still required to spend substantial amounts of money on insurance premiums before they can get the benefits of the tax credit.
At the end of December, the Bush administration said, only 8,374 workers were receiving tax credits for health insurance under the program. The total number of people taking advantage of the program, including dependents, is perhaps 25,000, or 5 percent of thoseexpected to benefit.
While the program has yet to enjoy wide success, President Bush proposed wider use of tax credits in his State of the Union address on Tuesday and in his weekly radio address on Saturday.
"I ask you to give lower-income Americans a refundable tax credit that would allow millions to buy their own basic health insurance," Mr. Bush said in his speech to Congress.
Under the existing program, tax credits will pay 65 percent of the premium for health insurance bought by a displaced worker. The individual must pay the other 35 percent, and that has proved an insurmountable hurdle for some workers.
"The tax credit would help if the insurance rates were affordable, but the rates were so high that I couldn't afford it," said Gloria J. Craven, 51, of Eden, N.C. "Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina stepped forward to help the textile workers here. But when people started getting price quotes, we realized that we could not pay our share of the premiums."
Mrs. Craven said she and her 61-year-old husband had lost their jobs in a Pillowtex mill where they worked for three decades. She has asthma. He is diabetic and has had a heart attack. Mrs. Craven said the premiums for the insurance offered to them ranged from $1,700 to $5,400 a month. Their share of the premiums would be $595 to $1,890 a month.
The couple, drawing $416 a month in unemployment benefits, was in no position to pay such costs, Mrs. Craven said.
Federal officials estimate that 14,000 workers are eligible for the tax credit in North Carolina. Michelle Douglas, a spokeswoman for Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina, said 1,800 workers had signed up for the health plan offered to displaced workers.
"There is a product available, but it's not as affordable as we had hoped," Ms. Douglas said.
The tax credit was approved by Congress as part of a trade bill that gave the president broad authority to negotiate trade deals.
Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, one of the chief proponents of the tax credit, said: "We have to find out immediately what's limiting the success of this program. We are talking about health insurance for people who have lost their jobs. The delays are troubling and unacceptable."
Ms. Snowe said Maine had lost nearly one-fourth of its manufacturing jobs since 2000. Federal officials estimate that 2,000 people are eligible for the tax credit there. State officials say the number could be as high as 13,000.
But Ellen J. Schneiter, an aide to Gov. John Baldacci of Maine, a Democrat, said that fewer than 200 people were using the tax credit.
"We thought these folks were really hungry for health care coverage, but they can't pay their 35 percent share," Ms. Schneiter said. The premium for a family that includes a person over the age of 55 is $1,500 a month, or $18,000 a year, she said.
Federal officials said the average premium for family coverage under state-based health insurance programs was about $800 a month, or $9,600 a year.
Eligible individuals can claim the credit when they file their tax returns, or they can get it in advance, by arranging for the Treasury Department to make monthly payments to insurers. The credit is available to taxpayers and to those who do not owe federal income tax.
Roy J. Ramthun, senior adviser on health initiatives at the Treasury, said: "We are surprised that more people have not signed up for the advance payment option. We've tried to do everything we can to make the process of qualifying for the credit as simple as possible."
The credit is available not only to workers laid off because of foreign competition, but also to some retirees who receive payments from the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation because of the failure of their pension plans.
But so far, only 29 states have taken action to designate health plans that will provide coverage to people receiving the tax credit.
As a result, "an eligible individual may have a 65 percent tax credit, but no place to spend it," said Janet S. Trautwein, vice president of the National Association of Health Underwriters.
In Texas, the federal government estimates that more than 8,600 people are eligible. But only 29 people are receiving it, according to Margaret Jarvis, a spokeswoman for Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Texas, which operates the health plan for displaced workers.
"We expect the program to grow," Ms. Jarvis said, "but there's nothing we're doing to promote it."
In New York, Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield says that fewer than 10 people are taking advantage of its program for displaced workers.
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Michigan says that more than 7,500 workers are eligible, but only 420 have signed up. The premium for a comprehensive family policy is $1,074 a month.
"If you're out of work, you might not be able to afford your share of that, $375 a month," said Timothy P. Cook, a spokesman for Michigan Blue Cross.
Federal officials said they had made substantial progress, setting up telephone call centers and establishing procedures for the Treasury to make monthly payments.
"We have demonstrated that the model works," said Ruben J. King-Shaw Jr., who ran the program for the Bush administration until he left the government in August. "For the first time, tax credits are being used to address the problems of the uninsured. But workers are still finding out about the program. And some states have been more aggressive than others in making an insurance product available."
The Children's Health Insurance Program, created by Congress in 1997, was also slow in getting started, federal and state officials recalled, but enrollment has increased.
In Illinois, Thomas F. Jerkovitz, executive director of the state's Comprehensive Health Insurance Plan, said he was puzzled by the fact that only 345 of the 12,000 workers eligible for the tax credit had enrolled. "We are scratching our heads," Mr. Jerkovitz said.
In Ohio, 835 people have signed up. The federal government says more than 16,000 are eligible.
Ann Womer Benjamin, director of the Ohio Insurance Department, said: "I've been a bit disappointed. This is a very positive program with great potential, but we have to do more to publicize it and to reach people who may be eligible."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gloria J. Craven of Eden, N.C., said she and her husband cannot pay their share of insurance costs. (Photo by Jim Stratford for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); DISMISSALS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); TEXTILES (60%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Tax Credits; Taxation; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



648 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Calls for More Unity In Fight Against Terrorism 

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT and MARK LANDLER; Alan Cowell contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
Vice President Dick Cheney called Saturday for greater global unity to fight terrorism, halt the spread of illicit weapons and promote democratic trends in the Middle East, in the Bush administration's most significant appeal yet to disaffected allies who opposed the Iraq war.
 Mr. Cheney, one of President Bush's most influential senior advisers, defended the administration's decision to topple Saddam Hussein. But in a rare trip outside the United States, he also sought to mend rifts over the war, striking a conciliatory tone in seeking help from Europeans and other traditional allies to strengthen the global partnership against an array of security threats. 
 In a wide-ranging address to about 1,000 political, business and religious leaders at an international conference here in the Alps, Mr. Cheney asked European allies to join the United States to promote democratic movements in Iran, to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian dispute and to combat the root cause of terrorism by helping to overcome what he called the "freedom deficit" in many Middle Eastern countries. 
"We must meet the dangers together," Mr. Cheney said in his 30-minute speech to the gathering, the annual World Economic Forum. "Cooperation among our governments, and effective international institutions, are even more important than they have been in the past."
Mr. Cheney continued, "Working cooperatively against the dangers of a new era will place demands on us all, and there will be occasional differences, even among allies who have great respect for one another."
The administration's choice of Mr. Cheney to lead its delegation here may seem improbable, given his low profile and hard-line reputation. Mr. Cheney was making only his second international trip in three years as vice president, and remains an enigma to many Europeans and other foreigners. The White House also generally avoids the kinds of issues this conference champions, like globalization and multilateral diplomacy.
But aides to Mr. Cheney said he was eager to come, both out of an interest in meeting with world political and business leaders, including King Abdullah of Jordan and Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharaf, and to soften Mr. Bush's international image and to reassure allies that the United States was not pursuing a unilateral security strategy.
Responding to a question after his speech, Mr. Cheney sought to dispel perceptions that the United States was empire-building. "If we were a true empire, we would currently preside over a much greater piece of the earth's surface than we do," he said. "That's not the way we operate."
Last year, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell spoke at the conference, drawing a skeptical response when he laid out the case for military action in Iraq, even without a United Nations mandate. Mr. Cheney received polite, but perfunctory, applause on Saturday as he sought to patch up strains with European allies over the Iraq war, stricter visa requirements and the treatment of detainees at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Klaus Zumwinkel, chairman of the German postal service, Deutsche Post, said that Mr. Cheney "increased the market share of positive sentiment toward the United States."
While other listeners took note of Mr. Cheney's conciliatory tone, some were suspicious of his motives.
"This overture comes during an election year," said Carel N. Van Der Spek, a Dutch banker. "The Bush administration wants to draw down its troops in Iraq, and to do that, it needs helps from Europe."
Dominique Borde, a French law firm partner, praised Mr. Cheney's tone. But he said the vice president offered little evidence that the United States planned to pay more heed to France or other allies in formulating its foreign policy.
"This is a world where economic might prevails," Mr. Borde said. "We're not run by an empire. We're run by a democracy."
Speaking at a dinner for journalists, the financier George Soros said administration officials have "recognized the mistakes they have made, and now realize that they need international cooperation," but "there is a big gap between the words of the Bush administration and its actions."
In his remarks, Mr. Cheney offered no specific initiatives, instead proposing democratic reforms like greater political participation and the rule of law as a broad prescription for "confronting the ideologies of violence" and addressing the root causes of terrorism. "Helping the peoples of the greater Middle East to overcome the freedom deficit is, ultimately, the key to winning the broader war on terror," he said.
Even as Mr. Cheney proposed a rhetorical truce in the trans-Atlantic feud over Iraq and new courses of action ahead, he offered an unapologetic defense of the administration's threat to use military force, if necessary, whenever diplomacy fails.
Mr. Cheney, echoing themes in Mr. Bush's State of the Union address last Tuesday, cited the ouster of the Taliban in Afghanistan and the end of Mr. Hussein's rule in Iraq as examples of the strategy's success.
The recent decision by the Libyan president, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, to give up his nation's illicit weapons programs, was the result of quiet diplomacy backed up by the threat of force, Mr. Cheney said.
"Our diplomacy with Libya was successful only because our word was credible," he said.
He did not address the issue of Iraq's elusive unconventional weapons, and was not asked about them during a brief question-and-answer period after his remarks. David Kay, who led the American effort to find banned weapons in Iraq, said Friday after stepping down from his post that he had concluded that Iraq had no stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons at the start of the war.
Mr. Cheney's remarks appeared to build on themes Mr. Bush voiced in a speech on Nov. 21 in Britain, when he said France and Germany, which have been reluctant to take part in stabilizing Iraq, should recall the lessons of World War II, when an Allied effort defeated Nazi tyranny in Europe and paved the way there for postwar security and prosperity.
Mr. Cheney again invoked World War II, and noted that American and European intelligence and law enforcement agencies were working together to hunt down terrorists.
"Through six decades and 12 American presidents, the United States and Europe have faced monumental challenges and have overcome them together," he declared.
But he called on Europe to do more: "Europeans know that their great experiment in building peace, unity and prosperity cannot survive as a privileged enclave, surrounded on its outskirts by breeding grounds of hatred and fanatics."
Mr. Cheney listed several positive security developments, including Mr. Hussein's capture, the new democratic Constitution in Afghanistan, and the easing of tensions between India and Pakistan.
But he said terrorist groups still posed a long-term threat, given their determination to develop or acquire chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear weapons.
"Were they to gain those weapons either by their own efforts or with the help from an outlaw regime, no appeal to reason or morality would prevent them from committing the worst of terrors," he said.
Mr. Cheney put a new emphasis on promoting democratic values as a way to defeat terrorism. This appeared to answer criticism from foreign officials that the administration's strategy for combating terrorism was too narrow.
"Democracies do not breed the anger and radicalism that drag down whole societies or export violence," Mr. Cheney said. "Terrorists do not find fertile recruiting grounds in societies where young people have the right to guide their own destinies and to choose their own leaders."
The notion that democratic values could never take root in the Middle East was "condescending" and "false," he said. He cited broader women's rights in Morocco, as well as reduced state controls on news organizations in Jordan and increased opportunities for women to run for public office in Bahrain.
Kenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, applauded Mr. Cheney for pressing for democracy in the Arab world, though he said he was disappointed by most of the speech, which he said was notable for its "complete lack of reference to international law."
Some Arab members of the audience said the United States must step in more forcefully to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian dispute, if it wanted to hasten the development of democracy in the Middle East.
"Reform is like a seed you plant," said Nadim Y. Muasher, the chairman of the Arab International Hotels Company in Jordan. "If you plant it between two rocks -- Israel and Palestine -- it won't grow."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); RELIGION (54%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

COMPANY: BUSH'S INTERNATIONAL PTY LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (82%) World Economic Forum

INDUSTRY: NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (58%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (58%); SIC2013 SAUSAGES & OTHER PREPARED MEAT PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Eric Schmitt; Mark Landler; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); ALPS (56%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) Europe; Middle East; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



649 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Uneasy Lies the Head at 10 Downing

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
SINCE becoming prime minister in 1997, Tony Blair has proved the most successful and popular Labor leader of the last century, yet there are whispers in his own party that he could be out of office by Easter.
 "If Blair is out next week, there probably won't be any tears outside his family because it is a ruthless system and it's the way the system works," said Iain McLean, professor of politics at Oxford University. 
 Whatever it is about British politics and the parliamentary system that deliver abrupt and surprising reversals of political fortune seems to be at work again. Mr. Blair has proved nimble at brilliant reinventions in the past, but the question remains: Can he outrun British democracy's penchant for fatigue, which has sometimes claimed leaders at the most surprising times? 
In May 1945, Winston Churchill was at the apex of power after Germany's surrender. And with Franklin Roosevelt's death the month before, Mr. Churchill was the West's icon of allied victory.
Yet before the month was out, he was forced to resign as prime minister, and the Labor Party soon swept into office under Clement Attlee. 
In 1990, Margaret Thatcher suffered a similar indignity after winning three terms for her party, presiding with Ronald Reagan at the burial of Communism in Europe and privatizing much of the British economy.
In August she was telling the first President Bush, with Churchillian verve, not to go "wobbly" in the face of Saddam Hussein invasion of Kuwait. But by November she was political toast, overthrown by Tory rebels and replaced by John Major.
"I was visiting at Stanford University in 1990 and my colleagues had no idea" that Mrs. Thatcher was teetering, said Professor McLean.
"It was Thanksgiving, so there was no one around to explain," he added. "So I was briefly a pundit." 
Like Churchill and Lady Thatcher before him, Mr. Blair has set records for longevity and led his nation into war. He returned the Labor Party to a prominence it had not enjoyed in 101 years with two landslide victories. Large Labor majorities took control of the House of Commons, and almost every city, town and shire overturned the Tory supremacy in British life.
But his war leadership in Iraq has made him deeply unpopular with a large segment of the public, even though opinion polls still show that a plurality of Britons back his decision to go to war to remove Mr. Hussein. This rising vulnerability has emboldened discontented rebels in his own party, many of whom have been passed over or thrown out of ministerial posts; others simply see Mr. Blair's pragmatic and centrist policies as pandering to big business and middle-class Tory constituencies. And his close alliance with President George W. Bush has added to that unpopularity.
On Wednesday, the prominent jurist Lord Hutton will render his judgment on whether Mr. Blair misled the public on the threat from Iraq, and whether the prime minister's aides suborned the intelligence agencies to exaggerate evidence or contributed to the circumstances that led a prominent weapons scientist, David Kelly, to commit suicide.
Whether Mr. Blair is vindicated or excoriated in the verdict, his leadership , is sure to be tested this week -- by the debates that are certain to follow and by parliament's vote on another issue, a controversial plan to reapportion the costs of university education.
Few American presidents, except perhaps Richard Nixon when he realized Congress had the votes and the will to impeach him, experience the slippery slope of untimed political collapse. The fixed terms of American politics may not be a superior form of democracy, but terms do create predictability and order. 
"Nixon was really the exception in American politics, and it was really traumatic," said David Holloway, an Irish-born political scientist who now teaches history at Stanford. In the American system the president is chief executive and head of state, he adds, creating an almost imperial aura around the office. "You don't get that with a prime minister," he said. "Changing the prime minister is something you can talk about in Britain, and it is not a national crisis." 
Still, in Britain, there is something Darwinian about it all, as if the prime minister is selected for extinction on the day of his election because even a popular leader will suffer the teeth marks and scratches of legislative struggles, cabinet reshuffles and press strafing, all of which add up to political death by 1,000 cuts. 
Prof. Vernon Bogdanor, who teaches politics and government at Oxford, calls it the unpredictable shelf life of a prime minister. 
"The sort of events that lead to the collapse of governments are usually unforeseen, and they can cause shifts in public opinion very rapidly," he said.
For Edward Heath, a Tory who was prime minister from 1970 to 1974, the increase in oil prices in 1973 emboldened striking coal miners and hastened economic calamity, Professor Bogdanor said, and the government was judged incompetent. The Labor prime minister, James Callaghan, was upended in 1979 after a winter when huge public-sector strikes left corpses unburied and rats in the street.
IT is impossible to predict the convergence that leads to collapse.
When Mrs. Thatcher saw the revolt in her party coming -- over her perceived arrogance and, perhaps most damaging, her pursuit of a local poll tax that ignited revolt from suburb to glen -- she seemed flummoxed by the loss of control.
"Politics entered one of those febrile nervous phases in which events seem to be moving towards some momentous but unknowable climax almost independent of the wishes of the actors," she wrote in her memoir, "The Downing Street Years." 
As for Mr. Blair, many in his party seem ready to write his political obituary and stake their future on Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the exchequer who was the prime minister's intellectual partner in reinventing Labor. But there is also strong political betting that Mr. Blair will not disappear in a puff of backroom parliamentary smoke. One reason is Mr. Blair himself, a skilled politician with the chameleon-like qualities of his old mentor, Bill Clinton: to triangulate, adapt and position himself just above the map coordinates where the national psyche is anchored. 
Even if he does survive, the prospect of a scorching political verdict ringing out from the Royal Courts of Justice this week demonstrates how British leaders -- without fixed terms and ever dependent on the shifting loyalties within their party and the vagaries of public opinion -- -are never as far from the abyss as they would like -- or make themselves out -- to be.

GRAPHIC: Photos: When the British become tired of their leaders, they can become really tired really suddenly. Can Tony Blair, who is now under attack , escape the fate met a decade ago by Margaret Thatcher and in 1945 by Winston Churchill? (Photo by Associated Press); (Photo by Victor Patterson); (Photo by Imperial War Museum) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (52%) Politics and Government; Public Opinion; Elections

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Tony (Prime Min) Blair; Margaret H (Lady Thatcher) Thatcher; Winston Leonard Spencer (Sir) (1874-1965) Churchill; Patrick E Tyler

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



650 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Many Are Surprised By Bold Decisions Of the Bush F.D.A. 

BYLINE:  By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Some people thought they knew what to expect of the Food and Drug Administration under President Bush: It would be attuned to business and sensitive to religious conservatives. It would put off difficult decisions and issue fewer regulations. 
 Its commissioner, Dr. Mark B. McClellan, is a Republican and the brother of Mr. Bush's press secretary. Traditional Republican supporters, like large drug companies, praise him, so it might seem predictable that he would take a strong stand as he is doing this week against importing prescription drugs from Canada, a practice that undercuts prices here. But the decision has also put him in conflict with several governors -- some of them Republican -- and legislators who want cheaper drugs from Canada. 
 A number of other decisions by Dr. McClellan have kept the Food and Drug Administration in the spotlight as one of the more activist agencies in the Bush administration. Granted, critics say that some of the rulings -- like banning ephedra -- were years in the making, but other people note that unlike, say, the Environmental Protection Agency, the F.D.A. has not seemed in retrenchment on regulatory matters. 
The agency's announcement last month that it would prohibit the sale of ephedra was a move sought by liberal Democrats like Senator Edward M. Kennedy and consumer groups like Public Citizen's Health Research Group. It was just the beginning of a crackdown on supplements, Dr. McClellan promised. 
"While most supplements are probably safe in the dose people take them, we are concerned about a number of other dietary supplements that are currently on the market," he said in a speech Tuesday. "And we intend to do more to take a closer look at them."
In another move that could be construed as hindering business, Dr. McClellan deferred a decision on whether to allow silicone breast implants back on the market after more than a decade-long hiatus. He said the F.D.A. needed more data on safety. 
"I've been pleasantly surprised," said Cynthia Pearson, executive director of the National Women's Health Network, which wanted ephedra banned and more data on implants.
Other F.D.A. watchers were surprised when the agency signaled a willingness to consider allowing a prescription morning-after pill, called Plan B, to be sold over the counter.
Women's groups, like the National Women's Health Network, strongly support making Plan B available over the counter, but some religious groups strongly oppose it. Believing that pregnancy begins with fertilization, they say the pill can prevent a fertilized egg from implanting, and so it induces abortion. 
But the agency put on its advisory committee people known to support offering the pill over the counter. And the committee voted overwhelmingly to make it available without a prescription.
"Miraculously, I was appointed to the committee," said Dr. James Trussell of Princeton University, who has always wanted the drug to be offered over the counter.
Some consumer groups argue that the Food and Drug Administration is too cozy with the industries it regulates. In fact, even industry groups that appear to have been hurt by some of Dr. McClellan's decisions speak well of his approach to the job. 
He "isn't what most people would have expected from a Republican administration," said Dr. Annette Dickinson, president of the Council for Responsible Nutrition, a trade group for the dietary supplement industry. But, she said, "he's been a breath of fresh air."
She said her group wanted the agency to stop supplement makers from making false health claims or flouting good manufacturing practices, and supported the ephedra ban.
Others regulated by the F.D.A. like the attention they are getting.
Dr. Rhona Applebaum, the executive vice president and chief scientific officer of the National Food Processors Association, said that in her 20 years in the industry, she had never seen an F.D.A. commissioner pay so much heed to food. "So yeah, we're pretty excited," she said. 
Part of Dr. McClellan's success, said Dr. Alan M. Garber, an internist and economist at Stanford, is that he is a pragmatist, not an ideologue.
He also has a style that can be immensely appealing. 
"McClellan is so personable and comes across as a person of such great integrity that it's hard to find somebody who says something negative," said Wayne Pines, who was the agency's associate commissioner for public affairs under Dr. David A. Kessler, who is now a consultant to companies dealing with the F.D.A. 
The same cannot be said of Dr. Kessler, who served under President Bill Clinton and the first President Bush and angered industry officials by halting the sale of silicone breast implants and seeking to regulate tobacco as a drug.
Dan Cohen, the new vice president for global government affairs at Inamed, which the F.D.A. told to do more research if it wanted to return its silicone breast implants to the market, said Dr. Kessler was "overly political, capricious, and didn't seem to have science at heart as opposed to an agenda."
Dr. Kessler would not discuss how his management style differed from Dr. McClellan's, but he did compliment his decisions on breast implants and supplements. "He got it right," Dr. Kessler said. 
In a telephone interview, Dr. McClellan said he was surprised to be so roundly praised.
"I thought I managed to tick everybody off," he said. "It's one of the things that's kind of freeing about this job. We get criticized no matter what we do." But, he said, he wants to continue the agency's long tradition of "getting the science right."
"A lot of people have a pretty cynical view of Washington, but I really don't," Dr. McClellan said. 
Some find him hard to pigeonhole.
For example, consumer groups objected and large drug companies applauded when he warned that it was illegal to import prescription drugs from Canada. But the opposite happened when he changed regulations to make generic drugs available sooner when a drug's patent expired.
With foods, Dr. McClellan and his staff examined whether nutritional science could justify new claims. In the first change to food labels in a decade, last year he announced a proposal for labels to list so-called trans fats, which can increase cholesterol levels, a move that angered some companies. But, in an action favored by food manufacturers, he would allow them to list qualified claims about the health benefits of foods and nutrients. 
In the case of dietary supplements, Dr. McClellan's proposal last month to ban ephedra got most of the attention.
But that, he said, "was just the tip of the iceberg." He said he had also issued 75 warning letters to supplement makers -- a fivefold increase from 2002, before he took office -- and seized millions of dollars worth of supplements that made false health claims or that were unapproved drugs masquerading as supplements.
At the same time, the agency's actions on contentious women's health issues have been watched closely from all sides. 
For example, Dr. McClellan insisted that all hormone pills to ease menopause symptoms include hard-to-miss warning labels about their risks for cancer and heart disease. He also has not bowed to pressure from groups that say that mifepristone, a drug once known as RU-486 and approved in 2002 to induce abortions early in pregnancy, is unsafe. 
But for all the examples of his attention to regulation, some consumer advocates say he should be doing more.
Dr. Michael F. Jacobson, the executive director of the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer advocacy group, said he saw "a real pattern of actions that undercut the public's health." He said of the plan to allow more health claims on food labels, for example, that Dr. McClellan was "just ignoring the law." His group and Public Citizen, another advocacy group, have sued the agency over such labeling.
Mr. Pines, the former assistant commissioner, said that while advocacy groups had raised objections and sued the agency no matter who was commissioner, the striking and reassuring fact was that "the F.D.A. continues to make decisions based on the public health."
"Any administration coming in can certainly change some of the nuances," he said. "But it's too big a ship to turn in a new direction."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 27, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Sunday about Dr. Mark B. McClellan, commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, with an article about his agency's increasing boldness, referred incorrectly in some copies to the setting of a meeting between him and President Bush. It took place in the White House when Mr. McClellan was appointed, not at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Mark B. McClellan, commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, last week. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); RELIGION (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); WOMEN (70%); CONTRACEPTION (64%); ABORTION (60%) Medicine and Health; Consumer Protection; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (54%) Food and Drug Administration

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TED KENNEDY (58%) Gina Kolata; Mark B (Comr) Mcclellan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (74%) UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



651 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2183 words

HEADLINE: The Stewart Trial's Other Star 

BYLINE:  By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
ON a brutally cold winter day last week, Peter E. Bacanovic trudged up the stairs of United States District Court in Lower Manhattan. Passing through the clamorous gantlet of cameramen, Mr. Bacanovic, Martha Stewart's former broker, stared directly ahead, stone-faced and pale.
 Minutes later, Ms. Stewart showed up. Unlike Mr. Bacanovic, she played to the crowd, offering up a demure smile as the morning sun caught the blond streaks in her perfect head of hair. 
 As always, the spotlight will be on Ms. Stewart this Tuesday when her high-powered legal team presents the opening statement in her defense. Less at ease in the public glare will be Mr. Bacanovic, a denizen of the Upper East Side of Manhattan, whose ties with Ms. Stewart and a roster of other wealthy clients made him a rising star at Merrill Lynch. 
Once her broker, Mr. Bacanovic is now playing a far more crucial role as Ms. Stewart's chief alibi. From the beginning, he has contended that he and Ms. Stewart had a pre-existing agreement that she would sell her 3,928 shares in ImClone Systems if the stock breached $60.
Prosecutors will assert that no such agreement existed and that Mr. Bacanovic and Ms. Stewart conspired to concoct such a pact to defend themselves against what they thought would be insider-trading charges after her sale of the shares.
In many ways, the fates of Ms. Stewart and Mr. Bacanovic hinge on whether a jury believes Mr. Bacanovic's contention. Each could face a long sentence if found guilty of the charges against them, obstruction of justice and perjury. 
Over the last months, Ms. Stewart, who has a net worth of close to half a billion dollars, has started a campaign to restore her public image with several television interviews, a public relations team and a Web site. Mr. Bacanovic, however, has remained a mystery, disappearing from the New York social scene that was once a central part of his life. He has granted no interviews and has spent much of the last year living in virtual seclusion, abandoning his Manhattan town house to live with friends in Los Angeles as he worked with his lawyers to prepare for the trial of his life.
Mr. Bacanovic declined to comment for this article, but a number of his friends and former clients did. Many of them complain that Mr. Bacanovic has been lampooned in the news media as a society lightweight, cited more for his squiring of Park Avenue grandes dames than for his considerable accomplishments as one of Merrill Lynch's top-performing brokers.
They say that Mr. Bacanovic, with his finely tuned social antennae, has been devastated by this portrayal. So much so that for the last two years he has run in fear from prying cameras; in the past, he often had a warm smile for the odd society paparazzo. 
"It is as if they have created a cartoon character; it seems as if he is a glorified lap dog," said Pamela Clarke Keogh, an author and friend. "There is much more to his life than escorting Nan Kempner to the ballet."
And while it is true that he is close to Ms. Kempner, the Manhattan socialite ("He is like my fourth child," she said. "He wouldn't hurt a fly.") Mr. Bacanovic's friends paint a picture of him as a deeper soul, with interests and relationships that extend beyond his uptown stomping grounds.
By all accounts, the last two years have been traumatic for him. Although Merrill Lynch is paying his prodigious legal bills, he has not had an income since he was fired by the firm in October 2002. 
In a search for a peaceful center amid the turmoil, he has taken up yoga. He has also expressed regret to friends that he never followed his first professional calling, which was to be a Hollywood agent. He worked briefly in the mailroom of William Morris, the talent agency, in the mid-1980's, and has talked wistfully about pursuing a career as a movie producer in Hollywood if he is acquitted.
"I can certainly see him in the film business," said Steven E. Tisch, a movie producer who has spoken with Mr. Bacanovic about his life after the trial. "He would be a very good producer. He is a people person."
For distraction, he has dusted off an old hobby, taking portrait photographs of close friends at dinner parties and other social occasions. "He asks friends to sit for pictures," said Glenn Hinderstein, a friend and former client of Mr. Bacanovic. "He likes taking pictures of women, or of me during my parties. His biggest regret is that he left the basement of William Morris."
For someone so accustomed to being a man about town, the adjustment to his changed circumstances has been wrenching, friends of Mr. Bacanovic say. Starting in 1993, he built a thriving brokerage practice at Merrill Lynch --he was in the top 20 percent of brokers at the firm -- by cultivating a small stable of well-heeled clients in Manhattan.
In many ways, Mr. Bacanovic's crowded business and social lives blended into one. On one night, he would attend a sumptuous benefit at the American Ballet Theater; on another, he would play host to an intimate dinner party for friends at a favorite restaurant.
At some of these events he would talk business, cornering a client to give a quick portfolio update, but in some cases he just basked in the glow of being surrounded by his many friends.
"You couldn't go to a party without running into Peter," said Patrick McCarthy, the chairman of Fairchild Publications and a former client of Mr. Bacanovic. "He really enjoys the social life and loves talking to people. He was doing well for himself. He had bought his town house and decorated it. It makes you feel good when your stockbroker is successful."
While glamorous on the surface, such a life was also arduous, with workdays that started early in the morning and often lasted late into the night. But for Mr. Bacanovic, a 41-year-old bachelor, it was everything he could have wished for, his friends say.
THERE are some striking similarities between Mr. Bacanovic and Ms. Stewart. They both come from immigrant families. Mr. Bacanovic's father was born in Serbia and his mother in Greece, while Ms. Stewart (nee Martha Kostyra) has Polish-American roots. Through a combination of hard work and good looks -- Ms. Stewart was once a model and Mr. Bacanovic was once nominated for the International Best-Dressed List of the fashion publicist Eleanor Lambert -- they embraced a version of the American dream. In their worlds, they came to be seen as exemplars of how the potent mix of money and style could propel a career.
Mr. Bacanovic did not gain automatic entree into this elite world. His father, a midlevel banker at Bank of America, and his mother, an anesthesiologist, came to New York City in the 1950's and sent their two children to the Lycee Francais, a private school on the Upper East Side.
It was there that Mr. Bacanovic met many of the fashionable friends who would form the core of his social circle, a cross-section of New York's moneyed classes. Some friends describe him as a Zelig of sorts, ubiquitous and ever adaptable. He was as quick to comment on a stylish pair of sneakers that a friend might be wearing as he was to discuss the merits of investing in the euro.
"He is not really part of the old-money or the new-money crowd," said Horace W. Brock, who runs an economic research institute and has known Mr. Bacanovic for more than 10 years. "But he has an ability to relate to both sides, whether that be Marina Rust, the granddaughter of Marshall Field 3rd, or George Lindemann, who made a bunch of money in telecoms. It's a talent."
Coming out of New York University business school in 1988, Mr. Bacanovic started his flirtation with Hollywood. But after a few months at William Morris, he jumped at an opportunity to be a junior banker for Asher Edelman, a 1980's-era corporate raider whose base in Switzerland appealed to Mr. Bacanovic's international sensibilities.
With his fluent French and Greek, he enjoyed the life, but the work was hard, and in the bear market of the late 1980's, the deals dried up. So he left Wall Street for a marketing job at ImClone Systems, the biological research company.
From 1990 to 1992, he worked in business development, searching for potential joint ventures and licensing arrangements. Mr. Bacanovic, who had an interest in molecular biology, also became a social friend of Samuel D. Waksal, the ImClone founder. 
Mr. Bacanovic left ImClone in 1992, and after a brief stint at a start-up hedge fund, he took the advice of his brother, Paul, a Merrill Lynch banker at the time, and went to work as a junior-level financial adviser at Merrill. 
His brother, who is two years younger and is now an investment banker at Lehman Brothers, was convinced that the combination of Mr. Bacanovic's ease with wealthy people and his financial smarts would make him the perfect private banker, capable of drawing a bead on the sacred assets, or the core wealth, of some of the richest people in New York.
"I told him he would be the best in the business, and he took the bait," the younger Mr. Bacanovic said. "The biggest hurdle for him was to convert the people he had known for years into clients."
Starting with just a cubicle, he built a substantial base of clients on both coasts. In addition to advising clients about stocks, he provided estate planning and tax advice. His approach to his business was subtle. At ease around people of wealth, he knew better than to go for the hard sell. He often let the business come to him, relying on referrals from friends and making few cold calls for new business.
"It was a soft-sell approach, strictly professional. It's not in his nature to be pushy," said Anne Corbin, an investment banker and a onetime client of Mr. Bacanovic. "It's hard not to like Peter. People gravitated toward him."
Friends became clients and clients became friends, and the boundary between the two would often blur. People who know him say that part of his success as a broker is his singular -- some say obsessive -- devotion to pleasing and caring for his seemingly endless roster of friends.
Whether it would be finding a date for a friend, counseling a friend who lost her husband or flying to Paris to spend time with one who had cancer, the stories of Mr. Bacanovic going the extra mile to accommodate those close to him are legion.
One former client even remarked that if Mr. Bacanovic was guilty of anything it was his deep desire to be liked. "Peter is someone who has the burden of always being cheerful," said Nancy Novogrod, editor in chief at Travel and Leisure. "He is the great extra man, attractive, intelligent and civilized."
In one respect, it was the craving to make his friends happy and be constantly there for them that led him to hire Douglas Faneuil, his assistant at Merrill Lynch, who, according to the complaint filed by prosecutors, told Ms. Stewart that Mr. Waksal and his daughter were trying to sell their ImClone stock, thus precipitating Ms. Stewart's sale.
Mr. Faneuil will be the government's star witness. He is expected to testify that Mr. Bacanovic pressured him to tell Merrill Lynch and regulators that an agreement to sell the stock existed between Ms. Stewart and Mr. Bacanovic.
According to one person who knows Mr. Bacanovic and Mr. Faneuil, Mr. Bacanovic hired Mr. Fanueil only as a favor to his friend Nina Griscom, the stepdaughter to Felix Rohatyn, the well-connected former Lazard Freres investment banker.
Mr. Faneuil, who was working at D.E. Shaw & Company, an investment firm, was looking to leave. Mr. Faneuil was a close friend of Robert Haskell, then a columnist at Women's Wear Daily. Ms. Griscom knew Mr. Faneuil through her friend Mr. Haskell, friends of Mr. Bacanovic said. Mr. Bacanovic took him on after Ms. Griscom's recommendation.
Now Mr. Faneuil, who, according to Mr. Bacanovic's lawyers, originally supported his boss's version of events, will be taking the stand against him. 
Mr. Bacanovic's steadfast refusal to succumb to the relentless pressure from prosecutors and break ranks with Ms. Stewart is a further testimony to his loyalty, his friends say. While Ms. Stewart may have been Mr. Bacanovic's best-known client, their relationship was based more on business than friendship, people who know Mr. Bacanovic say.
IN many ways, the relationship symbolizes how Mr. Bacanovic conducted his business. He knew Ms. Stewart through her daughter, Alexis, who attended Barnard while he was at Columbia. And while he occasionally ran into Ms. Stewart on the society circuit, their relationship was at its core broker-client as opposed to broker-friend.
Mr. Bacanovic's testimony to the Securities and Exchange Commission sheds light on the give and take of their relationship as ImClone's stock began its plunge. In that testimony, he said that on Dec. 20, 2001, he made his pitch to Ms. Stewart that she should sell her remaining shares.
"How low does this go before you are prepared to part with this?" he asked, according to his S.E.C. testimony.
"I don't know," he said Ms. Stewart responded.
"How about 60 dollars a share?" Mr. Bacanovic countered.
"Yes, sure," Ms. Stewart said.
Seven days later, Ms. Stewart would sell her shares.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martha Stewart and Peter E. Bacanovic at the Hampton Classic Horse Show in Bridgehampton in the mid-1990's. (Photo by Patrick McMullan)(pg. 1); Peter E. Bacanovic, center, Martha Stewart's co-defendant and former broker, arriving Friday at court with Richard M. Strassberg, his lawyer. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); SENTENCING (73%); INSIDER TRADING (71%); ALIBI (70%); CONSPIRACY (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (63%) Cancer; Insider Trading; Erbitux (Drug); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Cancer

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Merrill Lynch & Co; Imclone Systems

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (93%) STEWART, MARTHA ; Landon Jr Thomas; Peter Bacanovic; Martha Stewart

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



652 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
A Lender Hopes to Profit From the New Taxi Math

BYLINE:  By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
IF New York City sells 300 new taxi licenses this year, the financier Andrew M. Murstein will be watching the proceedings as closely as any driver aspiring to own a cab. 
 Mr. Murstein is president of the Medallion Financial Corporation, a publicly traded company in New York that specializes in lending money to buyers of taxi licenses, known as medallions because of the metal tags affixed to the hoods of licensed cabs. His company, which traces its roots to taxis his immigrant grandfather bought nearly 70 years ago, has grown to a market capitalization of $161 million. 
 Last year, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proposed selling 900 new medallions -- 300 a year for three years, starting this year -- to raise revenue. While Mr. Murstein said he was looking forward to the sale, it could portend trouble for his company's finances if it undercut the medallions' value. New York medallions served as the collateral for nearly 60 percent of the company's net loans as of the end of September. 
But Mr. Murstein and a big shareholder in his company argue that the sale would be a boon, prompting a surge of interest in owning cabs.
"Nine hundred new medallions is a lot of new potential demand," said Joseph A. Jolson, chief executive of JMP Asset Management in San Francisco. JMP owns about 10 percent of Medallion's stock. 
Mr. Murstein is so enthusiastic about the proposed new medallions, he said, that, for the first time, he expects that Medallion Financial would try to buy as many as 500 outright, rather than merely lending money to buyers. "We'll either bid ourselves or back operators and take a share of the upside appreciation," he said.
Independent of the company, the Murstein family owns 150 medallions, a remnant of the 500 Mr. Murstein's grandfather accumulated.
Mr. Murstein's father, Alvin, is the chairman of Medallion Financial. The family controls more than 16 percent of the stock, according to a proxy statement filed last April. Its board includes prominent political names like Mario M. Cuomo, the former governor of New York. 
New York City's sale could come at a crucial time for Medallion Financial. The company spent 2002 restructuring its finances. For that year, it reported a net loss of $12.6 million, or 69 cents a share, on revenue of $33.9 million, compared with a net loss of $4.1 million, or 24.5 cents a share, on revenue of $42.1 million the previous year. It returned to profitability in the final quarter of 2002, reporting net income of $188,171 on revenue of $7.6 million, and remained profitable through the first three quarters of 2003. It has not yet reported fourth-quarter results. 
From a high of $31 in April 1998, the stock fell to $3.02 in July 2002, and has since rebounded to $8.82.
Medallion Financial also lends to taxi-medallion buyers in other cities. It offers asset-backed lending, taking assets like accounts receivable as collateral. And it lends to companies aiming to go public. Even so, with its portfolio of New York medallion loans, a hefty dip in medallion values could augur trouble.
New York froze its supply of medallions in 1937, when Mr. Murstein's grandfather bought his first one for $10. For the most part, medallion values have climbed since.
In 1996 and 1997, the city sold 400 more medallions, raising the total to 12,187. In 1997, the price of a driver-owned medallion reached $199,875, said Bruce Schaller, principal of Schaller Consulting, a transportation consultant based in Brooklyn. The next year, the price hit $229,000, a record. 
But the price fell in 1999 and 2001, partly because of a driver shortage, Mr. Schaller said. When the economy was strong, drivers found jobs outside the industry. 
During New York's economic slowdown, driving a cab has looked more attractive, he said, and medallion values, which reflect expected revenue from a cab's operation, have rebounded. In July, a driver-owned medallion sold for $220,214. A corporate medallion -- a license for a cab that the owner doesn't drive -- sold for $253,143. Prices have climbed faster for corporate medallions because of the growth of taxi fleets. 
Mr. Schaller predicts that 900 additional medallions "will be absorbed readily into the market because the demand for taxi service is so intense." 
Not everyone shares his optimism. Peter L. Hernandez is a New York cabdriver who financed his medallion with a loan from Medallion Financial. He worries that a sale would sting him financially. 
"The only thing I have to prosper is my medallion equity," he said. "If they pump new taxis into the industry, it devalues my medallion. It devalues my daily income, too." 
Mr. Murstein argues that a 25 percent taxi fare increase, also proposed for this year, would act as a counterweight, protecting medallion values. "The city will probably do the medallion auction at the same time it bumps up meter rates," he said. 
ALLAN J. FROMBERG, a spokesman for the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission, would not comment on the likelihood of a fare increase or of a medallion sale. Both are subject to the commission's approval. In late December, the commission released a draft of an environmental impact study, saying that selling more medallions would bring modest amounts of additional traffic and pollution. The study also said that a sale would undercut medallion values unless it was accompanied by higher fares. 
Rather than hurting Medallion Financial, the auction could give its growth a boost, some analysts said. "It's a source of new loan demand," said Henry J. Coffey Jr., an equity analyst at Ferris, Baker Watts in Washington. 
The company's attempts at diversification elsewhere have had mixed results. In medallion lending, it has made inroads in Chicago and Boston. But Mr. Murstein said it had made fewer loans in Los Angeles than it had expected. Lately, it has turned its attention to San Francisco. 
Medallion Financial has also expanded into advertising, selling space on the signs on top of taxis. Today, it controls about 60 percent of the taxi-top ad space in New York and sells ads in several other cities, including Tokyo. But it recently pulled out of 10 smaller cities, including Pittsburgh and Kansas City, Mo. Its advertising unit reported losses of $3.3 million for the first nine months of 2003. 
Mr. Coffey said the company's advertising push had not been well timed. The company ramped up the business in the late 1990's, just before the economy slowed. In addition, the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, sapped the New York ad market. 
Before the attacks, Medallion sold all of its taxi-top space in New York for several years, Mr. Murstein said. But for nearly two years after 9/11, it sold only 65 percent of the space each month. In June, it sold out again. 
The attacks hurt Medallion Financial in other ways. About three weeks later, its $250 million line of credit expired, and its lead bank, the FleetBoston Financial Corporation, did not renew it. A spokeswoman for Fleet declined to comment.
In September 2002, Merrill Lynch, through its bank subsidiary, stepped in with a new line of credit. In the meantime, Medallion Financial began working to form its own bank.
The new bank, based in Salt Lake City, received regulatory approval in October and began doing business in December. It is officially an industrial loan corporation and is regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. It will make loans and accept federally insured deposits by selling certificates of deposit through brokers. It will not offer checking accounts; large industrial loan corporations chartered in Utah are not permitted to do so. 
The new bank should halve Medallion Financial's borrowing costs, to 1.5 percent, or even lower, from 3 percent, Mr. Murstein said. 
Combine that with the sturdiness of taxi medallion values, he said, and the company could be poised for profit gains, despite the setbacks of the last several years. 
"My father and grandfather have been through things worse than 9/11 -- World War I, World War II," he said, adding, "The medallions always do well."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alvin Murstein, foreground, and his son, Andrew, of Medallion Financial, say additional taxis in New York City could benefit the company. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) Graph: "Uphill Drive"The price of a taxi medallion in New York has climbed for most of the last two decades. Price of a New York taxi medallion Graph tracks the price of a New York taxi medallion for corporate (fleets) and individuals from 1980-July 2003. (Source by Schaller Consulting)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); GOVERNORS (63%) Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers; Company and Organization Profiles; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Credit; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: MEDALLION FINANCIAL CORP (85%); JMP GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Medallion Financial Corp

TICKER: TAXI (NASDAQ) (85%); JMP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (85%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6153 SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS EX. AGRICULTURAL (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) Andrew M Murstein; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



653 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE MASSACHUSETTS SENATOR; 
Rivals Mine Kerry Senate Years For Material to Slow Him Down

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
The moment John Kerry began to seem like the candidate to watch in the Iowa caucuses, the campaigns of his Democratic rivals Howard Dean and Richard A. Gephardt swiftly used a handful of Mr. Kerry's decade-old Senate votes and statements against ethanol and agricultural subsidies to attack him as not supportive of Iowa's essential industry.
 Now that his opponents are moving even more aggressively to slow Mr. Kerry's rise, his 19-year voting record as the junior senator from Massachusetts could loom as his greatest political vulnerability, to Democrats and Republicans alike. The sheer length of Mr. Kerry's service means that he has built a paper trail of positions on education, the military, intelligence and other issues -- stands that might have looked one way when he took them but that resonate differently now. 
 For example, at the end of the cold war, Mr. Kerry advocated scaling back the Central Intelligence Agency, but after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, he complained about a lack of intelligence capability. In the 1980's, he opposed the death penalty for terrorists who killed Americans abroad, but he now supports the death penalty for terrorist acts. In the 1990's, he joined with Republican senators to sponsor proposals to end tenure for public school teachers and allow direct grants to religion-based charities, measures that many Democratic groups opposed. In 1997, he voted to require elderly people with higher incomes to pay a larger share of Medicare premiums.
The record is susceptible to two broad strands of attack. Mr. Kerry's rival Democrats point to a series of shifting stands on issues, like his qualified praise for the 1994 Republican takeover of Congress and his vote authorizing President Bush to use force in Iraq. They say these are at odds with his claim to be the "real deal" Democratic alternative to Mr. Bush, capable of "standing up for people and taking on powerful interests," as he says in his stump speech. 
"When it was popular to be a Massachusetts liberal, his voting record was that," said Jay Carson, a Dean campaign spokesman. "When it was popular to be for the Iraq war, he was for it. Now it's popular to be against it, and he's against it. This is a voting record that is a big vulnerability against Republicans in the general election. He's all over the place on this stuff."
Speaking with reporters in New Hampshire on Saturday, Dr. Dean used Senator Kerry's record to make a point about his own foreign policy experience.
"His voting record on Iraq is exactly the opposite of mine," Dr. Dean said, pointing to Mr. Kerry's votes against the Gulf War in 1991 and for the resolution authorizing the invasion of Iraq last fall. "I think mine has been proven to be right twice."
By contrast, the Republicans seek to paint Mr. Kerry as voting in lock step with, or even to the left of, his fellow Massachusetts Democrat Edward M. Kennedy. 
"Whether it's economic policy, national security policy or social issues, John Kerry is out of sync with most voters," the Republican national chairman, Ed Gillespie, said in a speech on Friday.
Mr. Kerry's spokesman, David Wade, said the senator was "proud of his independence and unashamed that his resistance to orthodoxy leaves him hard to pigeonhole," adding that he had "fought a lifetime for what's right even when it's neither popular nor predictable." He added, "Ed Gillespie may be the last guy left who doesn't realize it's George Bush who's out of touch with the American people."
On a number of issues, including support for gun control, gay rights and the environment, Mr. Kerry has a long, consistent record. He has been a strong opponent of oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and has earned a lifetime 96 percent "right" voting record from the League of Conservation Voters. His lifetime score from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. is 90 percent, while his rating by the American Conservative Union stands at just 6 percent. 
But on many issues, Mr. Kerry has often struck more nuanced, politically cautious positions than those broad assessments might suggest. After the Republicans took control of Congress in 1994, Mr. Kerry proclaimed himself "delighted with seeing an institutional shake-up because I think we need one." A few months later, with President Bill Clinton locked in combat with the Republicans, Mr. Kerry voiced some doubts in a closed-door meeting of senators about the wisdom of trying to raise the minimum wage. And as Mr. Kennedy later recalled, he told Mr. Kerry, "If you're not for raising the minimum wage, you don't deserve to call yourself a Democrat." 
Mr. Kerry's old friend Adam Walinsky, who helped him draft the strongly worded anti-Vietnam War speech to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that marked the start of his political career in 1971, noted the contrast between Mr. Kerry's outspoken youth and his much more cautious Senate career.
"His politics are not that bold," Mr. Walinsky said. "And it's a really interesting question as to why. Certainly, in the times when I met him and the issues we were involved with then, there was nothing cautious or hesitant. Maybe some of it is that horrible Washington groupthink."
A Kerry campaign aide said that if the campaign was forced to defend itself, it was "armed with a treasure-trove of votes that prove John Kerry's commitment to strong national defense, a stronger intelligence-gathering operation than George Bush has delivered, and to a long record of fighting the deficit, reforming education and restructuring welfare."
Mr. Kerry has a detailed record of positions on scores of topics -- a potential handicap for any incumbent senator running for the presidency. That may be one reason no one has made the leap directly since John F. Kennedy in 1960.
But unlike some of his colleagues with long records to defend, Mr. Kerry has never been especially popular with other Democrats in Congress and the party establishment. They have accused him of being too eager to be in the majority, too quick to position his vote for political advantage.
The rap on Mr. Kerry's Senate career, fellow senators and Congressional aides say, has been that he is more interested in high-profile investigations -- like those into the Bank of Credit and Commerce International and Gen. Manuel Noriega of Panama -- than in the grinding details of legislative procedure. He has deferred to Mr. Kennedy on most bills involving health and education and has few major bills to his name; when asked to summarize his legislative accomplishments, he often seems to struggle.
But among the details of his legislative record, there is fertile ground for his rivals' attacks. Mr. Kerry voted for the USA Patriot Act, Mr. Bush's No Child Left Behind education bill and the Congressional resolution authorizing the president to use force in Iraq, only to sharply criticize all three once he became a presidential candidate. Mr. Kerry counters that his quarrel is with Mr. Bush's execution of the policies, but he struggled for months to explain his shifting stance on the Iraq war.
In 1991, Mr. Kerry voted with a majority of Democratic senators to oppose the first President Bush's use of force to repel Iraq from Kuwait, saying that the danger of a yes vote was "that those who vote for use of force will create a situation where it becomes more, rather than less, likely that the force they hope will not be used will, in fact, be used."
By contrast, in fall 2002, as he was weighing a presidential run, he voted with a narrower majority of Democratic senators to grant President Bush the right to use force to overthrow Saddam Hussein if necessary, "because I believe that a deadly arsenal of weapons of mass destruction in his hands is a real and grave threat to our security and that of our allies in the Persian Gulf region."
Like his rival and fellow senator John Edwards of North Carolina, Mr. Kerry has since voted against Mr. Bush's request for billions of dollars for reconstruction and military operations in Iraq. He said that to do so would be to reward the administration for inept execution of prewar diplomacy that might have avoided the conflict, and of postwar planning for the American occupation.
Some criticism of Mr. Kerry goes back much farther. After the end of the cold war, he asked why the nation's "vast intelligence apparatus continues to grow even as government resources for new and essential priorities fall far short of what is necessary," as he put it in remarks in the Senate in 1997. He proposed a series of measures, most of which lacked sufficient support, to cut spending programs for intelligence.
But after the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Kerry said on the CBS News program "Face the Nation," "The tragedy is, at the moment, that the single most important weapon for the United States of America is intelligence, and we are weakest, frankly, in that particular area."
In 1998, Mr. Kerry criticized the "stifling bureaucracy" of the public school system and called for an "end to teacher tenure as we know it," incorporating some of his ideas into a bill he co-sponsored with Senator Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon. He also worked with Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri, on a bill to allow direct grants to charities, including religious institutions, for certain early childhood education programs. Both measures were opposed by teachers unions and other Democratic constituencies.
Some of Mr. Kerry's rivals' attacks are not hard to answer. An e-mail critique circulated by the Dean campaign says that as a candidate for Congress in 1972, Mr. Kerry promised to cut military spending, without noting that the Vietnam War was then still under way and that Mr. Kerry was running not only as a decorated veteran of two tours there but as a national leader of veterans who opposed the war.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Kerry, right, with Senator Edward M. Kennedy in Lowell, Mass., in 1984, during Mr. Kerry's first campaign for Senate. Republicans are seeking to paint Mr. Kerry as voting in lock step with Mr. Kennedy. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); IRAQ WAR (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); COLD WAR (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); DESERT STORM (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); MEDICARE (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); CHARITIES (66%); AGRICULTURE (57%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (51%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); TED KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Todd S Purdum; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Edward M (Sen) Kennedy

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004 



654 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: How to Spend Wisely in Afghanistan 

BYLINE:  By Anne Carlin; Anne Carlin is the Afghanistan project coordinator for the Bank Information Center, a nonprofit group that promotes accountability and transparency at the World Bank and other development banks.

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
Washington has announced that it is accelerating the disbursement of $1.6 billion in new assistance to Afghanistan in an effort to produce visible improvements in stability and governance by early summer. 
 The seemingly laudable plan is part of the Bush administration's rush to show measurable progress in Afghanistan -- by number of schools and clinics built, miles of road paved and tons of wheat seed distributed. But in terms of sustainable development, such numbers are far less meaningful than one might think. 
 Just about everyone wants progress in Afghanistan, a country that ranks near the bottom of every indicator on the United Nations Human Development Index. But rather than spend hundreds of millions of dollars on hastily constructed schools that may collapse in earthquakes or on roads with temporary surfaces that will crack under the weight of heavy trucks, the United States should use the money for better long-term development programs. 
There are plenty of good candidates. For example, the government's National Solidarity Program is providing block grants for community programs -- allowing nearly 8,000 towns and villages to identify their most pressing needs and put in place projects that take care of them. This work complements other government programs around the nation on education and health. 
In recent interviews, a wide range of Afghans and aid workers told me that they worry most about two critical deficiencies that are hard to quantify on a quarterly report: a lack of security and a lack of local capacity to carry out development programs. The shortage of teachers, doctors, accountants and engineers outweighs the lack of schools, clinics and computers, because without the specialists, the institutions are worthless.
The important point is that Afghans should be given the opportunity to carry out the programs they find vital, even if it takes a little longer than Washington wants.
Critics may say that giving the Afghans all that money is courting disaster. But the government here has shown in recent months that it is worthy of trust. While international advisors provided much needed transitional assistance, the recently concluded constitutional loya jirga showed that Afghans are capable of dealing with critical issues concerning governance and their future. The process took longer than it might have if the United States had used a heavier hand, but in the end the participants produced a solid document, in their own terms, with lasting legitimacy. 
In addition, President Hamid Karzai has shown that he understands the necessary pace for progress in the country, where moving too quickly could set off a rebellion by local warlords. Mr. Karzai's slow expansion of central authority has allowed him to replace recalcitrant governors and gain the agreement of other regional leaders for his policies.
However, the government in Kabul has too little real control. Large donors and lenders like the United States Agency for International Development, the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank have returned to Afghanistan, but they are focusing on quantifiable results and relying on expensive international consulting firms for progress reports.
These consulting companies have a great deal of control over the country's purse strings; they also rewrite major government policies and give the aid agencies the numbers they need for annual reports. But many of these activities limit the ability of Afghans to establish the corps of experts and specialists so desperately needed. A handful of international consultants working side by side with Afghans to forge new policies is reasonable, but the consultants shouldn't be the architects of new programs, especially before an elected government is in place.
It is worth remembering that some of the best leaders in Afghanistan are returned exiles, many of whom spent years working for Afghan relief and development from Pakistan. They have an administrative style that is new to Afghanistan -- a combination of Afghan and Western thinking. They may be the key to long-term progress. 
The international community, especially the United States, should realize that progress in Afghanistan should be measured in the number of successful homegrown projects that assistance makes possible, not in the mileage of roads built or the amount of aid dollars spent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); RANKINGS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (60%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



655 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: After Decades, Saigon Figure Visits Vietnam With U.S. Nod 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
From his business-class seat on a flight up the spine of Vietnam on Friday, Nguyen Cao Ky, a former South Vietnamese prime minister, peered down on the cloud-covered northern countryside that he had last seen as a pilot on bombing runs during the Vietnam War.
 Now 73 and a visitor to a place whose government outlasted the United States and its South Vietnamese ally, Mr. Ky was returning to his home city after 50 years. Mr. Ky, a former staunch anti-Communist, had already spent a busy week socializing, playing golf and sightseeing in Ho Chi Minh City. He said he had been assured of a warm welcome in Hanoi. 
 The flamboyant clothes that once earned Mr. Ky a reputation as South Vietnam's playboy prime minister were gone, replaced by a sedate cashmere sports jacket and tie. His 1960's full brush mustache was trimmed back, and golf clubs for playing on a newly built course near Hanoi were stashed in the hold. 
When his countrymen ask about dealing with Americans, he said, "I tell them to be open and frank with the good Americans." For "the bad Americans," he recommended a forceful kick in the seat of the pants. Asked who the "bad Americans" were, the former prime minister declined to be specific. 
His visit has the approval of the Hanoi government, which wants to improve relations with the United States, particularly as a balance against China, Vietnam's neighbor and onetime occupier.
But the trip has aroused opposition among a faction of the South Vietnamese exile community in the United States, particularly in California, where anti-Communist sentiment runs strong and where Mr. Ky has spent most of his time as a businessman since fleeing Vietnam after the fall of Saigon in 1975.
Religious groups in the United States have also protested what they call the government's persecution of members of ethnic minorities who have become Protestants. 
But Mr. Ky said he believed it was time for reconciliation, and a new chapter. Those Mr. Ky called "the stupid rulers" of South Vietnam -- President Nguyen Van Thieu, under whom Mr. Ky served, and President Ngo Dinh Diem, whom Mr. Ky helped overthrow -- are both dead, he observed. 
"Younger men, in their 50's and 60's, are in charge in Hanoi," he said. "They know they have to get on with America." 
As well, he said, the Vietnamese want to balance their complicated relationship with China with better dealings with the United States. As China has become stronger in Asia, Vietnam has become more wary, even though the two countries share Communist political beliefs. 
"Economically, China can destroy Vietnam, and the government knows it," Mr. Ky said. "Vietnam could become a district of China again." 
Mr. Ky's visit, though informal, comes with some behind-the-scenes encouragement from the Bush administration. Last year, an American official suggested to the government here that it try to mend fences with Mr. Ky as a way to help Vietnam improve its image in the United States. Picking up on the idea, a deputy foreign minister, Nguyen Phu Bin, went to San Francisco last spring and met with Mr. Ky. Mr. Bin, now the Vietnamese ambassador in Paris, suggested the trip to Vietnam. 
In the months leading up to Mr. Ky's arrival, Vietnam took several conventional steps to foster better relations with Washington. 
A United States Navy vessel docked in Ho Chi Minh City in November, the third such visit in nearly three decades. The head of the Vietnamese military, Pham Van Tra, visited the Pentagon last fall and met with Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld. Deputy Prime Minister Vu Khoan told Secretary of State Colin L. Powell in December that Vietnam would try to meet the requirements needed for membership in the World Trade Organization by 2005. 
While the government has begun to open up the economy and completed a far-reaching trade agreement with Washington two years ago, Vietnam remains one of the poorest and most corrupt nations in Asia. 
Mr. Ky said the Vietnamese government needed to move faster or risk having the country left far behind. So far he has given two main pieces of advice to government officials: cut down on corruption and narrow the gap between the rich and the poor.
This week he has given this message, he said, to Thanh Vo Viet, until recently a mayor of Ho Chi Minh City and now Mr. Ky's new golf partner there.
In his autobiography, "Buddha's Child," written with Marvin J. Wolf, Mr. Ky gives an unvarnished account of how he fled the country. 
As the North Vietnamese were pushing ever closer to Saigon in 1975, he proposed defending the city house to house, person to person. 
But when he failed to persuade anyone, Mr. Ky said, he loaded up a helicopter with some colleagues and flew out to sea. As he approached the American aircraft carrier Midway, Mr. Ky said, he ditched the ivory-handled revolver that John Wayne had given him. The Americans would disarm them, and Mr. Ky said he preferred to disarm himself. After Mr. Ky landed, the American sailors unceremoniously pushed his helicopter over the side. 
On Friday afternoon such indignities were forgotten. 
Mr. Ky embraced two high school friends he had not seen in more than 50 years -- Nguyen To, a professor of Vietnamese literature, and Nguyen Boi Tai, a professor of mathematics. Mr. Ky chose to go south in 1954 when Vietnam was divided into a Communist north and a non-Communist south by the Geneva conference that ended the French war in Indochina. Those two men stayed in the north. On Friday, the three sat laughing about their exploits as lads about town. They then went for ice cream and reminisced about a fat lady who had sold ices from a cart on the street.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nguyen Cao Ky, center, once South Vietnam's prime minister, in Hanoi on Friday with two schoolmates, Nguyen To, left, and Nguyen Boi Tai. (Photo by Doan Bao Chau for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); GOLF (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); RELIGION (67%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); ETHNICITY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (95%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); VIETNAM (95%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



656 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Rule Change May Alter Strip-Mine Fight 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, W.Va., Jan. 21 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is moving to revamp a rule protecting streams that Appalachian environmentalists view as their best weapon for fighting the strip-mining technique of mountaintop removal. 
 Over the past six years, environmental groups have used the rule, which restricts mining within 100 feet of a stream, to block or slow the issuing of state permits for mountaintop removal. 
 Strip mining involves dynamiting away mountaintops to expose seams of low-sulfur coal, then dumping the leftover rubble into nearby valleys and streams. Some of those valley fills, as they are known, are hundreds of feet deep and several miles long, making them among the largest man-made earthen structures in the East. 
The proposed rule change by the Office of Surface Mining would make clear that filling valleys and covering streams is permitted under federal law if companies show they are minimizing mining waste and the environmental damage caused by it.
Administration officials say the proposed changes to the rule, affecting the stream buffer zone, will clarify conflicting federal regulations and thereby reduce litigation. The rule could take effect as early as mid-March.
Environmentalists and at least one federal judge say the change would be significant because the current rule forbids virtually all mining activity in the buffer zone. Coal industry officials and environmental groups agree that if the current rule was stringently enforced, most large-scale strip mining in Appalachia could be halted.
"If we lose the buffer zone, we lose the last clear-cut argument to stop these valley fills," said Joe Lovett, executive director of the Appalachian Center for the Economy and the Environment, a nonprofit group in Lewisburg, W.Va.
If the federal buffer-zone rule is changed, the West Virginia Legislature is expected to revise state regulations to conform to it, said Tom Clarke, a lawyer for the State Department of Environmental Protection.
The struggle over the stream buffer zone underscores how some of the most significant battles over government policy are waged on the overlooked fields of little-known laws and lesser-known regulations.
And the struggle comes as mountaintop mining has emerged as the most common form of surface mining in central Appalachia. The process produces more coal, requires fewer employees and is less costly than other forms of mining. 
But opponents contend that strip mining also levels mountains, fills narrow valleys, covers streams and destroys forests. Mining companies are required to reconfigure hilltops and replant forests, but those efforts rarely approach the natural beauty of the original landscape, residents argue.
"We have beautiful, beautiful streams," said Evelyn Kelly, whose husband, Willard, is a retired coal miner. They live in Omar, W.Va., near a band of strip mines. "It's so sad. If you look up from the bottom of a valley fill, it's just dirt and rock and boulders where it used to be a beautiful hollow and stream."
The buffer-zone rule, created in 1977 and revised in 1983, says that "no land within 100 feet of an intermittent or perennial stream shall be disturbed by surface coal mining and reclamation operations" without government authorization.
Such authorization can be granted only if the operations are shown to be "environmentally acceptable."
West Virginia and other states, which issue mining permits, enacted their versions of the rule. But for nearly two decades, it was only loosely enforced by states, allowing hundreds, perhaps thousands of miles of Appalachian streambeds to be buried.
In 1998, Mr. Lovett, on behalf of residents and an environmental group, filed suit, asserting that burying streams with mining waste violated the rule. The mining industry and the state disagreed, arguing that covering the upper stretches of a stream was acceptable if downstream portions were not impaired.
In a strongly worded opinion issued in 1999, Chief Judge Charles H. Haden II of Federal District Court in Charleston agreed with the environmentalists.
"Valley fills are waste disposal projects so enormous that, rather than the stream assimilating the waste, the waste assimilates the stream," Judge Haden wrote.
In 2001, the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit overturned Judge Haden's decision, ruling that federal courts did not have jurisdiction in the case. But the appeals court did not rule on the substance of the suit, leaving the door open to state litigation. 
Mr. Lovett recently brought a new suit on behalf of the West Virginia Highlands Conservancy, a nonprofit group, arguing before the state Surface Mine Board that a proposed 851-acre strip mine operated by Arch Coal Inc. would violate the existing buffer-zone rule.
Mr. Lovett argued that the proposed rule change would undercut his suit. It would make the rule "virtually toothless," he said in a recent hearing before the board, and would be "a giveaway to the coal industry."
Lawyers for the state and the mining industry argue that mountaintop removal can be done in a way that restores forests and mountain peaks. Only 1 percent of the state's landmass has been affected by mountaintop removal, they say, while 76 percent remains forested. 
Robert G. McLusky, a coal industry lawyer, said the strict interpretation of the buffer-zone rule demanded by environmentalists would be a "death sentence" for the mining industry in Appalachia. 
To bolster their case, lawyers for the state and the industry cite two studies conducted since 1998. In one, mining experts concluded that coal production in West Virginia would be cut 90 percent in above and underground mines if the buffer-zone rule was stringently enforced. A second study, by two Marshall University faculty members, predicted that state tax revenues would decline by as much as $168 million a year if Judge Haden's decision had been allowed to stand.
Environmental groups argue that those studies exaggerate the effect of the buffer-zone rule. They say that smaller strip mines could still operate even if the rule was stringently enforced and that there are alternatives to dumping mine waste into streams, if mining companies are willing to pay for them.
Mr. McLusky told the Surface Mine Board that if the Highlands Conservancy wins its case, "most of the mining, surface and underground, in this state would come to an end."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Willard Kelly near his home in Omar, W.Va., close to strip mines. His wife, Evelyn, said valley fills are replacing streams with dirt. The effects can be seen in southern West Virginia. (Photo by Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition); (Photo by Dale W. Ferrell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); COAL MINING (90%); SURFACE MINING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); MINE WORKERS (78%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LAWYERS (70%); LITIGATION (67%); JUDGES (66%); REFORESTATION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004



657 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Safety of Adding to Nuclear Plants' Capacity Is Questioned 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
Safety experts are questioning an effort by the nation's nuclear industry that has expanded its output by the equivalent of three large reactors without adding a single new plant.
 In the last two decades, nuclear plants have won permits to uprate, meaning add capacity to reactors, with almost no opposition. With these upgrades, plus expanded working hours and 20-year extensions on operating licenses, the nuclear industry has expanded its electrical output to a point that safety experts say could be dangerous. 
 For their part, plant owners say they are modernizing in way that can improve safety.
But a battle line has been drawn over an application by Entergy Nuclear to raise a reactor's power output by 20 percent. 
Some nuclear engineers outside the company hope they can mount a serious technical challenge to this application so it will not sail through as the previous 99 applications have.
Entergy Nuclear applied in September to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for permission to raise the power output of a 32-year-old reactor it owns, the Vermont Yankee, by 20 percent.
In considering additions of capacity the commission has changed the way it measures the risk that emergency cooling water, which is needed to dissipate heat at the higher power level, will boil into steam during an accident.
If the water turned into steam, it would make cooling impossible, the fuel could melt, and radioactive material would be released.
The Vermont plant is exempt from some government safety regulations because it was licensed before they were written, and it is now trying to reduce its safety margin "far beyond anything that could be licensed today," said Paul M. Blanch, an engineer with decades of experience in the nuclear field.
While no one has ordered a new nuclear plant in this country since 1973, except for those that were canceled before completion, the 103 reactors now licensed have not only added capacity but will add the equivalent of another two or three plants in the next few years, industry and government experts say.
These uprates, involving mostly minor changes that allow more power production, helped allow the nuclear industry's share of American power production to stay around 20 percent even with no new plants.
Plant managers say that the Vermont Yankee, in Vernon, Vt., just north of the Massachusetts border, was built with enormous unused capacity. And nuclear experts, even some who say that Vermont Yankee's application should receive extra close scrutiny, say that increasing power output can make a plant safer because modernization may include installing more precise, reliable components.
According to Entergy's plans, when Vermont Yankee is next refueled with fresh uranium, technicians will put in more of the type that is easily split to produce energy, and workers will install water pumps that will deliver more water so the reactor can produce more steam. The company will also install a new turbine, which takes the energy of the steam and uses it to turn a shaft, and a new generator, which uses the shaft's energy to make electricity.
The reactor's current capacity of 524 megawatts of electricity would rise to 634; one megawatt would keep 1,000 window air-conditioners running. Experts say this upgrade will probably cost about $60 million -- far less expensive than creating the equivalent by building a new plant. Fuel expenses would rise somewhat, but not the long-term labor and maintenance costs.
That economic logic has appealed to the nuclear industry, especially as the electric industry restructured over the last few years and some reactors were sold.
"As people began to look at competitive markets and renewing the operating licenses, they said, 'If I make a little more investment in this plant, I can uprate it even further,' " said Marvin Fertel, the chief nuclear officer at the Nuclear Energy Institute, an industry trade group.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission's most recent tally, last March, showed that 79 plants had won permission to increase output and that seven applications besides that of the Vermont Yankee were pending. 
At the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Mohammed A. Shuaibi, a senior project manager, said, "A lot of rigorous analysis, and changes to plant hardware, are done to make sure the plants continue to be safe at the higher power level."
Entergy bought Vermont Yankee from a group of New England utilities in July 2002. One selling point was that it was like a used car driven only on Sundays -- it had never had an uprate and would probably qualify for a big one.
But at Vermont Yankee, there are questions about the risk that the emergency cooling water will boil into steam.
At the current maximum allowable power level, the emergency water could be heated to 183 degrees, well short of the boiling point at normal atmospheric pressure, 212 degrees. After a 20 percent uprate, that could rise to 194 degrees.
During an accident the emergency pumps suck in huge volumes of water, lowering the pressure inside the pump. That could allow bubbles of steam to develop.
Reactor owners argue that an accident would probably involve a leak, and that would create steam in the reactor building, keep the water pressurized in the pump and prevent it from boiling.
Jay K. Thayer, the site vice president for Entergy Nuclear at Vermont Yankee, said the company's plan was conservative because in an accident, pressures would be far higher than the company projected in its application.
"We don't use everything that's available," he said. "We subtract to assure that there's margin there."
Until the last few years, the commission would not allow such assumptions to guide its rulings. In the 1990's, two reactors in New England were identified by the commission as having a risk of boiling at atmospheric pressure. The owners shut the reactors rather than fix this and other problems.
But Vermont Yankee has applied under the current rules and has asserted that pressure would be sufficient during an accident, at least 6.1 pounds at the beginning, and would stay higher than atmospheric pressure for 50 hours, Mr. Thayer said, leaving a substantial safety margin.
Others argue, though, that there are far too many accident scenarios in which the atmospheric pressure might not build up -- for example, if there were small leaks or a breach of the containment building during a terrorist attack or failure of part of the containment system.
David Lochbaum, a nuclear engineer at the Union of Concerned Scientists, a nonprofit group that is often critical of nuclear safety, said the commission had previously rejected owners arguments about pressure preventing boiling water because "it is hard to guarantee the pressure will always be there when needed."
In general, all reactor safety equipment has to have backups. But Vermont Yankee was licensed before the backuprequirement went into place. Mr. Blanch and others argue that this loophole could make the plant vulnerable to a severe accident if a single component failed after the emergency cooling system was required.
William K. Sherman, the Vermont state nuclear engineer, sent the Nuclear Regulatory Commission a letter in December expressing doubts about the reactor's application and its reliance on high pressure in an emergency.
"What is the safety implication," he wrote, of counting on extra pressure in an emergency? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); PLANT CAPACITY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ENTERGY CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



658 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Education Is No Protection 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The conference was held discreetly in the Westin New York hotel in Times Square last week, and by most accounts it was a great success.
 The main objections came from a handful of protesters who stood outside in a brutally cold wind waving signs that said things like "Stop Sending Jobs Overseas" and "Put America Back to Work." No one paid them much attention. 
 The conference was titled "Offshore Outsourcing: Making the Journey Work for Your Corporation." Its goal was to bring executives up to speed on the hot new thing in corporate America, the shipment of higher-paying white-collar jobs to countries with eager, well-educated and much lower-paid workers. 
"We basically help companies figure out how to offshore I.T. information technology and B.P. business process functions ," said Atul Vashistha, the chief executive of NeoIT, a California consulting firm that co-hosted the conference. 
Several big-name corporations had representatives at the conference, including Procter & Gamble, Motorola, Cisco Systems and Gateway.
Because the outsourcing of white-collar jobs is so controversial and politically charged (especially in a presidential election year), there was a marked reluctance among many of the participants to speak publicly about it. But Mr. Vashistha showed no reluctance. He was quick to proselytize.
"These companies understand very clearly that this is a very painful process for their employees and for American jobs in the short term," he said. "But they also recognize that if they don't do this, they will lose more jobs in the future and they won't have an ability to grow in the future."
He said his firm had helped clients ship about a billion dollars' worth of projects offshore last year.
Noting that he is an American citizen who was born in India, Mr. Vashistha said he is convinced that outsourcing will prove to be a long-term boon to the U.S. economy as well as the economies of the countries acquiring the exported jobs. 
Whether it becomes a boon to the U.S. economy or not, the trend toward upscale outsourcing is a fact, and it is accelerating. In an important interview with The San Jose Mercury News last month, the chief executive of Intel, Craig Barrett, talked about the integration of India, China and Russia -- with a combined population approaching three billion -- into the world's economic infrastructure.
"I don't think this has been fully understood by the United States," said Mr. Barrett. "If you look at India, China and Russia, they all have strong education heritages. Even if you discount 90 percent of the people there as uneducated farmers, you still end up with about 300 million people who are educated. That's bigger than the U.S. work force."
He said: "The big change today from what's happened over the last 30 years is that it's no longer just low-cost labor that you are looking at. It's well-educated labor that can do effectively any job that can be done in the United States."
In Mr. Barrett's view, "Unless you are a plumber, or perhaps a newspaper reporter, or one of these jobs which is geographically situated, you can be anywhere in the world and do just about any job."
You want a national security issue? Trust me, this threat to the long-term U.S. economy is a big one. Why it's not a thunderous issue in the presidential campaign is beyond me.
Intel has its headquarters in Silicon Valley. A Mercury News interviewer asked Mr. Barrett what the Valley will look like in three years. Mr. Barrett said the prospects for job growth were not good. "Companies can still form in Silicon Valley and be competitive around the world," he said. "It's just that they are not going to create jobs in Silicon Valley."
He was then asked, "Aren't we talking about an entire generation of lowered expectations in the United States for what an individual entering the job market will be facing?"
"It's tough to come to another conclusion than that," said Mr. Barrett. "If you see this increased competition for jobs, the immediate response to competition is lower prices and that's lower wage rates."
We can grapple with this problem now, and try to develop workable solutions. Or we can ignore this fire in the basement of the national economy until it rages out of our control. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); OFFSHORING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LABOR FORCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); TRENDS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); ELECTIONS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



659 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: NORTHERN REGION; 
Kurds Await Iraq's Embrace, And Hope It's Not Too Tight

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE

DATELINE: SULAIMANIYA, Iraq 

 BODY:
For the last 12 years, Chope Hamed has lived in Iraq without living in Iraq.
 Ms. Hamed's home is the capital of the Kurdish northeast of Iraq, a region that gained de facto independence from the rest of the country in 1991, after the Americans established a no-flight zone to keep Saddam Hussein's forces at bay. 
 So while young people farther south grew up within the cloistered repression of the Baathist rule, Ms. Hamed, a 24-year-old college student, enjoyed new freedoms and saw the bigger world through satellite television and the Internet. While Muslim women elsewhere in Iraq veil themselves in ever-increasing numbers, Ms. Hamed and most other women in Sulaimaniya walk with their thick, dark hair tumbling over their shoulders. 
"Here I'm equal with guys," Ms. Hamed said, as she sat with friends at the Sulaimaniya University student center. "I say, 'I'm just like you, I study, I work, I go out.' " 
Her friend Paiman Ahmed, 23, said, "That's the difference between us and them," referring to Iraqi Arab women. "We have freedom. Our families gave us the chance to say what we want, to dress how we want, to be what we want."
A world of possibility and freedom is what this younger generation of Kurds is desperate to preserve, as their elders meet with other Iraqi politicians in Baghdad to mesh the Kurdish north once more with the Arab south. Already, Kurdish politicians recognize their youth as an independent-minded force to be reckoned with, a politically sophisticated group that regards the rest of Iraq as a foreign -- and backward -- country.
"The Arabs from other parts of Iraq are starting from zero, but we've been through all that already," said Brwa Abdulrahman, a 26-year-old who works in the city's youth center. Joining with Iraq, he said, "is like putting a sixth grader in a class with first graders."
The most startling thing about Sulaimaniya now is its vibrant normalcy. While foreigners work in Sulaimaniya, American soldiers are nowhere in sight. Thunderstorms, rather than gunfire and bombings, interrupt the city's sleep. In the evenings, young people go to restaurants, tea shops and Internet salons. The women, unlike those in Baghdad, have no fear of abduction. Young Kurds often study and work several jobs, their main demands being serious economic development and greater political representation. 
"Before, people like my dad, they all talked about independence, even just for one day," said Mr. Abdulrahman, nattily turned out in an ivory parka, leather pants and well-applied hair gel. "It was a dream for them. But now the reality is, we have independence. The question is, what kind of independence? We want to talk now about the details."
The word independence makes other Iraqis very nervous. As the American-led civil administration and the Iraqi Governing Council negotiate the path to Iraqi self-rule by July 1, Kurdish parties have united to demand a federalist system under which the north would function as one large, semiautonomous province. Many Iraqi Arabs see this as the first step to a breakup of their country along ethnic and sectarian fault lines. Kurds see this as the bare minimum needed to preserve the life they have built in the north and to protect themselves from possible future repression by the majority Arabs. 
The inability of the two sides to understand one another, despite the suffering of both Arabs and Kurds, some say, is a troubling legacy of the old Baghdad government. "There's no trust between people," said Darya Ibrahim, a 22-year-old student, who is also a photographer and a colleague of Mr. Abdulrahman. "Saddam Hussein broke it, on the levels of individuals and families, and of peoples, too."
The role of Islam in a new Iraq threatens to be a flash point between the increasingly devout south, including Baghdad, and more secular places like Sulaimaniya. Most young people here see faith as a private matter, not the basis of an overarching political system.
"In the south, you see demonstrations for gasoline, for jobs, and they always hold up signs that say, 'There is no God but Allah, and Muhammad is his prophet,' " said Ms. Hamed. "What's the connection between that and jobs or gasoline? We're all Muslims, but their thinking is old."
The challenge for Kurds and Arabs alike will be to integrate into a new Iraq people who have no affinity for Arab Iraq. If young Kurds have grown up in the modern world of cellphones and the Internet, so too have they been shaped by the memories of brutal repression by successive Iraqi governments. 
Most young Kurds remember the uprisings in 1991, when rebellions by the Shiites and the Kurds were brutally suppressed by Mr. Hussein. Most are also old enough to have lived through events like the killing of civilians with chemical weapons in the village of Halabja in March 1988, or the mass deportation and killings of villagers in the Anfal campaign from February to September 1988. 
"I'm very angry at Saddam Hussein, but who was his regime?" argued Steven Fouad, a 23-year-old Kurdish Christian, at an Internet shop in the town center. "Who was his party? They weren't from a foreign country."
Mr. Fouad, who lost his father and brother in clashes with the Baathist government, added about Iraqi Arabs: "They wanted us to ask for mercy because they consider us guests on their soil. They wanted to rule us with the sword and the Koran."
The different sets of memory that Iraqi Arabs and Kurds have and that often govern their attitudes toward one another reside within Soleen Muhsen, a university student with an Arab father and a Kurdish mother. She lived in Baghdad until three years ago but continued to visit the north for a few weeks every summer after 1991.
In Baghdad, she said, people did not know of the suffering of Kurds, and the knowledge she had crushed her. Still, she sympathizes with the Arab Iraqis, who lived in an ignorance enforced by Mr. Hussein's police state.
"There is a huge difference in memory with those in Baghdad," Ms. Muhsen said. "But we were outside the ring" of state terror for the last decade, she explained. "They were inside the ring, and it was terrible for them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many young Kurds in Sulaimaniya, Iraq, like Darya Ibrahim, above, say they will insist on preserving their freedoms and secular lifestyles as they face having to integrate with more traditional and conservative Iraqis. (Photo by Lynsey Addario/Corbis, for The New York Times) Map of Iraq highlighting Sulaimaniya and Predominantly Kurdish areas, Sunni Arab and Kurdish mix areas: Sulaimaniya's Kurds have enjoyed freedoms denied most Iraqis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); POLITICS (86%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); RESTAURANTS (60%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



660 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Online Music Industry Is Focusing on Europe 

BYLINE:  By VICTORIA SHANNON

DATELINE: CANNES, France, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
Europe is the next battlefield for portable digital music, with its eager consumer market and attractive demographics, but complex cross-border legal and financial obstacles are delaying the entry of the biggest names, including Apple Computer.
 Still, the online music industry is hungry for the European market, according to many executives at an international music conference that started here on Saturday, and it is preparing to take on the established European leader, On Demand Distribution, a company co-founded by the musician Peter Gabriel that is known as OD2 and powers most existing music services in Europe. 
 No one involved doubts that the European appetite exists. Last week, the Coca-Cola Company began an Internet-based music downloading service in Britain that attracted 10,000 downloads in its first 24 hours. 
Europe is the world's second-biggest music market, behind the United States, and has sales of about $11 billion. According to Forrester Research, European download sales were just 24 million euros ($30.5 million) last year. 
The diverse languages and cultural tastes seem the least of the hurdles in Europe. Here, a lower percentage of households have personal computers, are connected to the Internet or have fast, broadband network connections than in the United States.
"A majority of the U.K. population has yet to experience downloading," said Rafael McDonnell, head of strategic marketing alliances for Coca-Cola in Britain, at the conference here, known as Midem. "We need to drive that habit."
Executives at Apple and Napster said over the weekend that they would love to help Coke do that, but they are still held back by arranging downloading rights across Europe. Eddy Cue, Apple vice president for applications and Internet services, said that the company still planned to offer its iTunes Music Store inEurope some time this year, but he declined to give a specific date. 
"Different prices in different countries, different release dates, there are obstacles we are still sorting through," Mr. Cue said. "They're not insurmountable."
Chris Gorog, the chairman and chief executive of Roxio, which owns the new Napster service, said he, too, would open for business to Europeans this year as well -- as soon as the licensing hurdles are overcome and consumers can get the same kind of choice as the United States version.
"We debuted with over half a million tracks in the U.S., and we'd like to start with the same in Europe," Mr. Gorog said. "The music studios are rolling out the red carpet, but the primary obstacle now" is getting agreements from music publishers that represent songwriters, country by country. "Our approach to the market will be to create local, national services reflective of the culture," he said.
William Booth, head of music publishing for EMI, said Sunday that he expected a single royalty agreement that covers most of Europe's publishing collection agencies to be settled within the next three to four months. 
Coke solved the problem by offering its service on Mr. Gabriel's OD2 platform. OD2 has worked over the last several years to extract agreements throughout Europe, and so far it is the only service to have done so. The OD2 platform is branded largely by Web portals and Internet service providers in individual national markets, like Wanadoo in France, Tiscali in Italy and Virgin Downloads in Britain.
Charles Grimsdale, chief executive of OD2, noted that the company has had to develop support for various release dates by country, 6 pricing systems and 13 payment mechanisms. Purchases made via Carte Bleu, for example, the leading payment card in France, are cleared only by French banks.
On Monday, Cable and Wireless will introduce a music-download package for the European market. Like OD2, Cable & Wireless is aiming at companies that want to brand their own service, like Internet service providers or retail companies.
"From our analysis, there's plenty of business to be done," said Andrew Wilding, an executive with Cable and Wireless, which is a partner with the 24/7 Music Shop. "The vagaries of the European market have been factored into the platform," he added. Cable and Wireless's first customer is expected to be Phonofile, a Danish Web site.
Negotiations with holders of music licenses have not been concluded. Even before all the digital music participants are in place -- Sony has said it will begin its Connect downloading business in the United States, Europe and Asia this spring, and the Rhapsody service from RealNetworks intends to export its service to Europe -- analysts are predicting the inevitable shakeout. 
Josh Bernoff, principal analyst at Forrester Research, said participants like Coke in Britain and Wal-Mart Stores in the United States are unlikely to be long-term players. (Coke has said it has no plans to expand the service beyond Britain.) 
"This is not part of Coke's core business," Mr. Bernoff said. "The connection to music is valuable to them, but it doesn't make sense to me that a soft drink company would be the leading download site in Europe." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); INTERNET AUDIO (90%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (90%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (74%); SONG WRITING (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%); ROYALTIES (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); BROADBAND (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); TRADEMARK LAW (60%) MUSIC, OPERA AND MUSICAL RECORDINGS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, COPYRIGHTS AND PIRACY; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; EUROPE 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (83%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (83%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



661 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
E-Mail on Wheels

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: O SIENGLE, Cambodia 

 BODY:
In this village on the edge of a primordial forest, where the occasional oxcart creaks down the red earth main street, townspeople were debating one recent afternoon what to say in their first e-mail transmission.
 "I think we should send a message to the governor, asking for land titles," said Kim Seng, 53, who owns a mud-floor restaurant, as his wife listened from a hammock. Conjuring up the power and prestige of a letter sent by computer, he added confidently, "The governor will pay attention to our issues." 
 Without wires for electricity or telephones, this village of about 800 people has nevertheless joined the online world, taking part in a development project set up by an American benefactor to connect 13 rural schools to the Internet. 
 Since the system went into place last September at the new elementary school here in Cambodia's remote northeast corner, solar panels have been powering three computers. Once a day, an Internet "Motoman" rides a cherry red Honda motorcycle slowly past the school. On the passenger seat is a gray metal box with a short fat antenna. The box holds a wireless Wi-Fi chip set that allows the exchange of e-mail between the box and computers. Briefly, this schoolyard of tree stumps and a hand-cranked water well becomes an Internet hot spot. 
 It is a digital pony express: five Motomen ride their routes five days a week, downloading and uploading e-mail. The system, developed by a Boston company, First Mile Solutions, uses a receiver box powered by the motorcycle's battery. The driver need only roll slowly past the school to download all the village's outgoing e-mail and deliver incoming e-mail. The school's computer system and antenna are powered by solar panels. Newly collected data is stored for the day in a computer strapped to the back of the motorcycle. At dusk, the motorcycles converge on the provincial capital, Ban Lung, where an advanced school is equipped with a satellite dish, allowing a bulk e-mail exchange with the outside world.
 The Motoman program is sponsored by American Assistance for Cambodia, a group based in Phnom Penh and run by Bernard Krisher, the Far East representative of the Media Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The Media Lab gives technical advice to the Motoman program, which offers third world schools a way to cut costs by sharing one dish and one uplink fee. 
 To some, the Motoman system is a cumbersome compromise, made necessary by a government that makes money through monopolies that inflate the prices of satellite dishes and uplink fees far beyond the means of villages like this one, where individual incomes average $1 a day.
 "The 50 poorest countries in the world get more money from telephone access fees than anything else," said Nicholas Negroponte, a founding director of the Media Lab. An advocate of an Internet bridge to rural Asia, Mr. Negroponte spoke outside a computer-equipped, online school he and his wife, Elaine, pay for 120 miles west of here. Almost as he spoke -- in early January -- police were raiding Internet cafes in Phnom Penh, confiscating equipment for making Internet telephone calls. The cafes charged as little as 5 cents a minute to call the United States, far below the government-mandated minimum of 96 cents for phone calls using conventional technology.
 In Phnom Penh, dozens of Internet cafes offer access for 50 cents an hour, and 20 stores sell used computers imported from Japan. About 1,000 Netizens a day log on to the Web site of King Norodom Sihanouk, www.norodomsihanouk.info. A used desktop computer can be bought for about $30 -- the monthly wage for a schoolteacher -- while used laptops can be had for as little as $50.
 About 75 percent of Cambodia's 13 million people, though, live in rural areas, and smooth roads and utility lines usually stop at the edge of the provincial capital. The village of O Siengle, a collection of wooden houses on stilts, is emblematic of life for the millions of Asians who live on the unwired side of the digital divide.
 From this village to Ban Lung, the capital of Ratanakiri Province, is only 18 miles. But even in the dry season, it is a jolting two-hour ride in a sturdy Russian-made jeep.
 Users say the Motoman system is starting to change lives.
"It helps us with our diagnoses," Chanmarith Ly, deputy director of the provincial hospital in Ban Lung, said of the telemedicine project that allows him to send photographs of patients, X-rays, ultrasounds and electrocardiograms to specialists in Boston at Partners Telemedicine, a program of the Partners HealthCare System. Doctors from the staff of Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School review the files and send diagnoses, all pro bono.
 Joseph C. Kvedar, a Partners doctor who directs the Boston end of the telemedicine project, saw the value of the effort when he visited the eight doctors at the Ban Lung hospital in November.
 "The Cambodian doctors know how to do malaria, tuberculosis, chronic tropical infection conditions like diarrhea, dengue fever," he said by telephone from Boston. "But diabetes, hypertension, the diseases of the modern world, are just not in their lexicon. It is a perfect fit."
 Still, once-a-day e-mail service has its drawbacks. A few steps from Dr. Ly's hospital office, Kuy Sothy, a 21-year-old teacher, lay on a hospital bed, recovering from a severe bout of malaria.
 "I sent the e-mail to the hospital," she said, resting on a woven rattan mat. 
 Bunthan Hun, the project's local technology director, interjected, "We got the e-mail, but you got here first." Indeed, the same motorcycle that carried Miss Sothy to the hospital carried the Wi-Fi box with her e-mail message.
 The Americans behind the project hope that e-mail will also bring economic benefits by connecting rural people and their products to wider markets. 
 In Rovieng, where Mr. Negroponte finances his school, women weavers sell their raw silk scarves and ties through www.villageleap.com, a Web site operated by Mr. Krisher's group. Once marginalized, these traditional weavers now have among the town's highest incomes. Here in Ratanakiri, a land-locked province bordering southern Laos and the central highlands of Vietnam, Mr. Krisher hopes to market local products eventually through an informational Web site he maintains, www.ratanakiri.com.
 For the younger generation, the new school computers are like magnets. While the shelf of donated books gathered dust, the computers gathered knots of students, dressed in blue and white uniforms.
 "I very much want to go to high school, but I don't know if I can because we are poor," said Chenda Prom, 15 years old. Studying the keyboard, she added, "I want to learn computers for my future."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Ratanakiri Province, e-mail goes by electronic pony express. This Motoman is equipped with a Wi-Fi chip set. (Photo by Elena Aframova for The New York Times); Chenda Prom, a 15-year-old student in O Siengle, sees computers as her future. (Photo by James Brooke/The New York Times); Children cluster to watch as schoolteachers read e-mail in Ratanakiri Province. (Photo by Elena Aframova for The New York Times) Map of Cambodia highlighting O Siengle: O Siengle, in northeast Cambodia, has neither electricity nor telephones.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (74%); TRENDS (73%); MOTORCYCLES (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CAMBODIA; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (56%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CAMBODIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



662 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Music Royalties Rise, Even as CD Sales Fall 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Despite the travails of the music industry, with CD sales still slumping and record executives still suing suspected Internet pirates, one part of the business is thriving. Royalties paid to songwriters and music publishers from radio and television broadcasts of their songs, and from live performances, are at record highs. 
 "When it comes to the downloading issue, which is killing record labels and music publishers, we're only indirectly affected by it," said Bill Velez, the head of Sesac, one of the leading performing rights organizations in the United States. "We're able to weather economic storms better than other segments of the entertainment industry." 
 In 2003, America's three recognized performing rights organizations -- Sesac, B.M.I. and Ascap -- reported record revenues, which, in turn, have generated bigger royalties distributions to songwriters and music publishers. 
 Ascap -- the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, a nonprofit association -- is the oldest and by most measures the largest of the performing rights organizations in the United States. Its preliminary data indicate that Ascap took in $668 million in 2003, 5.2 percent more than in the previous year. The association plans to release its official year-end results at its annual meeting in February.
 B.M.I. -- Broadcast Music Inc., also a nonprofit and the longtime chief competitor to Ascap -- reported that revenue in its last fiscal year, which ended in October, increased 9.7 percent, to nearly $630 million, from $574 million in fiscal 2002. 
 Sesac -- once known as the Society of European Stage Authors and Composers, now based in Nashville -- is the smallest of the three and the only for-profit organization of the group. Mr. Velez declined to disclose revenue, but said Sesac had gains in 2003 of about 30 percent, which he said continued the pace of the last decade. 
 Performing rights organizations track and collect royalty fees for public performances of copyrighted music and distribute the money to the copyright owners. Their role is to ensure that songwriters, composers and music publishers are paid for the use of their creations on broadcast radio and on network, cable and satellite television as well as in public places. 
 Senior executives of the three organizations credited their revenue growth mainly to royalties collected from two relatively robust media: radio and cable television. They also said there were more public performance outlets now than ever: live concerts, restaurants, nightclubs, taverns, amusement parks, shopping malls, health clubs, cruise ships, even telephone on-hold music. 
 The organizations have expanded their coverage in recent years to more businesses, some of which had once been considered inconsequential or not worth the expense of pursuing for license fees. 
 "If you had told me 20 years ago that we would get around to licensing funeral homes, I would never have believed it," Mr. Velez said. 
 One of the most rapidly expanding new sources of performance royalties, the executives say, is cellphone ring tones, digitized melodies that play on mobile phones. Last year, 9.9 million people purchased cellphone ring tones in the United States, paying a total of nearly $57 million, according to IDC, a technology research firm. 
 Downloadable ring tones, typically costing $1 to $2, are the most popular Internet content offered for download, said Dana Thorat, an analyst at IDC, who projected that sales of tones would exceed $1 billion by 2007. Even if performance royalties add up to only a small percentage of that total, the revenue to songwriters and publishers could be tens of millions of dollars. 
 New technologies, including "audio fingerprinting" and music identification software, have helped the organizations track music use around the world more easily and efficiently, trimming operating costs. 
 Each performing rights organization has a roster of affiliated songwriters and publishers from all genres; they license only the copyrighted works of their artists. 
 Ascap represents more than 170,000 songwriters, lyricists and music publishers and has a catalog of about eight million musical works. B.M.I. has close to double that number of creative artists and publishers, with 300,000 affiliates, although its song repertoire of 4.5 million compositions is only about half as large. Sesac represents 4,000 songwriters and 3,000 publishers, but counts some widely known artists on its roster, including Bob Dylan and Neil Diamond. 
 As royalties from album sales decrease, Frances W. Preston, the president of B.M.I., said, songwriters have become more dependent on performing rights organizations to maintain a steady income.
 "The bottom hasn't dropped out of the performing rights business," Ms. Preston said. "They look to us for their royalties because the record company royalties, in some cases, are almost nonexistent."
 Approximately 50 percent to 75 percent of songwriters' compensation now comes from performance royalties, according to B.M.I. 
 The increase in such royalties has been the music industry's "one saving grace," in the view of Carey Ramos, a lawyer for the National Music Publishers' Association, which represents music publishers and songwriters. Mr. Ramos said increased performance royalties had helped songwriters offset some lost income from mechanical royalties, as fees from record sales are known. But, he added, "I'm quite sure it doesn't make up for the mechanical losses, by any stretch of the imagination." 
 From 1996 to 1999 -- the year the file sharing service Napster began -- annual collections of mechanical royalties grew 18.5 percent, Mr. Ramos said, while performance royalties increased 19.8 percent. From 2000 to 2002, he said, mechanical royalties fell 22 percent, while performance royalties kept growing, by 13.6 percent. 
 "The continued rise in public performance royalties reflects a growing demand for music," he said. "That tends to confirm that the dramatic decline in mechanicals is attributed to Internet piracy, not because there is less demand for music."
 Although the Internet has proved a challenge to the business practices of record labels and music creators, the performing rights organizations recognized almost immediately its potential as a major source of royalty revenues. Ascap, B.M.I. and Sesac have licensed several thousand Internet sites and online music subscription services that use streaming audio technologies.
 "After tracking radio and television and cable for all of these years, suddenly you're tracking something much bigger than all of that put together," Ms. Preston said of the Internet. 
 "Where I think a lot of other people in the business were spending time with lawyers trying to find ways to sue everybody," she said, "it was pretty clear to us that the public had accepted all of this new technology. There was no way to kill it even if you wanted to. So, you might as well get out there and embrace it and find out how you can license it and how you can collect from it." 
 Still, the expansive and unruly Internet has not been an easy outlet to license, nor has it become the pot of gold that the performing rights organizations had expected. 
 "Because of piracy, the Internet has not been able to grow as other broadcast venues of entertainment have grown," John LoFrumento, chief executive of Ascap, said. Ascap, for example, took in just $10 million in royalties last year from about 2,000 Internet licensees, a pittance compared with the group's overall revenue. Mr. LoFrumento said Internet collections had doubled annually in the last few years, however, and he predicted that the Web, in time, would be a significant revenue source. 
 Radio and television, meanwhile, are likely to continue providing the bulk of performance royalties. 
 "It's a growth industry," Mr. Velez of Sesac said. "Unless there's a total catastrophe in terms of a recession, and radio stations and TV stations go out of business in leaps and bounds and can't pay their license fees, unless something like that happens we're going to have a good year every year."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carey Ramos, a lawyer for music publishers, with a photo of the composers Duke Ellington, Benny Goodman and Richard Rodgers watching Ella Fitzgerald sing. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) Chart: "Performance Pay"The music industry is in a slump, including royalties paid for recordings. But fees paid for rights to broadcast music or perform it publicly continue to grow. Graph tracks recording royalties from 1993-2003 (estimate). Graph tracks performance royalties* from 1993-2002 *Data for 2003 are not yet available (Source by National Music Publishers' Association Annual Survey of Publishing Revenue)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (94%); ROYALTIES (92%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); RECORD REVENUES (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (90%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); SONG WRITING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); MUSIC (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARITIME PIRACY (78%); COPYRIGHT (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET CRIME (78%); RETAILERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WRITERS (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (77%); TRENDS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); TRADEMARK LAW (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (65%); RESTAURANTS (63%); DRINKING PLACES (63%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) MUSIC, OPERA AND MUSICAL RECORDINGS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, COPYRIGHTS AND PIRACY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: BROADCAST MUSIC INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: BROADCAST MUSIC INC (82%); NATIONAL MUSIC PUBLISHERS' ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF COMPOSERS AUTHORS & PUBLISHERS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (82%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (82%) SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



663 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Vodafone May See AT&T Wireless As Possible Last Piece to an Empire 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
Vodafone is in a bind.
 The company, the world's largest cellular telephone carrier, has long sought control of a major player in the United States to provide a strategic missing link for its far-reaching empire. So, when AT&T Wireless announced last week that it was putting itself on the block, Wall Street speculation was rampant that Vodafone would swoop in with a takeover offer. 
 That, the speculation went, would start a bidding war with Cingular, the second-largest wireless company in the United States and the current favorite to buy AT&T Wireless, the No.3. 
 Vodafone has the financial wherewithal to make a serious run at AT&T Wireless, which has 21.9 million subscribers and is expected to sell for more than $30 billion.
 And certainly Vodafone has strong strategic incentives. Verizon's C.D.M.A.-based network format is not compatible with the G.S.M.-based standard that Vodafone uses elsewhere in the world, while the AT&T Wireless network is built upon a variant of G.S.M. Vodafone would prefer that its customers worldwide all be G.S.M. users, to make it easier for them to use the same phones everywhere. 
 But Vodafone, built by an acquisition spree in the 1990's, has a big problem: If it wants to buy AT&T Wireless it must unravel its complicated and sometimes contentious investment in Verizon Wireless. Although Verizon is the largest mobile phone company in the United States, with 36 million subscribers, Vodafone is the minority partner, with a stake of about 45 percent. 
 Also, it would probably not be practical for Vodafone to buy AT&T Wireless, and simultaneously fulfill another of its long-held ambitions: to take over SFR, the French mobile phone company owned by Vivendi.
 Vodafone, which has some 130 million subscribers worldwide, wants SFR because it would fill a gap for the company in Europe. In November, in fact, Vodafone's chief executive, Arun Sarin, bluntly told investors during a presentation to shareholders, "Our aspiration is to buy it, and you can quote me on that."
 Vodafone officials declined to comment for this article. But people close to the company say the prospect of bidding for AT&T Wireless and gaining full control of a large slice of the United States market has put executives at Vodafone's headquarters in Newbury, England, on full alert. 
 The time would appear ripe for Vodafone to seek to shed its stake in Verizon and make AT&T Wireless its American surrogate. In the summer, Vodafone will have its annual opportunity to demand that Verizon buy out Vodafone's 45 percent share, and this year might finally be the time to insist on it. 
 If it does not bid for AT&T Wireless, Vodafone would face the possibility of never having a big, stand-alone presence in the United States. Vodafone is not likely ever to achieve that status by buying out its partner, Verizon.
 Even in the unlikely event that Verizon would consider such a deal, Vodafone might find it untenable because of the network incompatibility issue -- which became especially divisive after Verizon chose to upgrade its networks in 2001 using a next-generation C.D.M.A. format, C.D.M.A. 2000, shunning Vodafone's version of G.S.M. 
 Similar technical barriers also make it unlikely that Vodafone would seek acquisitions of Sprint or Nextel in the United States. That would leave Cingular and T-Mobile as the only other possible targets in the United States. But neither appears willing to sell.
 Vodafone and Mr. Sarin have remained silent about what they plan to do. Cornered at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, last Thursday by a reporter for Reuters, Mr. Sarin would say only this: "We have a partnership with Verizon Wireless. Do we watch what's going on in the United States, or how it can affect us? Yes."
 Executives close to the auction for AT&T Wireless say that while Vodafone has indicated that it may have interest in bidding, it has yet to make even an informal offer.
 "We believe investors currently do not expect Vodafone to react at this stage, and that may still be the most likely outcome," the London brokerage firm Cazenove wrote in a note to clients last week. "The key question is whether circumstances have now changed sufficiently to act as a catalyst for an aggressive Vodafone move."
 Mr. Sarin, who took over at Vodafone after the company's architect, Sir Christopher Gent, retired last summer, has been insistent publicly that he is not nearly as interested in making big deals as his predecessor did. "Don't expect acquisition and retention to grow faster than margins," he recently said.
 When Vodafone meets with shareholders on Wednesday to report its third-quarter results, investors are expected to seek assurance from Mr. Sarin that Vodafone will not make a bid for AT&T Wireless.
 But if Mr. Sarin does not get on the buyout bandwagon quickly, it is uncertain whether Vodafone will be able to keep growing at the rapid clip it has in recent years, analysts said.
 "While we expect Vodafone can grow its share of total profits in saturated mobile markets, we believe this will take years to play out," John Karidis and Ken Wotton, analysts at Commerzbank, wrote in a note to investors in which they downgraded the stock of Vodafone to equal weight from overweight. The note went on to criticize the company's recent share-buyback plan as "too modest to stress management's view that the stock is very cheap."
In New York, Vodafone's American depository receipts, each representing 10 shares, closed on Friday at $26.71, down 49 cents.
 If Mr. Sarin does decide to pursue a deal with AT&T Wireless, he will have to do some fancy footwork with his partners at Verizon Wireless. 
 Unraveling the Verizon partnership could become messy. For Vodafone, selling its stake would entail enormous taxes and other payments. Vodafone currently has a complex "put" arrangement that would allow it to sell its stake back to Verizon during a brief window this summer. 
 But executives close to Vodafone suggest that Mr. Sarin might try to negotiate a new deal with Verizon instead of exercising the put agreement with Verizon. One possibility might be to swap Verizon's stake in Vodafone's Omnitel in Italy, to make the taxes on such a transaction less burdensome. A new deal may be attractive to Verizon, if it means finally getting full control of the company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arun Sarin of Vodafone said last week that his company was watching the American market. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C5) Chart: "Purchasing Power"With a stock market value $181 billion, Vodafone has the financial heft to consider making acquisitions. Graph tracks trading in Vodafone's American Depository Receipts in 2002 and 2003.(One A.D.R.=10 ordinary shares) (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (95%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); GLOBAL SYSTEM FOR MOBILE COMMUNICATION (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (96%); AT&T INC (95%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (84%); VIVENDI (53%)

ORGANIZATION: VODAFONE GROUP PLC (VOD); CINGULAR; AT&T WIRELESS 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VOD (NASDAQ) (92%); VOD (LSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); VIV (PAR) (53%); VIV (BIT) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: ARUN SARIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (66%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



664 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: MOST WANTED: DRILLING DOWN/TELEVISION; 
Slower Growth in Cable

BYLINE:  By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
Global growth of cable television is slowing. The number of cable subscribers worldwide grew by only 3 percent in 2003, to a total of 332 million households, or 32 percent of the world's households with television sets. 
In-Stat/MDR, the technology research company in Scottsdale, Ariz., that compiled the data said last year's growth rate was down from 8 percent in each of the previous two years.
 A lot of cable subscribers are switching to satellite, said Michael Paxton, a senior analyst with In-Stat/MDR. Other reasons include the saturation of the market in North America and parts of Europe, he said, and the high costs of building and operating cable systems, an impediment especially in parts of Asia and Latin America. 
 Mr. Paxton said most of the recent growth in cable subscribers had occurred in China and India -- which together account for more than 40 percent of the world's cable subscribers. The United States lost 500,000cable subscribers last year, with most of those households switching to satellite, Mr. Paxton said. He did note one increase: the number of digital cable subscribers in the United States grew to 23 million in 2003, up from 19 million a year earlier. SUSAN STELLIN

GRAPHIC: Photo: A TV shopper in Beijing Graph tracks cable subscribers worldwide (In millions) from 1998-2003. Graph tracks countries with greatest number of cable subscribers in Dec. 2003: ChinaCABLE SUBSCRIBERS (MILLIONS): 98SHARE OF TV HOUSEHOLDS WITH CABLE: 35% U.S.CABLE SUBSCRIBERS (MILLIONS): 68SHARE OF TV HOUSEHOLDS WITH CABLE: 63 IndiaCABLE SUBSCRIBERS (MILLIONS): 41SHARE OF TV HOUSEHOLDS WITH CABLE: 49 GermanyCABLE SUBSCRIBERS (MILLIONS): 18SHARE OF TV HOUSEHOLDS WITH CABLE: 50 JapanCABLE SUBSCRIBERS (MILLIONS): 12SHARE OF TV HOUSEHOLDS WITH CABLE: 26 (Source by In-Stat/MDR)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TELEVISION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (52%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (74%); ASIA (73%); INDIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



665 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
The Bottom Line, a Place Where the Music Always Came First

BYLINE:  By JON PARELES

 BODY:
Modest to the end, the Bottom Line closed quietly on Thursday. There was no big farewell concert, no tearful leave-taking. The owners, Allan Pepper and Stanley Snadowsky, didn't wait for New York University, their landlord, to follow through on its right to evict the club. They packed up and left just weeks before the club's 30th birthday. 
 The Bottom Line owed more than $185,000 in back rent and could not agree on a new lease with N.Y.U., which was demanding a $1.5 million renovation and an initial 250 percent rent increase when negotiations broke down. Lately the club had gathered sponsorships and promises to pay off its back rent (from Bruce Springsteen, Viacom and Sirius satellite radio, among others) on the condition that it work out a new lease, and it had offered to set up programs for N.Y.U. students. But with eviction looming, the club stopped booking shows in mid-January. 
 For a music lover the place always seemed too good to last. The Bottom Line was a grand anomaly among clubs: a place where the music came first. In the end, it seemed, its owners weren't greedy enough. 
The Bottom Line amply earned its fond place in the memories of a generation of listeners. Discreetly and consistently the Bottom Line put musicians in front of audiences who came for no other reason than to pay attention to the music. The room was dark and high-ceilinged with rainbow-muraled walls, and the stage receded into the background of a performance.
With a capacity of 400, the club was large enough to present nationally and internationally known musicians. Yet it was also intimate enough to confer bragging rights on the fans who saw Mr. Springsteen, Dolly Parton, Joao Gilberto or the Police perform there.
The Bottom Line did the small but essential things right. Performances started promptly and were heard through a trusty sound system. The audience was comfortable, since the Bottom Line had a fixed number of seats and tables. Yet diehard fans could still get in because the club sold tickets for standing room at the bar on the night of the show. Nearly every seat provided clear sightlines to the stage despite the infamous black pillars holding up its ceiling.
The club maintained good relationships with musicians, some of whom, like the guitarist David Bromberg, came back year after year. And it had a no-smoking policy well before the city's other clubs were forced to do the same.
In the economics of clubs, bands are usually paid from admission receipts, while club owners make their profits on food and drink. It pays to keep people waiting and drinking, and to nurture a bar scene. But the Bottom Line didn't squeeze out its audiences' last dollars. While the club served alcohol and some well-greased food, it wasn't a neighborhood bar with a stage tucked in, or a restaurant with an entertainment annex. It wasn't a lounge, a dance club, a hangout or a posing ground for hipsters, either.
It was, as billed from the start, a cabaret. During performances, conversations stopped, and waitresses became less than aggressive about pushing the next round of drinks. Last call came before the music was over. People went to the Bottom Line to see what was on the stage that night, and they left (or were sent home) shortly after the last encore. On nights when there was no show, the club was closed. 
When the Bottom Line opened in 1974, it quickly became a showcase for acts being touted by record companies. Corporate credit cards paid a lot of drink tabs and admissions, particularly in the club's first two decades. Executives, media representatives and freeloaders occupied the reserved tables in the back; fans were in the front, close to the musicians.
It was an era of folk-pop singer-songwriters, and the Bottom Line was perfect for them, although it also presented performers as disparate as Miles Davis, the Ramones, Ravi Shankar and the contemporary chamber-music quartet Tashi (on a daring bill with the avant-garde jazz saxophonist Anthony Braxton).
The Bottom Line was a civilized place to hear music for audiences who wanted to sit and listen. And that may have contributed to its troubles. Most rock clubs have moved away from the cabaret model, as concertgoing has become more of a contact sport.
Folky guitar strummers, pop balladeers and jazz groups still prefer quiet, seated audiences. But they have been outflanked and outnumbered by indie rockers, hip-hop acts, punks, metal bands, rhythm-and-blues acts and jam bands, all of which are used to making their audiences move.
Young music fans don't mind being shoulder to shoulder at a concert, bouncing or even moshing to the beat. The setup turns a performance into a social event. Of course standing audiences are a bonanza for club owners, who can pack more bodies into the same space. That in turn allows a club to offer bigger fees to bands, sometimes with lower admission prices, competition the Bottom Line probably couldn't match. Record-company showcases have moved to clubs like the Bowery Ballroom, which has a handful of tables on a balcony above the dance floor. 
In recent years the Bottom Line had less-than-packed houses and an older crowd. Its bookings had been relying on longtime stalwarts like David Johansen, and on series like In Their Own Words, an informal songwriters' roundtable, or Required Listening, a showcase for new songwriters, that it presented with the public-radio station WFUV.
The club didn't latch onto some other performers who might have suited the cabaret setting, like neo-soul songwriters (though it recently presented Anthony Hamilton), and it clung to its longtime routine of two shows a night by the same performer. (Joe's Pub, a smaller cabaret, often has a different performer at its early and late sets, then turns into a disc-jockey lounge after 11 p.m., while Fez, another cabaret, is the basement extension of the Time Cafe, a busy bar and restaurant.) In hindsight the Bottom Line probably could also have sought sponsorships before its back rent mounted so high, or hired itself out more frequently as a broadcast studio.
Fast-rising new bands are likely to appear at standing-room clubs like the Bowery Ballroom, the Mercury Lounge, the Knitting Factory, Northsix, Southpaw, Sin-e or Lit; bigger places like Irving Plaza and Roseland are also standing-room clubs. Yet there should have been room in New York for one major club that was not single-mindedly striving for the cutting edge.
The Bottom Line was still the right place to hear Jane Siberry's mystical pop-folk songs or Ute Lemper's chilling modern cabaret interpretations. With the club gone, New York is considerably less hospitable to folk-circuit regulars as well as to the British trad-rockers that the club never abandoned. Its shows full of local stalwarts, like the annual "Downtown Messiah" and its era-by-era pop retrospectives called "The Beat Goes On," are unlikely to find a more congenial place to resurface. 
Like all venerable clubs that close their doors, the Bottom Line takes with it the peculiar confluence of real estate, acoustics, bookings, memories and lingering physical vibrations that added up to transform an empty room into a landmark. I'll miss it, and so will New York.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Bottom Line, which closed quietly last week, just shy of its 30th birthday, presented a wide range of performers. Bruce Springsteen, left, sang there in 1975. Ute Lemper appeared at the club in April. (Photo by Jack Vartoogian); (Photo by Larry C. Morris/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); EVICTION (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); SATELLITE RADIO (69%); SMOKING BANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (56%); VIACOM INC (56%)

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (56%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (56%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



666 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE SCENE; 
As New Hampshire Primary Nears, Few Can Recall a More Frenzied Final Weekend

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Jan. 25 

 BODY:
George Bruno was wincing like a man in pain. He had volunteered to play host at the final New Hampshire house party for Gen. Wesley K. Clark, to offer undecided friends and neighbors one last Sunday morning look at his candidate in his home state's most famous form of intimate electoral encounter. But there was nothing intimate about the stream of people coming up the front walk of Mr. Bruno's white clapboard Dutch colonial house here, bearing cookies, cameras and questions.
 "My house will hold 75 people, and I'm expecting 150," said Mr. Bruno, a longtime New Hampshire Democratic operative who held the final house party of the 1992 primary for Bill Clinton, then served as Mr. Clinton's ambassador to Belize. On Sunday he was welcoming the actors Ted Danson and Mary Steenburgen, as well as a Ford Expedition with a sign proclaiming it full of "New Hampshire Primary Diplomatic Observers," from Germany, France and Tajikistan. "It's insane," he said. 
 Once upon a time, a few months, years or political lifetimes ago, the New Hampshire primary may have been the place to watch candidates test their messages, sharpen their skills and face small batches of voters as candid, cranky and well informed as a convention of civics teachers. But on this final, frantic weekend of the race, for all but the fortunate few New Hampshire was the place to see candidates from a distance, on C-Span, in holding rooms or from behind a frosted pane of glass.
"We just thought it'd be a bunch of women here," said Bob Lord, a history teacher at Manchester Central High School, who went with his wife, Karen, to see his candidate, Howard Dean, and Dr. Dean's wife, Judith Steinberg Dean, at a 10 a.m. forum at Southern New Hampshire University on Sunday that spilled into three extra rooms. "We got here at 9:15 and barely got into the overflow room." 
Bob Mulholland, a longtime adviser to the California State Democratic Party, came to Manchester on a candidate-shopping trip this weekend, and with a friend from the British Labor Party, he managed to sneak into the Dean event through a back door. He, too, expressed surprise. "I think the Internet has changed crowd-building completely," Mr. Mulholland said.
In fact, residents said, this final primary weekend seemed much more intense than past ones, perhaps because of Dr. Dean's online organizing efforts, perhaps because polls continue to indicate a volatile contest or perhaps because Senator John Kerry's surprising win in the Iowa caucuses last week shook up the race and left New Hampshire voters in a position to dictate the next turn in the campaign story line.
That is a role they have relished for years.
"Although the media's persistent desire to engage in incestuous amplification seems to increase with every presidential election, there is always the hope that they will somehow comprehend the fact that Iowa merely sets up the table," wrote Charles Brereton, a longtime primary watcher up the road in Concord, in his book, "Primary Politics" (Peter E. Randall, 2003). "It is up to New Hampshire to determine the seating arrangements so that the dinner party is not proclaimed over just as the appetizer has been served."
New Hampshire has been the scene of great political drama before. Senator Eugene McCarthy's strong second-place showing behind President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968 upended that campaign year, inspiring Senator Robert F. Kennedy to enter the race days later and Johnson to withdraw within weeks. Bill Clinton's second place finish behind Paul E. Tsongas 12 years ago, in the face of questions about Gennifer Flowers and the draft, set him on the road to the nomination.
And New Hampshire voters are famously independent. Vice President Al Gore, who won the Iowa caucuses in 2000, staved off former Senator Bill Bradley here four years ago, but before that, the last candidate of either party to come in first in both Iowa and New Hampshire was Jimmy Carter in 1980.
So everywhere on Sunday, the crowds were big and the air was cold and crackling with expectation. New Hampshire voters mingled with out-of-state supporters and others along for the ride. At the Fairgrounds Junior High School in Nashua, John Wills pressed through an overflow crowd to try to get into the gymnasium where Senator John Edwards of North Carolina was speaking. Mr. Wills, who works in book publishing, had come from his home in Arlington, Va., inspired by Mr. Edwards's views on the economy, but he could not see his man. Three campaign volunteers blocked the door.
"Can't you prop the doors open," Mr. Wills asked, "or set up a speaker here in the hallway so people can hear?" But Mark Perriello, an Edwards volunteer, said he had to keep people out for their own safety. "If I open the doors, everyone will push through me," Mr. Perriello told him. "I'm a small guy."
Even celebrity did not guarantee a seat. The actress Glenn Close, who recently endorsed Mr. Edwards, squatted in blue jeans on the dusty floor of the school's cafeteria, where Mr. Edwards and his wife, Elizabeth, eventually spoke to about 400 people who could not get into the main event.
At a Kerry rally at Nashua High School South, Bob Pelletier, an oil company salesman, said he too was "astonished" at the turnout. "I was at a chili feed at a firehouse in Nashua a few weeks ago and there was no one there," Mr. Pelletier said. "Now I'm parking blocks away and I can barely get through the door."
At Mr. Bruno's house, stern greeters at first blocked even some of General Clark's senior aides from crossing the threshold.
"If I can't get in, you can't get in," his communications director, Matt Bennett, said with a shrug. Eventually, Clark aides did spirit themselves, the candidate's wife, Gertrude, and a handful of journalists into the Brunos' cozy house, where it was just possible to breathe and hear General Clark promise to "bring a higher standard of leadership to this country."
Others who wanted to hear Dr. Dean's speech were not so lucky. As campaign aides escorted reporters traveling with the candidate into the building, a security guard declared flatly: "You can't bring one more person in here. I don't care if Bush is out there. There's no more room."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some people hoping to hear Senator John Kerry speak yesterday at a high school gym in Nashua, N.H., were relegated to a hallway. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (77%); HISTORY (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); BILL CLINTON (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (91%); NASHUA, NH, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (53%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (99%); IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); FRANCE (78%); GERMANY (75%); ENGLAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



667 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Costa Rica to Be 5th Country In New Trade Pact With U.S. 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
After a one-month delay, Costa Rica agreed on Sunday to join the United States and four other Central American nations in a new regional free trade pact.
 The administration sees the pact as an important building block in its plans to extend the North American Free Trade Agreement throughout the Western Hemisphere. 
 Costa Rica, the wealthiest of the five Central American nations, held back its approval last month pending intensive negotiations with the United States over its demand that Costa Rica open up its telecommunications and insurance industries. 
Bringing Costa Rica into the agreement marks a welcome success for the administration after a series of disappointments in trade negotiations over the past year. 
Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, praised the agreement, known as the Central American Free Trade Agreement, or Cafta, saying it would create the second-largest market in Latin America for exports from the United States, after Mexico. The other nations involved are El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua.
"With each Central American nation, we worked to tailor market access provisions to reflect individual circumstances," Mr. Zoellick said in a statement, "and that work is now complete with Costa Rica."
Administration officials said Cafta would open the region for agricultural exports and other goods and services from the United States. It will also help prepare the domestic textile industry for stiff international competition next year, they said, when the global textile quota system is eliminated under an international trading agreement. China and other Asian nations, with their lower labor costs, are especially feared.
The creation of something like a textile free-trade area would make the United States cotton and textile industries part of a tariff-free supply chain with the garment factories of the Central American region.
"We believe this will be extremely helpful when competition over textiles heats up globally with the removal of quotas next year," a senior trade official said during a telephone press conference on Sunday.
The administration will have trouble convincing Congress that this agreement will help stanch the bleeding in the American textile industry, which has lost hundreds of thousands of jobs in the past three years. Senator Ernest F. Hollings, a Democrat of South Carolina and an avowed protectionist, has already asserted that Cafta will get rid of the rest of the jobs.
At least 80 percent of United States exports to the five countries will become duty free immediately if the pact is approved. The United States' trade with these five Central American countries is significant. They import $9 billion worth of products from the United States every year, the rough equivalent of American exports to Russia, India and Indonesia combined. And the United States imports $11 billion worth of goods from the five countries, with nearly three-fourths of the products entering duty free under special-preference programs.
The compromise announced on Sunday with Costa Rica would require a gradual opening of nearly every aspect of its insurance industry and three main areas of its telecommunications industry.
Supporters of the trade pact, which was negotiated in one year, view it as a long overdue helping hand to a region that has been ravaged for decades by war and economic deterioration. Mr. Zoellick said that the new trade agreement could also lead to stronger democracy in the region.
But critics say the pact asks too much from the smaller countries, especially in demands for protection of United States intellectual property rights, which could limit the availability of inexpensive medicines.
And while the United States won its demand foropening the countries for its agricultural exports, with gradual competition for essentials like onions, potatoes, corn and rice, it largely left the American sugar industry protected.
The administration's $19 billion in annual farm subsidies were not part of the negotiations.
The Dominican Republic is also negotiating with the United States to join Cafta. Mr. Zoellick began those discussions earlier this month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TEXTILES (89%); TEXTILE MFG (86%); GARMENT WORKERS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); APPROVALS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); AGRICULTURE (51%); APPAREL MFG (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); COSTA RICA (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); INDIA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



668 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: The Kennedy Comeback 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Unpenitent pollsters are now confident that John Kerry and John Edwards (sure we voted for the war, but who knew?) will repeat their one-two performance in New Hampshire. And that Howard Dean (I knew, that's who knew, and they didn't) will run ahead of Clinton stand-in Wesley Clark, thereby staying in contention. And that Joe Lieberman may do well with independents, though they are mostly November Republicans.
 These assumptions, to be tested soon enough, have Democratic soothsayers predicting a Kerry-Edwards ticket at the Boston convention. What delicious diversity: North and South, with Kerry's fatal Massachusettsism ameliorated by Edwards's Carolina charm; the experience of craggy Kerry enlivened by the passionate optimism of the boyish Edwards. 
 But the political philosophy these two men have embraced is lopsidedly leftist: In this campaign, they have clawed their way up the greasy pole of politics with a pitch that is pure populism. Both men have risen high in Democratic polls with a brand of class resentment and soak-the-rich rhetoric rooted in the old-fashioned liberalism of Ted Kennedy.
I used to think that the battle within the Democratic Party would pit the centrist Clinton Restoration, using Clark as its sacrificial lamb this time around, against the maverick antiwar, antiestablishment legion that Dean had excited. Though Dean also railed against the rich, his signature attraction was his antiwar anger. 
As Dean machine-gunned himself in the foot -- in gaffes that dismayed Iowans weeks before his primal pep talk -- his support did not switch to Clark, the inept amateur handled and financed by the Clintonites. Instead, many disillusioned Deaniacs went to a third faction that has long been lying in the Democratic weeds: the proponents of class warfare propounded for a generation by Ted Kennedy.
Not by John F. Kennedy, the president who cut taxes and would "bear any burden" in the defense of liberty. But by the Old Left led by his brother Teddy, scourge of conservative judges and free-market medicine, whose aging acolytes have tried to keep the not-so-hot liberal flame burning under the rich and powerful. 
The resuscitation of this long-dormant faction among Democrats surprised me. But with his campaign in the doldrums as Dean's restorative rage invigorated both the new Netties and the Old Left, John Kerry turned to his Senate senior and Massachusetts mentor for succor. 
Teddy dispatched his chief of staff, Mary Beth Cahill, to take control of the demoralized campaign from Jim Jordan, Kerry's insufficiently ideological longtime manager. Kennedy's Charles River Gang gave the previously independent-minded Kerry (his initials happily J.F.K.) a stridently populist economic line: that average, hard-working, patriotic Americans are being ripped off by a plundering bunch of robber barons represented by George W. Bush, who has sold out to the predatory "special interests."
This sounds a little outdated at a time when the very rich pay most federal income taxes and the poor pay none. But envy still sells to a leftist constituency, especially to Democrats worried at the way Republicans were slavering for a Dean nomination. Kerry caught the spirit as his health recovered. He combined Old Left oratory with memories of his Vietnam valor and subsequent antiwar activism. While Dean started to self-destruct and Clark turned out to be a slow study, there stood Kerry, a tall, serious man with the leonine Ted Kennedy posing proudly at his side.
To buttress my theory of the rebirth of the Old Left, consider the way Kerry's surprise runner-up in Iowa, John Edwards, has broken out of single digits in New Hampshire polls. Though the Southerner's success is attributed to his counter-programmed sunniness, at its heart is the identical Ted Kennedy class message: 
"Those Washington lobbyists are takin' your democracy away from you," says the Suthrin-talkin' former trial lawyer (avidly supported by the trial lawyers' lobby, which has driven up the price of health insurance). Edwards, though a freshman senator, has decades of experience in appealing to a jury's resentments against corporations, and has honed his "two Americas" theme into the smoothest call for enforced leveling since Huey Long's "every man a king."
Class warfare may work in primaries but tends to backfire in the general election. Would it work for Kerry-Edwards? Ask Al Gore. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICS (75%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (92%); TED KENNEDY (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JIM JORDAN (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (77%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



669 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE POLLS; 
Quirks Make the Science of Measuring the New Hampshire Primary Voter a Challenge

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Jan. 25 

 BODY:
Almost all of the dozen or so polls in the papers and on television here this weekend have Senator John Kerry with a lead of 15 to 20 percentage points going into Tuesday's Democratic primary.
 But based on the track record of four years ago, they could be way off the mark. 
 Then, most of the polls published just before the voting picked the winners in the primaries, but they missed the margin of victory by a mile. 
Most had John McCain with a narrow lead over George W. Bush in the Republican primary. One, the American Research Group, forecast a tie. In fact, Mr. McCain won by 48 percent to 30 percent. 
On the Democratic side in 2000, prominent final polls broadcast by CBS News and CNN had Al Gore with a double-digit lead over Bill Bradley. Mr. Gore ended up winning by 50 percent to 46 percent.
The New Hampshire primaries are hard to predict for two main reasons, said Linda L. Fowler, director of the Rockefeller Center for Social Science at Dartmouth. First, the rules make it uncommonly difficult for pollsters to determine who is going to vote. Second, New Hampshire voters tend to change their minds at the last moment.
Under the rules, voters can register at the polls on the day of the primary, and about 10 percent of those who voted in the 2000 primaries did so. 
In addition, 38 percent of the registered voters are independents. They can vote in whichever party primary they choose. Presumably, since the Democratic contest is the only one this week, a larger proportion of the undeclared voters will vote Democratic than did so four years ago when both parties had primaries. But the pollsters have no way of knowing what that proportion will be.
As for voters deciding late how to vote, 10 percent of Republicans and 15 percent of Democrats said as they left polling places in 2000 that they had not made up their minds until that day, and 36 percent of Republicans and 47 percent of Democrats said they had decided in the last week.
Put another way, researchers at Dartmouth who interviewed the same voters in 2000 a day or two before the election and a day or two afterward found that only 70 percent of those who said they planned to vote for Mr. McCain actually did so. For the other candidates, the figure was even lower: 50 percent for Mr. Bush, 50 percent for Mr. Bradley and 60 percent for Mr. Gore.
The polls published on Sunday counted 5 to 15 percent of likely voters as undecided.
"I have no way of knowing whether the people who say now they are going to vote for Kerry will really do it," Ms. Fowler said.
Other factors can also throw off the polls. One is that an increasing number of people now rely solely on cellphones. These potential voters cannot be reached by the pollsters, who survey a random sample based on all residential telephone numbers in a geographic area. 
Another factor is that New Hampshire is one of the fastest growing states outside the Sun Belt. Pollsters cannot be sure how the demographics, and therefore the politics, have changed since the last election.
The findings of the polls here have changed drastically since the Iowa caucuses last Monday. Until then, all showed Howard Dean with a solid lead. But since Mr. Kerry's victory in the caucuses and Dr. Dean's raucous speech afterward, Mr. Kerry's support here has boomed and Dr. Dean's has fallen sharply.
All this uncertainty has not discouraged the pollsters from plying their trade. Counting all the published polls and the private polls conducted by the candidates, Mr. Smith at the University of New Hampshire calculated that in the month before the 2000 primary, 325,000 New Hampshire households were called by pollsters.
That was more than one-third of the state's voting-age population. Mr. Smith called it "the polling equivalent of saturation bombing."
But when the polls turn out to be off base as they were here in 2000, it is embarrassing to the pollsters, Mr. Smith said. Elections, he observed, are the only time when pollsters' reliability is measured. 
When a pollster finds that, for example, 50 percent of Americans view President Bush's job performance as favorable or that 34 percent say the economy is getting better, there is no way to know whether these are accurate findings.
But pollsters' careers can be made or broken by how close they come to predicting election results.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "THE CANDIDATES: Different Surveys, Similar Results"Three recent New Hampshire telephone polls asked likely Democratic voters whom they would vote for if the Democratic primary for president were held that day. Jan. 22-24*KERRY: 37%DEAN: 22EDWARDS: 12CLARK: 11LIEBERMAN: 8Other or No Opinion: 9Voters asked: 463Margin of error in percentage points: plus or minus 5 Jan. 23-24+KERRY: 38%DEAN: 25EDWARDS: 9CLARK: 10LIEBERMAN: 12Other or No opinion: 6Voters asked: 688Margin of error in percentage points: plus or minus 4 Jan. 23-24**KERRY: 38%DEAN: 15EDWARDS: 12CLARK: 14LIEBERMAN: 7Other or No opinion: 14Voters asked: 400Margin of error in percentage points: plus or minus 5 *University of New Hampshire Survey Center for Fox News, WCVB-TV and WMUR-TV. +Gallup for CNN and USA Today. Respondents who did not express a candidate preference initially were then asked which candidate they lean toward supporting. **KRC Communications for The Boston Globe and WBZ-TV 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (96%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); AL GORE (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (56%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



670 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE OVERVIEW; 
With Race Near Fever Pitch, Candidates Zero In on Bush

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Glen Justice contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: NASHUA, N.H., Jan. 25 

 BODY:
Democratic presidential candidates campaigned in packed halls across New Hampshire on this last Sunday before the Democratic primary, winding up the contest in a frenzy of attacks on President Bush and raising expectations of a record turnout on Tuesday.
 Howard Dean, struggling to avoid a defeat that his own aides said could be devastating to his presidential hopes, told voters in Manchester that he believed he was in "striking distance" of a victory that only two weeks ago he had taken as assured. 
 Dr. Dean's aides called about 100 of the campaign's top donors to a five-hour meeting in Concord, in part to discuss what they said would be the severe fund-raising challenges he would face if he lost here, a matter of particular concern given what the aides said had been a huge expenditure of money on the losing effort in Iowa.
"We need to regain the momentum that clearly we lost as a result of the disappointment in Iowa," said Steven Grossman, Dr. Dean's national campaign chairman. 
Throughout the day, the candidates denounced Mr. Bush's economic and foreign policy: in one typical remark, Mr. Kerry described the foreign policy as "arrogant and inept." But mainly, it was a day for the candidates to avoid conflict with one another and set out the themes that have defined this campaign since the beginning. From here in southern New Hampshire to Hanover, in the western part of the state, and from the seacoast to the hills of Keene in the southwest, the candidates called for a sharp expansion of health care coverage and an end to tax cuts that benefit the wealthy. More than anything else, each presented himself as the Democrat who could beat Mr. Bush. 
New Hampshire voters responded to that appeal by turning out by the thousands across the state despite single-digit temperatures. At gyms and auditoriums, fire marshals were turning away voters who showed up to hear Dr. Dean, Senator John Edwards, Senator John Kerry, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman and Gen. Wesley K. Clark. Many were left to watch the events on television screens in overflow rooms.
"I think Edwards is a populist who has a valid message for this time of economic schisms," said John Wills, 44, who came here from his home in Arlington, Va., to see the candidates. "I'd like to hear what he has to say. But I can't get in."
The New Hampshire secretary of state, William M. Gardner, estimated that the turnout on Tuesday would be 184,000, exceeding the record set in the 1992 Democratic primary here when Bill Clinton struggled to second place after being battered by accusations of womanizing and draft dodging.
Polls continued to show Mr. Kerry with a lead, though a number of Democrats said they saw signs that Dr. Dean had stopped the erosion in his support after placing third in Iowa a week ago. At the same time, several Democrats noted that Mr. Edwards was, in these closing days, running a spirited campaign and drawing huge, enthusiastic crowds, as he did at the end of his campaign in Iowa, where he came in second.
In this volatile environment, candidates were grasping even the smallest sliver of good news. "Lieberman leaps into third place" read an enthusiastic e-mail message from Mr. Lieberman's campaign. The message announced a CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll showing that 12 percent of voters supported Mr. Lieberman. In the poll, Mr. Kerry was in the lead with 35 percent, and Dr. Dean had 25 percent.
Mr. Lieberman, from Connecticut, went on television to proclaim he had "Joe-mentum."
Meanwhile, Mr. Kerry's aides said that Dr. Dean's advisers were trying to play down expectations so that they could try to portray a second-place showing as a victory, much the way Mr. Clinton did in 1992.
Dr. Dean campaigned Sunday with his wife, Judith Steinberg Dean, appearing at a forum to discuss women's issues. Dr. Dean, who is usually disdainful of polls, spoke enthusiastically of some tracking polls -- overnight surveys that provide a rough measure of changing public opinions -- that suggested he was gaining on Mr. Kerry.
"We are going to work really hard and we are now in striking distance of winning," he said. "This is going to be a close race, this is going to be a tough race."
Dr. Dean turned down invitations to appear on the major morning network interview shows, a prominent platform that his opponents leaped at. The NBC program "Meet the Press" offered Dr. Dean a full hour on national television. George Stephanopoulos, the host of "This Week" on ABC, said he had gone so far as to trail Dr. Dean on Saturday and to rent a hotel room near one event so that Dr. Dean would have time for the interview.
"I spent the afternoon with him, and offered to do it any time, anywhere," Mr. Stephanopoulos said. "But the campaign said they couldn't make it work."
Dr. Dean, who has granted several softer-edged interviews with his wife, did agree to appear with the comedian Jon Stewart for a Sunday taping of his Comedy Central program, "The Daily Show." 
After a brief appearance on the trail in Iowa last week and a nationally televised interview on Thursday night, Mrs. Dean decided not only to spend Sunday in New Hampshire but also to cancel appointments with her Monday patients to stay by her husband's side.
"I wanted to be here because I want to be with Howard, and he asked me to be here," Mrs. Dean told a reporter from the local ABC affiliate, WMUR, in one of four television interviews the couple gave Sunday afternoon. 
Mr. Kerry, from Massachusetts, appeared at a rally in a sweltering high school gym here that was packed with supporters. The parking lots, filled with vehicles with Massachusetts license plates, suggested that this audience would not be of much help to him on Tuesday.
He moved from there to a crowded rally in Hampton on Sunday night, when he bantered -- speaking in what appeared to be fairly fluent French -- with a questioner who stopped him as walked off the stage.
Mr. Kerry did take a few shots at Dr. Dean. During a noontime visit to a quiet middle-class street in Merrimack, he met Diana Frothingham.
"We're trying to decide between you and Dean," Ms. Frothingham said.
When Mr. Kerry responded by emphasizing his "consistency," she asked, "Are you suggesting Dean is changing his position?"
"Yes," Mr. Kerry said.
On Fox News on Sunday, Mr. Kerry was critical of Dr. Dean for being critical recently, in particular attacking Mr. Kerry's support of the war in Iraq.
"Governor Dean, in the last few days -- after saying, two days ago, he was going to stop running a negative campaign -- has attacked Alan Greenspan, attacked all of his opponents and attacked me," Mr. Kerry said. "Well, I wonder when he's going to stop running the negative campaign he said he was going to stop running."
Mr. Edwards, from North Carolina, has rebuked candidates for running critical campaigns, leading to a decidedly more mellow competition here. He said on Sunday that he believed that appeal was helping him here.
"It got through in Iowa and now it's happening here in New Hampshire," Mr. Edwards said.
Still, inevitably in the final days of the race, the campaigns traded accusations of dirty tricks by way of phone calls to voters.
Dr. Dean's New Hampshire state director, Karen Hicks, sent an e-mail statement on Sunday criticizing what she said were various forms of harassing or misleading phone calls aimed at hurting his campaign. For instance, she said, some voters complained that they had been awakened by late-night calls from people falsely claiming to be with Dr. Dean's campaign, apparently a bid to alienate voters. She did not say which campaign she believed was responsible.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard Dean, left, Joseph I. Lieberman and Dennis J. Kucinich attended a candidatesforum on women's issues yesterday in Hanover, N.H. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FUNDRAISING (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); EROSION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); DENNIS KUCINICH (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%); BILL CLINTON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (73%); NASHUA, NH, USA (58%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



671 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Plans for Iraqi Sovereignty Are Hitting New Obstacles
The plans for a gradual political transition in Iraq have been further undermined by a delay in the drafting of an interim constitution and a serious new split in the Iraqi Governing Council. Many of the Shiite members now support immediate direct elections. A1

David A. Kay, who led the effort to find evidence of Iraq's illicit weapons until he resigned Friday, said American intelligence agencies wrongly gauged the unconventional weapons programs before the invasion and gave policy makers in Washington an exaggerated picture of the Iraqi threat. A1

Hezbollah Says Deal Is a Victory
The leader of Hezbollah cast a prisoner-exchange deal with Israel as a victory, and hinted that not all of the three Israeli soldiers kidnapped in 2000 who are to be part of the swap were dead, as the Israelis have assumed. The swap of the soldiers and an Israeli businessman for about 430 Palestinians, Lebanese and other Arabs is to take place on Thursday. A8

Palestinian's Expulsion Halted
Israel's high court suspended for 30 days the state's efforts to expel the Palestinian father of an Israeli soldier who has been living illegally in Israel for years, pending a hearing on granting him the right to remain in Israel. A8

Pakistan Nuclear Investigation
Pakistani investigators are looking into the real estate holdings and bank accounts of scientists involved in the country's nuclear program. Results are expected soon from the inquiry into whether nuclear technology was shared with Iran and Libya. A2

New Georgian President
Mikhail Saakashvili took office as president of Georgia, pledging to end corruption and seek an end to his nation's long-running wars of secession. The ceremony accorded special honors to the United States and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. A3

Bird Flu Chickens Slaughtered
Hundreds of soldiers and prisoners were dispatched in Thailand to slaughter chickens in flocks infected with avian influenza, as hospitals across southeast Asia remained on high alert. A3

NATIONAL A14-21

New Hampshire Blitzed As Primary Approaches
Democratic presidential candidates campaigned to packed halls across New Hampshire on the last Sunday before the Democratic primary, winding up the contest in a frenzy of attacks on President Bush and raising expectations of a record turnout on Tuesday. A19

Gen. Wesley K. Clark had the stage in New Hampshire to himself for several weeks while the other Democrats battled one another in Iowa. But now he is adjusting to an altered race. A1

Almost all of a dozen or so polls in the papers and on television in New Hampshire have Senator John Kerry with a lead of 15 to 20 percentage points. A20

Autism on the Rise
Cases of autism are rising sharply, and what lies behind the increase is being sharply debated. To some, it has all the hallmarks of an epidemic; others say it can in large part be explained by increased public awareness. A1

Avocado Theft Hurting Farms
In San Diego County, the source of nearly half of the nation's avocados, harvest season brings with it not only the promise of some $43.5 million worth of cilantro-laced party dip, but also a local crime: avocado theft. A1

Bush to Revamp Stream Law
The Bush administration is moving to revamp a stream-protection rule that Appalachian environmentalists view as their best weapon for fighting the strip-mining technique known as mountaintop removal. A14

Nuclear Safetey Questioned
Safety experts are questioning an effort by the nation's nuclear industry to expand its output by the equivalent of three large reactors without building a single new plant. A15

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Opportunity Finds Flatlands
Less than four hours after it bounded to the Martian surface, the rover Opportunity sent a 360-degree, black-and-white panoramic photograph of its surroundings. At its landing site, some large slabs of rock jut out the first exposed bedrock seen on Mars. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

After Police Shooting, A New Look at Roof Patrol
Responding to a police officer's killing of an unarmed man on the roof of a Brooklyn apartment building, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said he would convene a department panel of borough and field commanders to review the tactics used during the patrol of the stairs and roofs of apartment buildings. A1

Oyster Bar Strike Continues
At the Oyster Bar in Grand Central Terminal, workers have been on strike for seven weeks. The restaurant insists that the strike was not having much of a toll, though each day at lunchtime customers face a verbal gantlet from strikers picketing outside. B1

Pataki Stumps for Bush
Gov. George E. Pataki came to New Hampshire to campaign for President Bush as part of a concerted counterattack aimed at taking some of the spotlight off the seven Democrats vying for their party's nomination. B5

Neediest Cases B6

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

OBITUARIES B7

ARTS E1-10

Golden Globe Awards
At the Golden Globes, "The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King," the sweeping fantasy epic, was named best picture in the drama category. Sofia Coppola's quiet, low-budget "Lost in Translation" won best picture in the comedy category. The awards are voted on by the 90-member Hollywood Foreign Press Association. E1

'Millionaire' to Return
"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire," the most successful game show in the history of prime-time television until ABC burned through its popularity by overexposing it, will return next month, complete with Regis Philbin, the hot seat, the lifelines and the steady progression of cash prizes. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

A Different Recovery Leads to a Different Fed
Officials from the Federal Reserve have made it clear that they view this economic recovery as different from those in the past, and they seem determined to continue their policy of low interest rates, even though the economy seems poised for its fastest growth in four years. C1

Company to Bid for Aventis
In an offer encouraged by the French government, Sanofi-Synthlabo, the French pharmaceutical company, is planning to announce a $63 billion hostile bid in cash and shares for its national rival, Aventis, executives said. A6

Source Disputes Account
A human rights advocate identified by Jack Kelley, the USA Today correspondent who resigned under pressure this month, as a source for a 1999 article about ethnic cleansing in a Kosovo village disputes many of the details in the article. C1

Walters Leaving '20/20'
After conducting some of the most memorable television interviews of the last quarter-century, Barbara Walters has informed the president of ABC News, David Westin, that she will step down from "20/20" in September. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Iraq's undemocratic transition; a stadium too far; Gail Collins on the New Hampshire primary.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Autos D9
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E6
TV Listings E9
Crossword E6
Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEZBOLLAH (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (67%); REAL ESTATE (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); CORRUPTION (65%); INFLUENZA (62%); AUTISM (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (56%); HOSPITALS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (85%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (98%); ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA (90%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); THAILAND (77%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



672 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: A Recovery Unlike Others Seems to Alter FedRate View 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
If this economic recovery were like almost any other in the last several decades, President Bush might well be on a classic election-year collision course with the Federal Reserve.
 But Fed officials have made it clear that they view this recovery as quite different from those in the past, and they seem determined to continue their policy of offering remarkably cheap money, even though the economy seems poised for its fastest growth in four years. 
 The Fed's staying of the course would be welcome news to President Bush's re-election campaign. The first President Bush assigned part of the blame for his re-election defeat in 1992 to decisions by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, to keep interest rates relatively high. 
 The difference this time is that inflation, running at barely 1 percent and still slowing, is -- if anything -- lower than Fed officials would like. Job creation, meanwhile, remains weaker than in any recovery since World War II and factory use remains at surprisingly low levels.
Analysts all but unanimously predict that when the Fed's policy-making committee meets on Tuesday and Wednesday, members will leave the federal funds rate -- the interest rate at which banks lend to each other overnight -- at just 1 percent and will probably offer few new hints about rate increases in the future.
 Most analysts expect the Fed will essentially reiterate its position that interest rates can remain low for "a considerable period" and to say that the balance of risks has not changed since members of the Federal Open Market Committee met in December.
 "Federal Reserve officials will convene next week amid growing signs of potentially spectacular divergence between economic growth and inflation prospects," Robert DiClemente, a senior economist at Citigroup, wrote on Friday. "Fundamentals point to a period of very low inflation, keeping the F.O.M.C. sidelined next week and well into the future."
 Economic growth soared at an annual rate of 8.2 percent in the third quarter of last year, and the consensus view among forecasters is that the economy will grow by 4 percent in 2004.
 Almost all business surveys point to strong growth in business spending and investment. Orders for new equipment, shipments of manufactured goods and business confidence have all been up. Construction of new homes, which many forecasters had thought would start to fade, is still running at near-record rates.
 But Fed officials have been focused on two other factors: the near absence of inflation and the stubbornly sluggish rate of job creation. In the stated view of Mr. Greenspan, the economy continues to have a great deal of slack in both the labor market and the utilization of factories.
 Job creation, which jumped last fall in what seemed like a significant turnaround in the unemployment outlook, cooled to a tepid level in November and essentially halted in December. Though the unemployment rate drifted downward to 5.7 percent in December, from 5.9 percent the previous month, that was almost entirely because as many as 300,000 discouraged workers had stopped looking for jobs.
 But Fed officials appear to have been more focused on the outlook for inflation. To the surprise of many forecasters, the core rate of inflation, excluding prices for food and energy, slowed to an annual rate of just 1.1 percent last year.
 Although Mr. Greenspan has refused to embrace any specific inflation target, Fed officials have signaled that they are uncomfortable when inflation drops below 1 percent. Fed officials believe prices could be poised to climb at an annual rate of 0.5 percent to 1.5 percent, and many would be happier to see them climb at the higher rate.
 In December, Fed officials briefly rattled financial markets by announcing after their policy meeting that the risks of deflation had declined and were now almost equal to the risks of excessive inflation. Many took the Fed's statement as an early signal that rate increases might be in store by late spring. But Fed officials have since driven home the point that the risk of inflation is low enough and that the rise in productivity is high enough that they can afford to be patient.
 Until recently, many economists were betting that Mr. Greenspan would start pushing up interest rates by this spring, just as President Bush moved into the height of his re-election battle. That prospect is still possible, but doubtful. Though some economists still predict that the Fed will start to tighten monetary policy by this summer, most predict that rates will remain low through the end of this year.
 Although the effects of tighter monetary policy usually lag the economy by six months, Mr. Bush still stands to benefit. Largely because Fed officials have signaled that they will keep the federal funds rate low for quite a while, long-term interest rates and mortgage rates have declined in recent weeks. 
 Indeed, home mortgage rates are now near the extremely low levels of last summer, when homeowners began a frenzy of refinancing their homes. 
 But a number of economists are openly uncomfortable with Fed policy, because they worry that inflation is more imminent than the central bank seems to believe.
 "We feel that core inflation will be going up in 2004," said Richard DeKaser, chief economist at National City Bank in Cleveland. Mr. DeKaser and some other economists contend that labor costs may be poised to grow more rapidly than in the late 1990's. Health care insurance costs are rising at double-digit rates, companies are being forced to make bigger contributions to employee pension funds and far fewer employees are willing to accept stock options in place of higher wages.
 So far, the only concrete harbinger of inflation has been a sharp rise in prices for commodities ranging from oil and gold to farm products and steel scrap. But those price increases have yet to translate into higher producer prices or higher consumer prices.And until they do, Mr. Greenspan and other top Fed officials have signaled their willingness to wait. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); SHIPMENTS (73%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (60%); WORLD WAR II (52%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) BUSH, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



673 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Coming Soon to a Screen Near You: New Mexico

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE 

 BODY:
As many cash-short states reduce financing for their film offices, New Mexico is headed defiantly in the opposite direction. Blessed with a budget surplus, the state has started one of the nation's most aggressive film incentive programs, resulting in a flurry of projects like the somber "21 Grams" from Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu and "The Missing," a violent tale of abduction, from Ron Howard.
 The New Mexico Film Office estimates that filmmaking in the state -- counting salaries, lodging, food and transportation -- generated $80 million in spending in 2003, up from $8 million a year earlier. With several more projects planned this year, Frank Zuniga, director of the film office, said, "I have every confidence that we'll have double the financial impact in 2004." 
 How times have changed. Jon Hendry, a Scot who arrived in New Mexico 19 years ago to work on the set of the western "Silverado" and never left, was despondent about its film industry a couple of years ago.
 "I was tired of not doing anything, of being unemployed," said Mr. Hendry, the business agent for New Mexico's film technicians union. Last year, membership in his union surged to 400 from 60. 
 The force behind New Mexico's film boom was the creation of an $85 million fund that invests directly in film projects through no-interest loans. The money comes from New Mexico's $3.5 billion Severance Tax Permanent Fund, financed by royalties from natural gas, oil, coal and timber extraction.
 The program, drafted by Peter J. Dekom, a prominent entertainment industry lawyer in Los Angeles, allows the state to lend as much as $7.5 million to help produce films. It also grants a 15 percent tax rebate on all local production costs, provided the film is made largely in New Mexico. 
 "Our main objective is to become a supportive satellite of Hollywood," Gov. Bill Richardson said in an interview. "We don't want to be greedy with this, but for a state with low per capita income, it's a way for us to attract a clean, environmentally friendly industry that leaves a positive impact."
 Unlike many states, New Mexico has a Constitution that mandates a balanced budget, and it also has a history of reining in public spending. As a result, there was little resistance to legislation allowing the state to invest in film projects. In fact, the state's finances allowed officials to expand the authority and influence of its film commission while other states were cutting back.
 Few states are as aggressive in luring film projects as New Mexico, with its no-interest loans, although several, like Louisiana and Illinois, offer similar tax incentives. 
 In California, the film commission was recently folded into the Department of Business, Transportation and Housing and its budget was cut nearly 60 percent. Still, a department spokesman, Patrick Dorinson, said, "Filmmaking has been a priority for the California economy and will continue to be one." He declined to comment on New Mexico's program.
 According to The Hollywood Reporter, a newspaper that covers the entertainment industry, Colorado eliminated most of its film office budget last year, and the New Jersey film office was nearly shut down. In Massachusetts, the state film office was closed in 2002. Private fund-raisers responded by creating a nonprofit organization, the Massachusetts Film Bureau, to promote the state as a destination for filmmakers.
 "I wish we had something in the way of loans," said Robin Dawson, the bureau's executive director. "New Mexico is going to be the envy of every film commission in the country."
 Elliott Lewitt, producer of "Around the Bend," a road movie about four generations of men from the same family, said the incentives saved the project about $500,000 on a budget of $6 million. The film, starring Michael Caine and Christopher Walken, was shot in 2003 in Los Lunas, N.M., south of Albuquerque, and is scheduled for release in October.
 "This was a picture we wouldn't have been able to do if we couldn't recover some of the costs," Mr. Lewitt said.
 New Mexico's resources have allowed it to attract projects beyond the westerns that have often used the state's rugged landscape as a backdrop. Guillermo Arriaga, the screenwriter for "21 Grams," said the experience opened his eyes to the state.
 "The desert there, the open spaces, they enhanced the feeling of solitude that I was looking for," Mr. Arriaga said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. "Albuquerque, except for its downtown, felt like Mexico to me. It's certainly a place where I would do another film."
 Another recently completed film, "Elvis Has Left the Building," which stars Kim Basinger as a cosmetics saleswoman who accidentally kills two Elvis impersonators, was shot in and near Albuquerque.
 Still, the incentive program has not proceeded without criticism. Jonathan Wacks, an independent filmmaker and chairman of the moving image arts department at the College of Santa Fe, has warned that New Mexican directors and producers risk losing out if the program relies mainly on out-of-state projects.
 "If we want a sustainable film industry in New Mexico, we need to get creative and start funding low-budget films done by New Mexicans," he said.
 There is also the matter of finding enough qualified crew members. The state has started to subsidize training of film technicians, hoping to increase its supply of technicians, Mr. Zuniga of the film office said. 
 Several prominent actors, like Shirley MacLaine, Gene Hackman and Val Kilmer, live in New Mexico, something generally seen as an asset that can attract projects to the state. But for all its allure, New Mexico is not immune to controversy. A furor erupted in October, for instance, after Mr. Kilmer, who lives on a ranch in northeastern New Mexico, gave an interview to Rolling Stone in which he justified carrying a gun in his car by saying, "I live in the homicide capital of the Southwest."
 "Eighty percent of the people in my county are drunk," Mr. Kilmer said.
 At the time Mr. Kilmer made the comments, he was starring in "Blind Horizon," a thriller shot in Las Vegas, N.M., that had received $4.7 million from the state in a no-interest loan. Facing criticism from state legislators, Mr. Kilmer said in a full-page ad in The Santa Fe New Mexican that he was proud to live in New Mexico. Finally, Governor Richardson gave a dinner for Mr. Kilmer and his critics to ease tension.
 "Val Kilmer apologized and showed he's a good citizen of New Mexico," the governor said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among the movies that benefited from state incentives was "Around the Bend." The movie, filmed on location in Los Lunas, N.M., stars Christopher Walken, left, and is to be released in the fall. (Photos by Cary Herz for The New York Times); (Photo by Neil Jacobs/Warner Independent Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); FILM (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TRENDS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%) MOTION PICTURES AND VIDEOS; NEW MEXICO; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: RON HOWARD (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



674 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Showdown Over Control Of Hollinger International
As bankers for Hollinger International pushed ahead with plans to sell its most valuable newspaper assets in Britain, the Barclay brothers prepared to take control of the company, making a showdown between the parties inevitable.
 Early this week, David and Frederick Barclay, through their newspaper company, Press Holdings International, will tender an offer for all of Hollinger Inc., the company that holds Conrad Black's controlling stake in Hollinger International, an executive who has been briefed on their plans said. Page C2. 

New Mexico Courts Film Industry
Blessed with a budget surplus, New Mexico has started one of the nation's most aggressive film incentive programs, resulting in a flurry of projects like the somber "21 Grams" from Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu and "The Missing," a violent tale of abduction, from Ron Howard. Elliott Lewitt, producer of "Around the Bend," a road movie about four generations of men from the same family, said the incentives saved the project about $500,000 on a budget of $6 million. C6.

Gillette Returns to the Super Bowl
The lineup of brands to be promoted Sunday during the CBS broadcast of the Super Bowl is taking on more of a male appeal than has been the case in recent years. Among those to be featured in commercials, costing an estimated record price of $2.3 million for each 30 seconds, will be the Gillette shaving products, making their first Super Sunday appearance in a decade. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C8.

Warner Hires Urban Music Pioneer
The Warner Music Group, which was recently acquired from Time Warner by private investors, has hired the urban music pioneer Lyor Cohen to lead its North American operations, the company confirmed. C7.

Move by Oracle on PeopleSoft
Oracle announced five candidates it plans to nominate to the board of PeopleSoft. Oracle is trying to fill the PeopleSoft board with directors willing to consider its $7.3 billion bid to acquire PeopleSoft, in the event that PeopleSoft continues its refusal to entertain Oracle's offer. Four positions on PeopleSoft's board are up for re-election in late spring. C5.

A Digital Pony Express
A Cambodian village of 800 people is taking part in a development project set up by an American benefactor to connect 13 rural schools to the Internet. The M.I.T. Media Lab is using solar power and mobile messengers carrying WiFi terminals to let villagers send and receive e-mail. The system, developed by a Boston company, First Mile Solutions, uses a receiver box powered by the motorcycle's battery. The driver need only roll slowly past the school to download all the village's outgoing e-mail and deliver incoming e-mail. C4.

Fewer Online Shoppers in Canada
More Canadians than Americans use the Internet, but they do less shopping there. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C5.

Gates Sees an End to Spam
The problem of spam e-mail messages will be gone within two years, Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, promised in a speech at the World Economic Forum. C7.

A Manhattan exhibit tries to make art out of spam. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,568.29 down 32.22Nasdaq composite -- 2,123.87 down 16.5910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.07% up 0.05The euro -- $1.2590 up 0.0214The dollar -- 106.50 yen down 0.34

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (86%); INTERNET & WWW (84%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); BUDGETS (75%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); RURAL SCHOOLS (69%); INTERNET RETAILING (64%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (64%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%); TEXT MESSAGING (60%); SOLAR ENERGY (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (90%); HOLLINGER INC (84%); ORACLE CORP (82%); BOSTON CO INC (61%); WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (54%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (61%); NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (54%)

PERSON: DAVID BARCLAY (88%); RON HOWARD (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CAMBODIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



675 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: A Micromanager (or Craftsman) Seeks To Repair Damage at Gruner & Jahr 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
Few would accuse Axel Ganz, the interim chief executive of Gruner & Jahr USA Publishing, of neglecting the details. On the contrary, Mr. Ganz, the president of the German company's international division, sometimes uses his commuting time from Paris to New York to circle displeasing headlines and inappropriately spaced text in company-owned magazines like Parents and Fitness.
 But Mr. Ganz now sits at the desk of Daniel B. Brewster Jr., whom he fired as chief executive last week, and confronts the kinds of mistakes that cannot be undone with the stroke of a pen. 
 Mr. Brewster, with the support of Mr. Ganz and the board of Gruner & Jahr, a division of the German media conglomerate Bertelsmann, had promised after his hiring in 2000 to double the revenue at the American company in five years in hope of becoming a force in an era of consolidating magazine publishers like Time Inc. and Conde Nast. Instead, Mr. Ganz takes over day-to-day control of a company that is no bigger or more competitive than it was when Mr. Brewster arrived. 
 Revenue has slipped since 2000, and profit is stagnant. Mr. Brewster's grand plans -- from the purchase for $360 million of the new-economy magazine Fast Company to the effort to save the struggling McCall's by turning it into a star vehicle for Rosie O'Donnell -- have been embarrassing failures. And the company has been humiliated by revelations that it inflated circulation figures of some of its magazines and kept advertisers in the dark.
 Some magazine industry executives suggest that a retrenching Bertelsmann -- which has tempered its global ambitions since its chief executive, Thomas Middlehoff, was forced out in 2002 -- will cut its losses and sell Gruner & Jahr USA. But Mr. Ganz insists that Bertelsmann remains steadfast in its commitment to the American market. 
 "I have a responsibility to the board of this company and I am personally committed to many of the people here," said Mr. Ganz, who plans to spend half his time in New York in coming months running the business and shopping for a new chief executive. "I want to put this company back on the right track."
 Mr. Ganz, 66, a multilingual executive and self-described Francophile who grew up on the German-French border, began his career as a general assignment reporter for regional newspapers in southern Germany. He now lives in Paris, just across the Seine from the Eiffel Tower in an apartment with a stunning view. 
 Now several years past 60, the customary retirement age of Bertelsmann executives, Mr. Ganz -- who is described even by his detractors as a skillful fanatic about magazines -- remains interested in running and building them. 
 He can set his own retirement in part because he has been successful in building up the company's successful international divisions in countries like Spain and Russia. 
 And he has another, very influential card to play with his bosses: He built the German company's French division, Prisma Presse, from scratch in 1978 into a highly profitable company with revenue of about 500 million euros ($630 million) on the strength of 16 magazines with a focus on celebrities and women's service.
Prisma Presse "is quite an achievement considering the history of relations between the two countries," said John Vinocur, a former executive editor of The International Herald Tribune, adding, "He pretty much conceived all of the titles, an achievement that is quite remarkable."
 Elizabeth Crow, a former president and editorial director of Gruner & Jahr USA and now the editorial director of Consumers Union, which publishes Consumer Reports, worked for Mr. Ganz for several years after he took up his international oversight duties in 1991. "He is an expert at the mechanics of making magazines," Ms. Crow said. "He has a bunch of rules about making magazines, and all of them work. Axel is very concerned about making sure that the cutlines on photos and headlines draw the reader in." 
 Some editors and art directors, none of whom would allow the use of their names, said Mr. Ganz wielded his expertise in heavy-handed ways, trying to import the cluttered and relatively downscale look of his European magazines while talking constantly of giving the reader "multiple points of entry" into every page. 
 "Even the tiniest image could not run without a caption," a former editor at Gruner & Jahr said. "I don't really think he had any belief in the intelligence of the audience."
 But where others see micromanagement, Mr. Ganz sees craftsmanship.
 "Magazines, in the end, are the sum of a lot of details," he said, slicing the air for emphasis. "Magazine-making is about the marriage of ideas and craftsmanship."
 Nonetheless, Gruner & Jahr's success in the United States has been minimal, even with deals like the acquisition of the women's magazines of The New York Times Company in 1994.
 Joachim Rosler, who worked directly with Mr. Ganz for a number of years and is now chief operating officer of World Publications, praises his editorial talents, but adds that "as he has tried to reproduce the success he had in France here in the U.S., he has had a difficult time of it."
 Mr. Ganz has shown an ability to produce magazines oriented toward women that sell well on newsstands in France and elsewhere. But the American magazine market is driven much more by subscriptions and advertising, and the company was chary of the spending and promotion that success required. 
 Under a previous chief executive, John Heins, a former protege of Mr. Ganz, Gruner & Jahr USA was criticized for high turnover, less than competitive salaries, a reliance on women's magazines and middlebrow ambitions. Mr. Brewster, a former chief executive of American Express Publishing, was brought in to change that corporate culture in 2000. 
 He quickly acquired Fast Company for about $360 million, a price that in retrospect seems wildly inflated. And Mr. Brewster went shopping for expensive executive and journalistic talent, while investing $60 million in 2001 into magazines like Child, Fitness and American Homestyle and Gardening to appeal to upscale readers and advertisers. Mr. Ganz signed off on the most significant decisions.
 Some of the moves have paid off. Child, Family Circle and Parents have performed well in business terms. Others did not. Fast Company carries a third of the advertising pages it did at the height of the technology boom. American Homestyle, rechristened Homestyle, went out of business. 
 But it was Mr. Brewster's attempt to salvage McCall's, a struggling women's service magazine that was one of the so-called Seven Sisters, that more than anything else tarnished his and the company's reputation. He entered into a joint venture with Ms. O'Donnell, a successful daytime talk show host, to turn McCall's into Rosie -- hoping to attain some of the magazine success of other celebrities, like Oprah Winfrey and Martha Stewart. But after millions of dollars in losses and battles between Gruner & Jahr and Ms. O'Donnell over the direction of the magazine led Ms. O'Donnell to leave, the company closed Rosie and sued Ms. O'Donnell for $100 million. Ms. O'Donnell countersued.
 At the trial, the company's credibility suffered serious damage. It became apparent that Gruner & Jahr had reported newsstand sales beyond those the magazine actually had and that senior executives managed the financial details to keep Ms. O'Donnell from invoking a contract clause that would have allowed her to walk away from the joint venture if losses reached a certain level. 
 Mr. Brewster said at the time that the variations were within acceptable limits and quite standard in the industry, a stance that infuriated other publishing companies. 
 Mr. Ganz does not play down the circulation fiasco's effect.
 "We will do everything that we need to do to restore our credibility as quickly as we can," he said, alluding to the twice-yearly figures issued by the Audit Bureau of Circulations. 
 As Mr. Ganz works to repair the damage and expand the company -- its earnings dropped about $10 million last year, to about $70 million on revenue around $400 million -- he must find a new chief executive who will be content with Gruner & Jahr USA's streamlined ambitions. 
 Mr. Brewster had warned that the company needed to become much bigger or risk being crushed, but Mr. Ganz says that view was overheated, the product of a bygone era.
 "Size does not always mean quality," he said. "You can be important and do good business without being huge. The growth philosophy was typical of the hype years, and I think that in the meantime, everybody has become more modest. Growth cannot be an objective unto itself."
 Mr. Ganz hopes that once a new chief executive is in place, Gruner & Jahr USA will be able to begin publishing an American version of Gala, an upscale celebrity-focused weekly that has been successful in France. But what seems entirely new in France will face a clutter of competition in this country, where People, US Weekly and others have staked out significant and lucrative franchises.
 Mr. Ganz is willing to venture one more solution to what has been a vexing question for the German owners of Gruner & Jahr: how to translate its European success into prosperity in the United States. 
 "Don't forget that we have some very good brands here," he said. "We just need to find somebody who knows this business, who is down to earth, and has a vision for this company."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Axel Ganz regards the pursuit of even small details as essential in producing successful magazines. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); MULTILINGUALISM (72%); NEW ECONOMY (66%); RETIREMENT AGE (60%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (60%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; BOOKS AND MAGAZINES 

COMPANY: GRUNER & JAHR USA PUBLISHING (94%); TIME INC (84%); BERTELSMANN AG (84%); GRUNER + JAHR AG & CO KG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GRUNER & JAHR USA PUBLISHING 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (58%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: GANZ, AXEL; BREWSTER, DANIEL B. JR. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



676 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: At Oyster Bar, Seeking an Opening; 
Strike at Famed Restaurant Enters Its Eighth Week

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Wearing a black beret and using her boombox voice, Janine Boivin shouted to the couple approaching: "Please don't eat at the Oyster Bar. Seventy-two families have been on strike for eight weeks."
 It was lunchtime on Friday, and some shellfish lovers walked blithely past and entered the restaurant deep inside Grand Central Terminal. But others stopped to talk with Ms. Boivin, an Oyster Bar waitress, and then headed elsewhere for lunch. 
 "I was thinking this would last maybe two, three days," said Ms. Boivin, whose lunch hours are usually spent carrying cherrystones and chowders to rushed customers. "I never expected it would last eight weeks." 
The strike began on Dec. 5 after the restaurant's owners demanded to cut waiters' wages, to reduce salaries for newly hired dishwashers to $7 an hour from $8 and to eliminate health insurance for part-time workers like Ms. Boivin. 
Management also insisted that new hires begin paying health insurance premiums of about $1,500 a year, while current employees would continue paying nothing. 
"Their offer was terrible," said Ms. Boivin, an immigrant from Uruguay. "It would be going backward."
But Michael Garvey, the restaurant's manager, said the Oyster Bar needed those concessions to offset soaring health care costs, which he said were scheduled to rise by $239,000 over three years. 
Sitting at the cocktail bar under the restaurant's famed vaulted ceilings, Mr. Garvey insisted that the strike was not having much of a toll, even though each day at lunchtime eight strikers picketed outside, forcing customers to face a verbal gantlet. 
Mr. Garvey said the 420-seat restaurant -- opened in 1913 at the same time as Grand Central -- remained profitable. "Things are good at the restaurant," he said. "It's pretty much business as usual."
The labor battle inside Grand Central is small by most measures, but it captures what is happening in many contract negotiations nationwide -- a lot of companies, even profitable ones, are demanding wage cuts, higher health insurance contributions and other concessions. With unemployment high in numerous low-wage service industries, and with many immigrants willing to cross picket lines, employers often feel it is an opportune time to try to push down labor costs.
"This is a place that has great-tasting oysters and a very wealthy, old clientele, and if they can't pay a living wage, then no one in New York can," said Josh Freeman, a history professor at the City University Graduate Center and the author of "Working-Class New York." "This shows that management is pushing to get the most it can, even if they're able to afford to pay decent salaries."
During the strike's first few days, 22 union members crossed the picket line. Amy Jones, a cocktail waitress, was one of those who decided to continue working. She said she did not think management's offer hurt the workers so badly, even though it would have cut waiters' pre-tip wages to $4 an hour from $4.80. Many full-time waiters receive about $40,000 a year in tips.
"I didn't see any reason why anyone would need or want to strike," Ms. Jones said. "Most of us feel loyal to the restaurant."
But the 72 employees who walked on Day 1 out have held fast. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has limited how many strikers -- members of Local 100 of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union -- can picket inside the terminal near the restaurant. 
"They do their best to harass customers and employees going into work," Mr. Garvey said. 
He acknowledged that the Oyster Bar had lost customers during the strike. Noting that the restaurant averaged 1,300 customers a day before the walkout, Mr. Garvey said business was down 20 percent. (The restaurant was able to remain profitable, he said, because its costs were lower; it pays its 58 replacement workers less in wages and benefits than the strikers received.)
The strikers say that business is down far more than 20 percent. One of them, Ken Hack, the restaurant's fish butcher, also works at the Fulton Fish Market, and he said that he watches how much fish is loaded each night onto the truck heading to the Oyster Bar. "The truck is carrying 50 percent of the volume it once did," Mr. Hack said. 
As in any strike, each side has a different story. Mr. Garvey said service was as good as ever. "The food hasn't changed," he said, "and I get comments that it's much friendlier now than it was before the strike." 
But according to Otilia Cizekova, a waitress from Slovakia, "Customers tell us, 'I'm really disappointed. I have to wait so long for service, and the food wasn't as good. I'm not going to go back.' "
Bill Granfield, Local 100's president, said the workers were not suffering undue financial pain because they were getting $200 a week in union strike benefits and would soon begin receiving unemployment benefits as well.
Mr. Garvey said the restaurant could weather a strike for many more months. "The Oyster Bar closed in the 1970's and was brought back to life ," he said. "We had the big fire in 1997, and we had a tough time after the terrorism attacks with the downturn in tourism. Every time we come back stronger."
Many customers dislike the strike's rancor and the strikers' clamor. Brian, a lawyer who ate there on Friday and refused to give his last name, said he saw little reason to honor the picket line. "It's hard to know what the grievances are, and you don't know who is right," he said. 
In words that would hearten the strikers, he said that service was slower than usual, but in words bound to please management, he said the wait to get a seat was as long as usual.
On Friday, for her first time in a decade, Lori Goodman, a writer from the Upper West Side, headed to the Oyster Bar, to celebrate a friend's birthday. But when she encountered Ms. Boivin and the other strikers, she put aside her craving for shellfish. 
"I won't cross a picket line," she said. "I support the union."
Mr. Garvey said that many strikers misunderstood management's stance. The company that owns the Oyster Bar is controlled by the family of Jerome Brody, the famed restaurateur who died three years ago, having run the Four Seasons and Gallagher's Steak House as well as the Oyster Bar.
Mr. Garvey complained that the restaurant's pension costs are higher than those of its unionized competitors. And like many other executives, he bemoaned spiraling health costs.
"We felt this business shouldn't have to absorb all these increases," he said. "It's hard for a business or anybody else just to keep paying."
Mr. Garvey said it made sense to demand concessions to offset higher health costs and to ask new hires to pay 25 percent of the $5,600 in annual health insurance costs per worker.
But Mr. Granfield, the Local 100 president, said the union could not accept that, noting that in negotiating with other restaurants, it had beaten back management demands for workers to begin paying health premiums.
"This is economically unacceptable to each worker, and it's institutionally unacceptable to the union," he said. "The problem here is this is a very profitable restaurant, and they want to maximize what they can take out of it. They're just going too far, too fast."
A major stumbling block is Mr. Garvey's insistence that he will not take the strikers back even if they settle. He said they could return only as replacement workers leave and openings develop. 
"I warned them before they struck that we'd hire permanent replacements," he said.
Last week, however, Mr. Garvey tried to persuade Luis Iglesias, known as the city's champion oyster shucker -- he can shuck 15 oysters a minute -- to return to work.
"Garvey asked me to come back and I said, 'No thank you,"' said Mr. Iglesias, a 23-year-old from Mexico, who said he was having a hard time feeding his wife and daughter during the strike. "I can't go back until the rest of my co-workers go back."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two striking workers, Ricardo Montalban, right, and Alvaro Morales, watched last week as a patron entered the Oyster Bar inside Grand Central Terminal. (Photo by Lucian Read/WPN for The New York Times); Michael Garvey, left, the manager of the Oyster Bar, said the restaurant was still making a profit. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Restaurant employees on strike against the Oyster Bar picketed last week outside Grand Central Terminal. (Photo by Lucian Read/WPN for The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LIVING WAGE (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); HISTORY (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Restaurants; Labor; Strikes; Wages and Salaries; Health Insurance and Managed Care

ORGANIZATION: Oyster Bar (NYC)

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



677 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Budget Is Little Help, City Council Speaker Says 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The budget proposed last week by Gov. George E. Pataki would raise taxes on New York City residents by $356 million, City Council Speaker Gifford Miller said yesterday.
 Mr. Miller said in an interview that he planned to go to Albany today to testify before the Legislature that the governor's proposal is long on taxes, short on aid, and insufficient to comply with a court order requiring more spending on education. 
 "Of the $400 million that the city asked for in help, $356 million is in the form of new taxes to city residents," Mr. Miller said. "It doesn't feel much like aid to me."
The governor proposed extending the state and local sales tax on purchases of clothing and shoes under $110, but the city wanted the tax to phase out in June. Extending that tax would cost people who buy goods in the city an estimated $160 million next year in local sales tax and an equal amount in state sales tax, or a total cost of about $320 million.
"The clothing tax is enormously burdensome on working families and destructive to our economy," Mr. Miller said
In addition, a City Council analysis identified $36 million in taxes and fees in the governor's proposal that would fall on city taxpayers, including a surcharge on auto insurance and a tax on some security services. 
It is something of a switch from last year, when the Council was asking for tax increases to help the city balance its budget and Mr. Pataki was complaining about what he called "job-killing taxes." 
Aides to Mr. Pataki said that his budget proposal would net the city $418 million -- more than the $400 million in state assistance that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg called for in his own budget proposal earlier this month. 
Council officials, however, questioned the governor's statement that his budget would increase education aid to the city by $56 million this year over last year. 
Part of that aid, they noted, is a $100 million matching grant that requires the city to spend its own money to qualify for the state money. "If the city doesn't have the money, or doesn't like the program it is for, it won't get the grant and that will leave us $44 million in the hole," a council official said.
Mayor Bloomberg, who has been quiet so far on the governor's proposal, also plans to testify in Albany today. In his State of the City address earlier this month, he called for phasing out the sales tax on clothing on time. 
Mr. Bloomberg, who has been criticized for not being feisty enough when he argues for the city's needs, used that speech to indicate a new willingness to fight. "As long as I am mayor," he said, "I will never back away from fighting any opponent -- or confronting any obstacle -- that would prevent our people from achieving all of their dreams in our New York."
Mr. Miller, a Democrat who rarely misses an opportunity to attack Mr. Pataki, a Republican, said that he planned to tell the Legislature that in regard to the lawsuit that produced the court decision that New York City's schools do not receive enough money, the governor's response had been one of "denial, duplicity and delay."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaker Gifford Miller plans to ask the Legislature for more aid. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (95%); CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SALES TAX (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); TAX LAW (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); FAMILY (66%); MATCHING GIFTS (66%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (50%) Taxation; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki; Gifford (Speaker) Miller; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004 



678 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Poles Protest U.S. Visa Rules: We Can't Go There From Here 

BYLINE:  By JOHN DARNTON

DATELINE: WARSAW, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
"It's tragic," said Wojciech Mazur, pacing nervously outside the American Embassy and peering through a fence at its blank facade. Every few seconds a side door opened to disgorge another Pole, another applicant for an American visa. The person's walk usually indicated whether one had been granted.
 Malgorzata, the 19-year-old daughter of Mr. Mazur and his wife, Grazyna, wanted to visit her godmother in New York. So father and mother had risen at 3 a.m. and had driven 210 miles through a snowstorm to provide moral support during her all-important interview. 
 Nerve-racking perhaps, but tragic?
Mr. Mazur shrugged, and out poured a familiar litany of complaints: that the $100 fee is not refunded in the case of refusal, that Poles have to undergo the indignity of being fingerprinted on arrival in the United States. Why, he asked, do Poles need visas at all, when they are about to join the European Union?
Something about the whole procedure was demeaning, the couple suggested, with an air of Chekhovian world-weariness. 
Complaints about visa requirements have become a prime irritant in Polish-American relations. The matter is on the agenda Tuesday, when President Aleksander Kwasniewski is to meet President Bush at the White House.
"It's a powerful issue," said Leszek Miller, the prime minister. "The faster the U.S. authorities do away with the visa requirement, the better."
What has given the complaint an edge is that Poland is a major supporter of the American occupation of Iraq and has sent 2,400 troops there.
"The situation is unjust because next to England, we're America's best ally in Europe," said Rafal Zielinski, a 28-year-old representative for a construction company.
The American answer to all this is that Poles have a history of traveling to the United States on three-month tourist visas and then staying to work illegally. The system is in place to try to weed out potential offenders.
Estimates of the number of Poles who violate their visas this way run as high as 30 percent. The unemployment rate here is about 18 percent, and the universities are bulging with 1.8 million students, four and a half times the number 14 years ago.
Christopher Hill, the American ambassador, has been blanketing the media to drive home the American view. "It's one of the worst moments, when I go to the embassy and see the line of people waiting for visas," he told the daily Rzeczpospolita. "But let's remember that our law explicitly states that people visiting the United States cannot work there."
Michael Kirby, the consul general, pointed out that as an immigrant-receiving nation, the United States, unlike European countries, has promulgated laws "that start with the presumption that everyone wants to become one of us." 
Poles view unfettered travel as a sacred right. During five decades of Communist rule, visits to the West were largely prohibited.
With Poland about to join the European Union, Poles can travel freely throughout Western Europe, but only a few member countries grant them work permits.
During the past five years, American consular officials have approved about 500,000 visas for Poles, Ambassador Hill said. Refusal figures are not given out, but a quick look at bins of accepted and rejected applications suggested that about one in 10 is turned down.
The procedure for a visa, however, has been streamlined, and the interviews are quick and to the point.
But for those who are refused, the experience acquires shades of humiliation.
"They treat you like animals," complained Arkadiusz Dmochowski, a 23-year-old student who was waiting outside for his fiancee to complete her interview. "I tried twice and I didn't get it either time. They told me I had no strong links to Poland. But my family is here."
Malgorzata, the Mazurs' daughter, emerged from the embassy, a big smile on her face. "I can collect my visa in two hours," she said. "It wasn't hard. He asked me why I wanted to go and if I would come back, and I told him I have to come back to graduate. That seemed to satisfy him." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); POLAND (79%); ENGLAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



679 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Budget Office Forecasts Record Deficit in '04 and Sketches a Pessimistic Future 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
The Congressional Budget Office predicted on Monday that the federal budget deficit would hit a record $477 billion this year and that accumulated deficits over the next decade would total $1.9 trillion.
 The nonpartisan budget office's outlook for the long term is significantly more pessimistic than it was just one year ago. It casts new doubt on the ability of President Bush to fulfill his promise of cutting the deficit in half over the next five years, particularly if he persuades Congress to make his tax cuts permanent, which he has vowed to do. 
 If Congress extends all tax breaks that are scheduled to expire, the agency predicted, the total cost would add up to more than $2 trillion in additional borrowing over the next decade. 
And if Congress moves to stop an explosive rise in what is known as the alternative minimum tax, a provision that is expected to raise taxes on millions of families as their incomes rise, the Treasury would lose an additional $469 billion over 10 years.
Extending the tax cuts would increase the accumulated deficit more than $1.2 trillion above the agency's basic forecast. They are now scheduled to expire at various points between now and 2011.
Just a year ago, before the war in Iraq and before Congress passed a sweeping expansion of Medicare, Congressional forecasters predicted that the deficit could melt away by 2007 and that the government could rack up $1.3 trillion in accumulated surpluses within 10 years.
Democrats immediately pounced on the new report, saying it provided more evidence of Mr. Bush's fiscal recklessness. 
"It is becoming clear that the Bush administration has no plan to eliminate these deficits," said Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee. "In the face of mounting deficits, the president proposes another round of tax cuts reducing revenues by more than $1 trillion and driving the budget further into the red."
Administration officials contend that today's deficits are "manageable," given the need for spending on domestic security and the war in Iraq as well as the need to help the economy rebound from the recession of 2001.
The federal deficit reached $374 billion in 2003, a record in dollar terms though not as a percentage of the total economy. The new forecast calls for the deficit to reach $477 billion in 2004, which is essentially what the White House predicted last summer. 
But the new budget estimate painted a much gloomier picture for the long-term outlook, even though Congressional analysts are expecting rapid economic growth to lead to big increases in tax revenue for the next several years. 
The agency predicts that the economy will grow at the extremely fast rate of 4.8 percent this year and 4.2 percent next year, which is slightly more optimistic than the consensus view among private economists.
The agency also expects tax revenues to surge even faster than the economy, after having fallen for three years in a row.
But the agency's long-term outlook is more subdued. The agency predicts that economic growth will slow to just 2.5 percent a year beginning in 2010. The expected slowdown reflects slower growth in the size of the labor force, but also to some extent the economic drag created by higher deficits.
Douglas Holtz-Eakin, director of the Congressional Budget Office and a former economist in the Bush White House, said on Thursday that making Mr. Bush's tax cuts permanent would most likely have a "modestly negative" impact on long-term economic growth.
Mr. Holtz-Eakin said the initial impact of Mr. Bush's tax cuts was positive, because the cuts lowered marginal tax rates and gave people more incentive to work and produce.
But to the extent the tax cuts lead to higher deficits and greater government borrowing, he warned, they could have a "cumulative corrosive effect on capital accumulation, on national saving and on productivity."
Economists prefer to look at budget deficits in relation to the size of the overall economy, rather than to the absolute dollar amounts.
If this year's deficit turns out as both Congressional and White House budget analysts have been predicting, it would equal about 4.5 percent of the nation's gross domestic product. That is high, but well short of the record set under President Ronald Reagan in 1983, when the deficit was equal to 6 percent of the economy.
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, in a speech delivered by satellite to a business conference in London, said today's deficits were "not historically out of range" and said the deficit would be equal to less than 2 percent of gross domestic product by 2009.
To be sure, the Congressional report includes a few assumptions about spending that are unrealistically high. To comply with its own legal requirements, the agency assumed that the government would repeat last year's $87 billion in extra spending for Iraq and Afghanistan.
Most analysts assume that the costs of occupying those countries will decline in the next few years, though they are unlikely to disappear.
But if the Congressional Budget Office assumed an unrealistically high level of spending on Iraq, it may have been too optimistic about the willingness of either Mr. Bush or Congress to restrain the overall growth in spending.
The new report assumes that discretionary spending, which includes money for everything from military programs to education and environmental programs, will climb only at the rate of inflation -- about 2.5 percent a year.
But White House officials have said they will propose to increase discretionary spending by 4 percent in 2005 and defense spending by 7 percent. Those costs will not include additional money for occupying or rebuilding Iraq, which the administration has thus far sought through supplementary budget requests to Congress.
Republicans took heart that the new report confirmed a strong rebound in the economy, which they said proved the value of Mr. Bush's tax cuts.
"I am pleased that our economic outlook has improved and the unemployment rate is projected to continue to fall," said Representative Jim Nussle, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the House Budget Committee. But Mr. Nussle also hinted at frustration about the administration's refusal to include cost estimates for Iraq in the budget plan for 2005 that is to be unveiled next Monday.
"At this point, the immediate, necessary spending we've had to do as a result of 'emergency' circumstances is now largely known," Mr. Nussle said, "and can be worked into our regular budget planning."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Larger Deficit Predicted"The cumulative federal deficit is expected to become a modest surplus by 2014 if the current tax cuts are allowed to expire as scheduled by 2011. Graph tracks projected deficit if tax cuts expire, and if tax cuts become permanent and with reforms to alternative minimum tax from 2004 through 2014. (Source by Congressional Budget Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGETS (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); IRAQ WAR (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%)

PERSON: JOHN SPRATT (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



680 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: France Backs the Merger Of Two Drug Companies 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
The talk at the World Economic Forum was of globalization and an enlarged European economic union. But nationalism may turn out to be the most important factor in determining the outcome of the largest corporate deal discussed in the halls of the forum.
 Aventis, the large French pharmaceutical company, prepared last week to defend itself against reported plans by a smaller French drug company, Sanofi-Synthelabo, to make a bid for it. But days before Monday, when Sanofi formally made its offer, the French finance minister backed it publicly. 
 "The movements that are currently envisioned aren't wrong movements," the minister, Francis Mer, told Bloomberg News after making similar comments to a French radio station. "It's important for our corporations in France and in Europe to reorganize themselves in such a way that they can be as competitive as necessary in their market, which is the world market."
 Mr. Mer referred to Europe, but the deal would combine two companies based in France, creating the world's third-largest pharmaceutical company.
 Having the government endorse a deal before an offer is made and after news reports indicated that Aventis was preparing to resist, as it did Monday, must not have gone down well in Strasbourg, where Aventis is based. But it appears that France wants to have a giant French drug company rather than risk having either company swallowed by a larger competitor from elsewhere in Europe, or even from the United States.
 Such blatant government involvement in a takeover deal seemed less surprising in Europe than it would in the United States. "What would you expect of France?" responded Daniel Vasella, chief executive of the Swiss pharmaceutical company, Novartis, when asked about Mr. Mer's statements. "They support the French company." 
 Mr. Vasella added that he saw good reasons for more mergers in the industry, which faces pressures on profit margins from rising costs and pressures to hold down prices. "It's not a surprise that consolidation is picking up again," he said. "It has been the history of maturing industries." He declined to say whether Novartis might be interested in a deal with Aventis if it sought an alternative partner.
 Aventis and Sanofi have followed somewhat similar paths in recent years. The companies were created by mergers announced a day apart in late 1998, and both their stocks have outperformed competitors in Europe and the United States since then. But each is down from its high.
 Sanofi, based in Paris, is much smaller in terms of sales, but it was better loved by investors and had a slightly larger market value last week, before the first reports of its takeover plan. Since then, Sanofi shares have fallen while Aventis shares have climbed.
 Aventis was formed by the merger of Rhone-Poulenc, a French company, with Hoechst, a German company. It has offices in both countries, but its headquarters are in France. Plans for that merger were announced on Dec. 1, 1998, and investors reacted negatively, sending down shares of Rhone-Poulenc, the acquirer.
A day later, Sanofi and Synthelabo announced plans to join, and investors sent down shares of Sanofi, the acquirer.
 In each case, the initial market verdict was later reversed. Since those deals were announced, both stocks have gained substantially, although Sanofi has been the better performer, and both have outperformed indexes of pharmaceutical stocks. But neither stock is anywhere near its high. Aventis peaked in late 2000 at 95.4 euros ($119) a share. It closed Monday at 59.25 euros, having risen 10.1 percent since Wednesday. Sanofi's peak came in late 2001, at 86.50 euros a share. After losing 9.2 percent since Wednesday, it closed Monday at 54.5 euros.
 In the five years since their last big combinations, both companies have shown that shareholders can do well after a merger.
 But the endorsement by a French minister of a takeover proposal that had not even been announced and that one French company appeared to want to resist serves as a reminder that in many ways there is not yet a real European financial market.
 For Aventis, that is a warning that it may not face a level playing field on which the company and its shareholders could search the world for a buyer willing to give them a better deal than Sanofi. France wants a national champion in the pharmaceutical business, and it may get one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (95%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); MERGERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%) FRANCE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (94%); NOVARTIS AG (85%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); RHONE-POULENC SA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%) AVENTIS; SANOFI-SYNTHELABO 

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (94%); SANF (BIT) (94%); SAN (PAR) (94%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (94%); NVS (NYSE) (85%); NOVN (SWX) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%) SIC2833 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (78%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



681 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Trade Surplus Grows 

BYLINE:  By Ken Belson (NYT)

 BODY:
 Japan's merchandise trade surplus grew 41 percent in December, to 1.1 trillion yen ($10.6 billion), as strong exports to China and elsewhere offset the effect of the yen's appreciation. 
The sixth consecutive monthly expansion in the surplus came partly as a result of an 8.5 percent jump in exports, including a 32 percent rise in shipments to China. At the same time, Japan's surplus with the United States fell for the 12th consecutive month as Japanese automakers and other producers build more of their goods in North America. Exports from Japan to the United States fell 7.8 percent. Ken Belson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); JAPANESE YEN (88%); RETAILERS (88%); TRENDS (86%); SHIPMENTS (85%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (83%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); AUTOMAKERS (52%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JAPAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



682 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Overtakes Ford as World's No. 2 Automaker 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
Toyota knocked the Ford Motor Company from its longtime position as the world's second-largest automaker last year, according to Toyota's final sales results, which were released on Monday. Now all that stands between Toyota and first place is General Motors, setting up a challenge to America's dominance over the global auto industry that has been years in the making. 
 Executives at Toyota have repeatedly protested that selling more vehicles than Ford or G.M. is not their goal, in and of itself. 
 "The company does not assign a whole lot of importance to this," said Mike Michaels, a spokesman for Toyota's North American affiliate. "No parties, no Champagne corks." 
But Toyota also would not mind selling more vehicles. In fact, the company has said its goal is to have a global market share of 15 percent by the end of the decade, a level that G.M. maintained in 2002 and more than any single automaker held last year. 
"One of the things that could shape the industry is a biaxial competition, where you see Toyota and General Motors really going head to head in the marketplace big time," said David Cole, president of the Center for Automotive Research, a consulting group in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
"The question then is, what does the fallout of that create? Once you get two big guys really going at it, what happens in the space around them?"
Of late, G.M. has led a price war in Detroit because it appears better able than Ford or Chrysler to maintain profits while offering steep discounts. Toyota, by contrast, has been far more profitable despite lower incentives.
Earlier this month, at the North American International Auto Show here, the two companies appeared to be talking the loudest about entering each other's traditional areas of strength. Toyota introduced a big new prototype pickup truck that is comparable to the largest offerings of Detroit and also the new Nissan Titan pickup. 
And G.M., which in the past has highlighted its sport utility vehicles, was showing off a new manufacturing system to efficiently build small cars, an area of strength for Asian manufacturers. 
"Toyota has learned the mastery of using economies of scale well," said Mr. Cole, adding that G.M. -- which makes no secret of emulating Toyota's production system -- was catching up the fastest among the Big Three traditional domestic automakers. 
"Part of it is having a world portfolio of all the stuff you've got and putting those together so you use high-volume parts in low-volume vehicles," he said. 
To financial analysts, the number that really matters is not sales volume, but profit, because profitability drives growth. And on that score, Toyota is well ahead of G.M. and Ford. In fact, in earnings reports last week, neither G.M. nor Ford reported a net profit from their automotive operations. Both companies make their money by acting like banks, in large part by lending money to car buyers. 
William Clay Ford Jr., the chairman of Ford, who took over more than two years ago as chief executive, said he was focused on returning a company that lost $5.5 billion in 2001 to financial health. Last week, the company reported its first annual profit since 2000, though a slim one. 
"Size isn't necessarily an indication of success," said Mr. Ford, according to a transcript of remarks made at a press briefing last month. "If we attend to the quality, the customer satisfaction and the product excellence, then I think size just starts to take care of itself."
Toyota has outmaneuvered G.M. and Ford over the last couple decades for a variety of reasons. Pension and health care costs have sapped the domestic manufacturers, and a weak yen has helped Japanese companies. Then there is Toyota's manufacturing system, which is the envy of the industry. Linked to its manufacturing efficiencies is the high quality of its vehicles and its reputation. 
Putting it simply, "Toyota has done a better job than the rest of the industry of putting product on the road in all regions of the world that people want to buy," said Stephen Girsky, an auto analyst at Morgan Stanley. 
By the numbers, last year, G.M., which includes brands like Chevrolet, Pontiac, Cadillac and Saab, sold 8.6 billion cars and trucks worldwide, down from 8.63 billion in 2002, and its market share fell to 14.7 percent from 15 percent. 
Toyota, which includes Lexus in the United States, sold 6.78 million vehicles, up from 6.17 million in 2002. Ford sold 6.72 million vehicles, down from 6.97 million in 2002. 
Of note, Toyota's numbers include Daihatsu and Hino, two subsidiaries more than half owned by Toyota. Ford's numbers do not include Mazda, which it effectively controls, though it owns about a third of the company. If Mazda were added in, Ford would still be on top. 
This does not, it should be said, mean the end of the Big Three domestic automakers: G.M., Ford and the Chrysler Group division of DaimlerChrysler. They still exist as the three largest automakers in the United States. But another milestone remains, and is far closer, because Toyota is closing fast on Chrysler in the United States.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 28, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about Toyota's surpassing of Ford Motor to become the world's second-largest automaker, behind General Motors, misstated G.M.'s global vehicle sales. For 2003 they were 8.6 million, not billion. That compared with 8.63 million in 2002, not billion.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Toyota, which reported an increase in sales last year, is seeking to grab a global market share of 15 percent by the end of the decade. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (78%); TRENDS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); MARKET SHARE (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); PRICE CUTTING (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (TOYOY) 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



683 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
American Express Reports 12% Rise in 2003 Earnings
American Express said that its earnings rose 12 percent in the fourth quarter and the full year, driven by greater spending and borrowing on its credit and charge cards as well as by more investment activity.
 In 2003, American Express earned $2.99 billion, or $2.30 a diluted share. The fourth quarter contributed $763 million to those earnings, translating into 60 cents a share. Analysts polled by Thomson First Call had predicted 59 cents a share for the quarter. Page C11. 

Dow Finishes Up Over 130 Points
Encouraging words from the chairman of the Federal Reserve sent stocks sharply higher. The Dow gained 134.22 points, or 1.3 percent, to 10,702.51. It was the index's highest finish since June 21, 2001, when it closed at 10,715.43. The Nasdaq composite index closed up 29.96 points, or 1.4 percent, at 2,153.83. The Nasdaq last closed higher on June 29, 2001, at 2,160.54. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 13.82 points, or 1.2 percent, at 1,155.37. It was the S.&P. 500's highest close since March 19, 2002, when it finished at 1,170.29. C11.

The National Association of Realtors reported that existing-home sales totaled 6.1 million last year, passing the previous record of 5.57 million set in 2002. C2.

Jury in Stewart Case Selected
The outlines of the answer to who will be seated on a jury of Martha Stewart's peers became clear when a jury of eight women and four men was seated in Federal District Court in Manhattan, setting the stage for opening arguments in the case to begin this morning. A1.

WorldCom Could Face Back Taxes
WorldCom could be sued for hundreds of millions of dollars in back taxes by the states in which it has operated since the late 1990's, according to the final report filed by the court-appointed examiner in its bankruptcy proceedings. If WorldCom is forced to make payments to the states, it has a strong case for seeking compensation from KPMG, its tax consultant in 1997 and 1998, according to the report. C5.

Fund Company May Reduce Fees
Massachusetts Financial Services may agree to cut fees on its funds by more than $100 million as part of a settlement with regulators over improper trading in its mutual funds, according to people close to the talks. C2.

Auditors Revise Parmalat Debt
PricewaterhouseCoopers, the new auditor of Parmalat, found that the company's net debt minus liquid assets was 14.3 billion euros, or $18 billion, at the end of September, far more than the 1.8 billion euros reported earlier. World Business, Section W.

Record 2004 Deficit Is Expected
The Congressional Budget Office predicted that the federal budget deficit would hit a record of $477 billion this year and accumulated deficits will total $1.9 trillion. A21.

Productivity as Growth Engine
John T. Chambers, left, the chief executive of Cisco Systems, was a near-ubiquitous presence at this year's World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. While Cisco no longer grows 50 percent a year, as it did in the supercharged 1990's, Mr. Chambers is sure he has found a new elixir for growth -- productivity. "The next big thing in technology is going to change dramatically our standard of living," Mr. Chambers said. C4.

Europe Nears Microsoft Ruling
Antitrust officials at the European Commission have drafted a final ruling in their six-year case against Microsoft, the commission said. "We are concluding the case," Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the competition panel, said. World Business, Section W.

Travelers Love and Hate Cellphones
Many business travelers say they have developed a love-hate relationship with their cellphones. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,702.51 up 134.22Nasdaq composite -- 2,153.83 up 29.9610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.13% up 0.06The euro -- $1.2467 down 0.0123The dollar -- 106.31 yen down 0.19 Graph tracks share prices of American Express for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (86%); ACCOUNTING (84%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); TAX CONSULTING (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (64%); NATIONAL DEBT (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (92%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (54%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); PARMALAT SPA (51%); MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL SERVICES CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%); PLT (BIT) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (51%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (51%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



684 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
AK STEEL AND UNION RESOLVE ISSUES FROM LOCKOUT

BYLINE:  AP

 BODY:
 The AK Steel Corporation and the United Steelworkers of America said yesterday that they had completed a contract that resolves all issues remaining from a 39-month lockout at AK Steel's Mansfield Works. A settlement involving each side's dropping civil litigation will be submitted to the National Labor Relations Board, along with a request that charges they filed with the board against each other be dismissed, the two sides said. 
About 600 employees were locked out of the Mansfield Works on Sept. 1, 1999, by the plant's former owner, Armco Inc. AK Steel, based in Middletown, Ohio, acquired Armco and continued to operate the plant with salaried personnel and about 250 replacement workers. The lockout ended in December 2002, and the company has completed the recall of the 280 eligible union members needed to operate the plant. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOCKOUTS (91%); STRIKES (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); LITIGATION (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%) STEEL AND IRON; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: AK STEEL CORP (93%); AK STEEL HOLDING CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (84%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (58%) AK STEEL CORP 

TICKER: AKS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (90%) SIC3312 STEEL WORKS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



685 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: France Makes Headway in Push To Permit Arms Sales to China 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
France pushed the European Union on Monday to lift a 14-year ban on weapons sales to China and succeeded in putting the issue on the organization's agenda for the spring.
 "The hope is that it will happen in April," said a French diplomatic official after a meeting of European Union foreign ministers in Brussels. He noted, however, that several influential European countries favor maintaining the ban. 
 The embargo was imposed in response to the Chinese military's killing of pro-democracy demonstrators near Tiananmen Square in 1989. The United States imposed a similar embargo. But France and Germany have both argued that China has made sufficient strides since then in reforming its government and economy to warrant the resumption of weapons sales. 
"When you look at the countries subject to similar E.U. sanctions, the question is whether China should be in the same company," the French official said. Besides China, the European Union maintains weapons embargoes against Myanmar, Sudan and Zimbabwe.
But France's effort, coming as the country received the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, with a lavish ceremony, was derided by some officials, who argue that China's human rights abuses remain too glaring to overlook. "A desire to curry favor with the Chinese president during his state visit to France is no excuse for rethinking a long-standing European policy rooted in principle," Graham Watson, head of the Liberal Democrats in the European Parliament, said in a statement.
In fact, France stands to benefit handsomely if it succeeds in ending the arms embargo. China, the world's fastest-growing major economy, has one of the largest defense budgets in the world and is spending heavily to modernize its armed forces.
Because of the Western arms embargoes, the country has been largely restricted to buying Russian military hardware in recent years. But Beijing has a long list of items it would like to buy from Europe, particularly French Mirage fighter jets and German stealth submarines.
The European Union foreign ministers agreed Monday to reconsider the ban and referred the issue to a panel of experts. But there was no indication that there would be substantive progress before the next summit meeting at the end of March as France would like.
The Netherlands, for one, has a standing parliamentary resolution that keeps the ban in place until there is clear evidence that human rights in China have improved.
Even Germany, which in December joined France in calling in principle for an end to the embargo, indicated Monday that the time was not yet ripe. "The German government does not feel ready now to lift the ban," the Reuters news agency quoted Germany's foreign minister, Joschka Fischer, as saying.
There is some concern that lifting the embargo now would add a destabilizing note to Beijing's relations with Taiwan, already strained by a plan put forth by Taiwan's president, Chen Shui-bian, to hold a national referendum in March on whether to demand that China remove missiles facing the island and renounce the use of force.
China maintains that Taiwan is a province under its sovereignty and that the island's political separation from the mainland is a historical anomaly left over from the country's 1949 civil war. Beijing demands fealty to that position by all countries with which it maintains relations. President Jacques Chirac dutifully repeated his country's commitment within hours of Mr. Hu's arrival in Paris on Monday.
"France is attached to the principle of there being one China," Mr. Chirac said when Mr. Hu raised the issue at the start of a four-day state visit, according to the French president's spokeswoman.
France has pulled out the stops for Mr. Hu's visit, lighting the Eiffel Tower red -- China's national color. France is the only European country Mr. Hu is visiting on his four-nation tour, which will continue in Africa. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); ARMS TRADE (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ARMS EMBARGOES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); FRANCE (98%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); BELGIUM (92%); TAIWAN (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MYANMAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



686 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: The Happy Populist 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BROOKS; E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

DATELINE: NASHUA, N.H. 

 BODY:
A couple of weeks ago, one of John Edwards's aides showed me, in the manner of one unveiling the Dead Sea Scrolls, the original draft of The January Speech. Edwards had spent much of the fall showing that he was more than a slick trial lawyer, and the new January speech was to differentiate himself from the other candidates.
 Edwards collected his thoughts over a few weeks and must have written them down quickly. There were about 25 words scrawled illegibly over two sheets of spiral notebook paper. On the page it's a mess, but coming out of his mouth it's a thing of beauty. In a year in which all the candidates are saying pretty much the same thing, one eloquent speech has propelled Edwards from the ranks of the hopeless to the ranks of the plausible. 
 The speech is built around the theme that has dominated the Democratic campaign this year: that we are a nation divided. You may have looked at the last several election results and concluded that we are a nation split roughly in half. But according to Edwards and the other Democratic candidates, we are actually a nation divided between the top 2 percent, the rich, powerful insiders -- "those who never haveto worry about a thing," as Edwards puts it -- and the 98 percent, us ordinary folks.
This particular version of the Two Americas theme is sociologically, politically, economically and demographically false, but it is rhetorically quite effective. It means that all these problems that seem intractable are actually solvable if we just take power away from that selfish sliver. Government will begin to work for the people again; all students will have access to first-rate education; regular folks will have a health care system that works for them. It's all imminent!
John Edwards is one of the happiest populists in U.S. history. He doesn't rage against the 2 percent who have seized all this power. He sees politics through the prism of his own personal triumph, his rise from being the son of a millworker to becoming a lawyer and presidential candidate.
The emotional climax of his speech comes when he describes how he used to represent "people like you" against teams of highly paid, distinguished corporate lawyers. "And you know what happened? I beat them, and I beat them, and I beat them again!" The crowds go crazy, but they are not only applauding; they are applauding and smiling at the same time, a result that was not generated by all the other candidates who have used the Two Americas theme over the years.
John Kerry's speech is a list of programs; it responds to voters' discrete desires. But Edwards's speech has an overarching vision and the coherence of a fine short story. It starts with the Two Americas and has a binary structure throughout: two economies, two governments, two foreign policy visions. Edwards moves from one subject to the next better than any other candidate I've seen, without losing a hint of momentum. When he is interrupted by applause, he doesn't stop to acknowledge it. He continues on with three or four exhortatory sentences to build the applause, and raise the pitch. He is programmatic, but only in one area, education, to show he can do policy. He doesn't burden audiences with too many proposals.
The crucial question for Edwards is whether he can move from charisma to character. Bryan Garsten, a Williams College political theorist whom I met at an Edwards speech, points out that Aristotle believed that the greatest speakers don't just persuade audiences to accept an argument -- they get people to trust their judgment. They use emotion and logic to establish their character, which leaves a deeper impression than the momentary thrill of a standing ovation.
For all its excellence, this speech does not do that. And as someone who has seen Edwards deliver it six times in the past eight days, I suspect that it alone will not be enough to get voters to prefer Edwards to the more experienced Kerry.
Edwards's answers are just too facile. There is grace in his performance but no sense of struggle. Yet Edwards's rise could not have been achieved without moments of anger, resentment and humiliation. If in The February Speech he can communicate that struggle, that sense of difficulty, which is shared by millions, then he will be a less polished campaigner, but a most persuasive one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LAWYERS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); SOCIOLOGY (64%); HISTORY (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHUA, NH, USA (68%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



687 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: POWELL DISPLAYS TOUGH U.S. STANCE TOWARD RUSSIANS 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell criticized curbs on free elections and the news media, as well as the Russian military campaign in Chechnya, in meetings with the Russian president on Monday and in an essay in a Russian newspaper. His words were the toughest public stance to date by a Bush administration official. 
 "Certain developments in Russian politics and foreign policy in recent months have given us pause," Mr. Powell said in his essay, published Monday in the newspaper Izvestia. Mr. Powell said he raised those concerns in seven hours of meetings with the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, and other officials at the Kremlin. 
 Administration officials said Mr. Powell's concerns included the arrest of a businessman and political rival of Mr. Putin, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, and the seizure of his assets. Mr. Powell also commented on parliamentary elections in which several parties complained about a lack of access to the news media.
The Bush administration has been reluctant to criticize Russia publicly, saying Russian officials' sensitivity to such remarks could make them less likely to cooperate on a variety of issues, from nuclear proliferation to Iraq's reconstruction. 
But growing concern about Russian actions -- along with rising criticism in Congress and among Democratic presidential candidates about American passivity -- have contributed to an adjustment in the administration's stance.
Publishing Mr. Powell's article markedly increases the pressure, but it also avoids putting Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin directly at loggerheads. One senior official said earlier this month that the strategy was to "avoid making this a leader-to-leader confrontation," using surrogates to send the messages.
Indeed, Mr. Powell declined to repeat his criticisms during a news conference with the Russian foreign minister after the meetings. The state-controlled television coverage of the meetings emphasized the cooperation between the United States and Russia, and there appeared to be little public concern here.
In the Izvestia essay, Mr. Powell said Russia had yet to achieve an "essential balance" between the executive and other branches of government. "Political power is not yet fully tethered to law," Mr. Powell asserted in the essay. "Key aspects of civil society -- free media and political party development, for example -- have not yet sustained an independent presence." 
The secretary also criticized "certain aspects" of the war against Chechen rebels and asserted that neighboring countries were entitled to "their rights to peaceful and respectful relations across their borders."
He mentioned no names of any countries, but his comments echoed complaints that Mr. Powell had heard in Georgia on Sunday about the Russian refusal to withdraw troops stationed there since the days of the Soviet Union.
Mr. Powell told reporters at the news conference with Igor S. Ivanov, the foreign minister, that he was not trying "to interfere in the internal dynamics of Russian political life," and that "it was one friend speaking to another."
Asked whether he regarded Mr. Powell's criticisms as interference, Mr. Ivanov was circumspect, saying dismissively that the secretary of state got "a good opportunity to get a full and clear understanding of Russia's position on many issues," and that "many doubts that might have risen with respect to some of these issues will be dispersed as a result."
On the issue of Georgia, however, the foreign minister was a bit more forthcoming, asserting that as soon as that nation's new president, Mikhail Saakashvili, forms his new government, Russia will work with him to find "solutions" on the problem of Russian troop presence.
Mr. Powell then thanked Mr. Ivanov for showing flexibility, although what the minister said lacked details and echoed Russian comments over many years surrounding the refusal to withdraw troops.
On the flight to Georgia on Saturday night, Mr. Powell declined to criticize Mr. Putin's government, saying only that it was important to have a dialogue about certain Russian actions.
He noted, for example, that Mr. Putin enjoyed 80 percent approval ratings, that his party had just swept parliamentary elections and that the Russian economy was growing at a fast clip. All those factors, he suggested, might make Russian leaders impatient with American carping.
The debate over how tough to be with the Russians on human rights and other matters has echoed through Russian-American relations for decades. Aides to Mr. Bush criticized President Clinton in the 2000 campaign for being too soft on President Boris N. Yeltsin, and now many experts on Russia make the same criticism of Mr. Bush.
What few criticisms there have been have not been well received in Moscow. The American ambassador to Russia, Alexander Vershbow, who has spoken of growing concerns about Russian political values, has himself been singled out for attack in the Russian news media.
American concerns about recent Russian actions peaked in the summer and fall, especially after the arrest of Mr. Khodorkovsky, the Russian businessman and critic of the government, and the seizure of his energy company's assets. Mr. Khodorkovsky had begun saying that he would challenge Mr. Putin in the presidential election in 2004.
Mr. Khodorkovsky's jailing, in turn, galvanized the international business world, and American officials said they had transmitted the worries of businesspeople to the Russians during the past several months.
In addition, American officials said the United States energy secretary, Spencer Abraham, and the commerce secretary, Donald L. Evans, had spoken to their Russian counterparts about Mr. Khodorkovsky's fate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and President Vladimir V. Putin. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); GEORGIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



688 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Red Ink Realities 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Even conservatives are starting to admit that George Bush isn't serious when he claims to be doing something about the exploding budget deficit. At best -- to borrow the already classic language of the State of the Union address -- his administration is engaged in deficit reduction-related program activities.
 But these admissions have been accompanied by an urban legend about what went wrong. According to cleverly misleading reports from the Heritage Foundation and other like-minded sources, the deficit is growing because Mr. Bush isn't sufficiently conservative: he's allowing runaway growth in domestic spending. This myth is intended to divert attention from the real culprit: sharply reduced tax collections, mainly from corporations and the wealthy. 
 Is domestic spending really exploding? Think about it: farm subsidies aside, which domestic programs have received lavish budget increases over the last three years? Education? Don't be silly: No Child Left Behind is rapidly turning into a sick joke.
In fact, many government agencies are severely underfinanced. For example, last month the head of the National Park Service's police admitted to reporters that her force faced serious budget and staff shortages, and was promptly suspended.
A recent study by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities does the math. While overall government spending has risen rapidly since 2001, the great bulk of that increase can be attributed either to outlays on defense and homeland security, or to types of government spending, like unemployment insurance, that automatically rise when the economy is depressed. 
Why, then, do we face the prospect of huge deficits as far as the eye can see? Part of the answer is the surge in defense and homeland security spending. The main reason for deficits, however, is that revenues have plunged. Federal tax receipts as a share of national income are now at their lowest level since 1950.
Of course, most people don't feel that their taxes have fallen sharply. And they're right: taxes that fall mainly on middle-income Americans, like the payroll tax, are still near historic highs. The decline in revenue has come almost entirely from taxes that are mostly paid by the richest 5 percent of families: the personal income tax and the corporate profits tax. These taxes combined now take a smaller share of national income than in any year since World War II. 
This decline in tax collections from the wealthy is partly the result of the Bush tax cuts, which account for more than half of this year's projected deficit. But it also probably reflects an epidemic of tax avoidance and evasion. Everyone who wants to understand what's happening to the tax system should read "Perfectly Legal," the new book by David Cay Johnston, The Times's tax reporter, who shows how ideologues have made America safe for wealthy people who don't feel like paying taxes.
I was particularly struck by Mr. Johnston's description of the carefully staged Senate Finance Committee hearings in 1997-1998. Senators Trent Lott and Frank Murkowski accused the I.R.S. of "Gestapo"-like tactics, and Congress passed new rules that severely restricted the I.R.S.'s ability to investigate suspected tax evaders. Only later, when the cameras were no longer rolling, did it become clear that the whole thing was a con. Most of the charges weren't true, and there was good reason to believe that the star witness, who dramatically described how I.R.S. agents had humiliated him, really was engaged in major-league tax evasion (he eventually paid $23 million, insisting he had done no wrong).
And this was part of a larger con. What's playing out in America right now is the bait-and-switch strategy known on the right as "starve the beast." The ultimate goal is to slash government programs that help the poor and the middle class, and use the savings to cut taxes for the rich. But the public would never vote for that.
So the right has used deceptive salesmanship to undermine tax enforcement and push through upper-income tax cuts. And now that deficits have emerged, the right insists that they are the result of runaway spending, which must be curbed. 
While this strategy has been remarkably successful so far, it also offers a big opportunity to the opposition. So here's a test for the Democratic contenders: details of your proposals aside, which of you can do the best job explaining the ongoing budget con to the American people? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX RELIEF (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); TAX FRAUD (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); FAMILY (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (68%); INCOME TAX (67%); CORPORATE TAX (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (54%); NATIONAL PARKS (52%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (55%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



689 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Unusually Visible as He Mends Fences in Europe 

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: NETTUNO, Italy, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
Vice President Dick Cheney, on a five-day trip through Switzerland and Italy, is stepping out of his self-imposed seclusion and into what administration officials and political analysts say is a calculated election-year makeover to temper his hard-line image at home and abroad.
 Mr. Cheney, who usually shuns the media, has given a spate of radio and newspaper interviews in the last month. This European trip is only his second overseas in the last three years, the first being a visit to the Persian Gulf in early 2002 to build support for toppling Saddam Hussein. He invited eight journalists to join him aboard Air Force Two, a military version of a 757 jetliner. 
 On Monday, he addressed a gathering of 200 Italian troops, political leaders, entrepreneurs and university students in Rome. He thanked top Italian officials, including Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, for their nation's contributions and sacrifices in Iraq and Afghanistan. And he paid homage at the American military cemetery here to the soldiers killed during the Allied landing in World War II at nearby Anzio 60 years ago this week. On Tuesday, he will meet with Pope John Paul II at the Vatican.
Mr. Cheney's advisers say that raising the vice president's public visibility and opening a public-relations offensive is aimed at mending fences with foreign critics of the Iraq war and countering Democrats' efforts at home to demonize him as a symbol of the Bush administration's close corporate connections and overreliance on dubious intelligence about Iraq's illicit weapons. 
"This year's going to be a long slog, and it's imperative that we recount the accomplishments of the administration," said Mary Matalin, a longtime Cheney adviser. "This is something he can do quite well. He's particularly adept at putting events in a historical context."
Mr. Cheney has long been a favorite of conservatives, and in the 2000 campaign he also offered a reassuring presence on the ticket to many independents wary of Gov. George W. Bush's inexperience. But with Mr. Bush having to rely less on Mr. Cheney's stature after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, there are signs the vice president is becoming a more divisive figure.
A New York Times poll this month found that Mr. Cheney's favorable ratings had declined to 20 percent of the voters surveyed compared with 39 percent in a similar poll in January 2002. His unfavorable ratings increased to 24 percent, from 11 percent, in the same period. Many voters in both surveys said they were undecided or did not know enough to have an opinion.
"He's clearly at a point in his vice presidency to do more harm than good, except among the most intense Republican partisans who look to him for reassurance," said Paul Light, a vice-presidential scholar at the Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University. "Handling Dick Cheney is like handling nuclear material. It can be quite powerful, but it can be quite dangerous and has to be handled carefully."
Mr. Cheney was a major architect of the administration's march to war with Iraq, and critics now say he oversold the intelligence about Baghdad's illicit arms. 
Democrats who have been critical of the contracting process for rebuilding Iraq have singled out the Halliburton Company in particular, in part because Mr. Cheney was chairman of the Texas-based energy company until 2000. Halliburton agreed last week to repay the government $6.3 million for apparent overcharges.
In a new tell-all book, "The Price of Loyalty" by Ron Suskind, former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill criticized Mr. Cheney, an old friend from the Ford administration who recruited him to serve in Mr. Bush's cabinet, for creating a "Praetorian Guard" around Mr. Bush that prevented dissenting views from reaching the president.
Over the weekend, Mr. Cheney sought to defuse that controversy with a joke, telling corporate and political leaders at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, "I'm not the best personnel officer in the world." He added, "I wouldn't believe everything I read in Paul O'Neill's book."
Traveling with Mr. Cheney, who turns 63 on Friday, offers a rare glimpse into his daily life. His entourage of about 50 people includes his wife, Lynne V. Cheney, an author, and their daughter Liz Cheney, a former Middle East specialist at the State Department, now an informal adviser to the re-election campaign.
Mr. Cheney has suffered four heart attacks over the last two and half decades, but his doctors say his health is good. Aides say he works out most mornings, often on the stationary bicycle he brought on this trip. A former secretary of defense and avid military history buff, Mr. Cheney spent time talking to the crews of the Air Force MH-53 Special Operations helicopters that whisked his traveling party through the Alps.
Democrats acknowledge they are seeking to make Mr. Cheney a lightning rod for criticism of the administration. "Cheney is reassuring to the hard right-wing base, but to the public at large, he has gone from a reassuring figure to a symbol of the many things that have gone wrong with this administration," said Jim Mulhall, a communications strategist with the Democratic National Committee in Washington.
But aides say none of this has shaken Mr. Bush's trust in Mr. Cheney, who still wields huge, though largely unseen, influence on issues from Iraq to tax policy. The two meet weekly for a private lunch in a small dining room off the Oval Office. Mr. Cheney has repeatedly said he has no presidential aspirations of his own, allowing him to focus solely on Mr. Bush's agenda.
At the gathering in Davos on Saturday, for instance, Mr. Cheney sought to soften the administration's unilateralist image and struck a conciliatory tone in seeking help from Europeans and other traditional allies to promote democratic trends in the Middle East as a way to fight the root causes of terrorism.
He repeated many of the same themes on Monday in his speech in the library of the Italian Senate, saving special praise for Italy, which has nearly 3,000 forces in Iraq, for being "a steadfast partner on every front, from law enforcement to diplomacy to intelligence."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Cheney and his wife, Lynne, at the American war cemetery in Nettuno yesterday. He has stepped out of his self-imposed seclusion. (Pool photo by Mario De Renzis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); WORLD WAR II (74%); HISTORY (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); WRITERS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); TERRORISM (67%); RELIGION (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); CEMETERIES (53%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (57%) ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); HOLY SEE (78%); GULF STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



690 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Cisco Chief Calls Productivity New Engine of Wealth

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
Four years ago, John T. Chambers seemed to sit atop the highest peak at this Alpine ski resort, where the World Economic Forum convenes its annual meeting of government officials and corporate chiefs. Then, with the bursting of the Internet bubble, he fell to the bottom.
 The other day, as Mr. Chambers, the chief executive of Cisco Systems, surveyed the view from a hotel overlooking Davos, he appeared to be on top again. 
 While Cisco no longer grows 50 percent a year, as it did in the supercharged 1990's, Mr. Chambers is sure he has found a new elixir for growth.
 Cisco, which makes routers, switches and other networking equipment, is selling itself as an agent of productivity gains for its customers -- whether they are companies or entire countries.
"The next big thing in technology is going to change dramatically our standard of living," Mr. Chambers said in an interview. "If productivity grows 1 percent per year, your standard of living doubles every 72 years. If it grows at 3 percent, which I think is probable, you're talking every 24 years."
 This is the kind of vision that thrives in the thin air of Davos. For Mr. Chambers, who was a near-ubiquitous presence at this year's conference, it is a way to reclaim his place among the vanguard of technology executives.
 "Three years ago, we were the pessimists," he said, recalling the crash of technology companies and their stocks. "We said this was a 100-year flood. Now, we're the optimists because of the productivity opportunity we see."
 Not everyone here shares his enthusiasm. While economists agree that countries with a more productive labor force grow faster, the drive for productivity is spurring many Western companies to relocate jobs, increasingly white-collar ones, to cheaper markets including India and China.
 The exodus of these jobs has become a potent political issue in the United States in an election year and amid an economic rebound that has not generated bountiful new employment.
 The market research firm Gart-ner estimates that one of every 10 jobs at American technology vendors or service providers will move overseas by the end of this year. By 2008, one-quarter of all traditional information technology jobs will be in emerging market nations.
 "These dislocations can be substantial," said Michael D. Fleisher, the chairman of Gartner. "Work can move offshore very quickly, and it remains to be seen how quickly we can innovate to replace those jobs."
 In Western Europe, which has lagged behind the United States in productivity growth and has generally higher labor costs, the prospect of competing against Asia for jobs and investment is even more alarming.
 "Those industries with low productivity growth will simply lose jobs," said Erkki Liikanen, the European commissioner for enterprise and the information society. "It's true that high productivity means fewer jobs per sector. But low productivity growth means no jobs."
Sir Martin Sorrell, chairman of the WPP Group, the London-based advertising conglomerate, said the trend was clear. "There is a massive shift in wealth from West to East, " he argued, "and unless we make major structural changes, it will have damaging consequences for Europe."
 Mr. Chambers, an inveterate salesman, prefers to look on the bright side. At Cisco, where he is pushing for productivity gains of 10 to 15 percent a year over the next five years, his strategy is intended to restore momentum to a company that was once among the fastest growing in the computer industry, and then one of its spectacular casualties.
 "We believe that to compete in this environment we're about to go into, with very good competitors from Asia, etc., that our productivity per employee needs to be $700,000," he said. It is currently around $490,000, a level that Mr. Chambers said was twice that of its nearest rival.
 Cisco's productivity jumped 9 percent in the last quarter, Mr. Chambers said, contributing to an 87.5 percent increase in profit per share. While Cisco may never again see the dizzying growth brought by the Internet boom, he thinks it can achieve a more sustainable pace. 
 Moving jobs to lower-cost countries is part of that, Mr. Chambers said. Cisco, based in San Jose, Calif., has moved jobs to India and China, though he said he did not know the exact number.
 "If you're talking about an engineering job in the U.S., or here in Europe, versus an engineering job in China or India, the price differential is 5 or 10 to 1," he said. "That's not going to change."
 Mr. Chambers said, though, that the number of people Cisco employs in advanced economies had not decreased because it trains its displaced workers for new jobs. It is a prescription he offers for countries, as well.
 "The jobs over time will go to the best-educated places with the best infrastructure and the most supportive governments," Mr. Chambers said. "How you create an environment where the jobs stay is going to be a key element."
 At Davos, a conference devoted to the importance of free trade, it was hard to find anyone who was willing to call for governments to restrict the flow of jobs across borders. But people here were watching the campaigning leading up to Tuesday's primary in New Hampshire, where Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, former Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont and other Democratic presidential aspirants have warned about the human costs of globalization.
 And Michael K. Powell, a Bush appointee as chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, said, "It's one of those developments that if it happens too quickly, you'll inevitably get a political reaction."
 The fears are intensified by the rise of China, oneof the prime destinations for jobs moving out of the United States and Europe. Goldman, Sachs issued a study here predicting that China's economy would overtake that of Germany within a decade, and surpass the American economy by 2041.
 Zhu Min, an economic adviser to the president of China, was met with silence at a dinner last week when he asked Americans at the conference how their country planned to finance its economy when both blue-collar manufacturing and white-collar service jobs were going elsewhere.
 Trends, to be sure, have a way of being inflated in the Alpine air here. Mr. Fleisher of Gartner said companies would probably rethink the movement of jobs overseas after the first major failure or scandal involving an offshore operation, which he thinks is inevitable.
 Likewise, although Mr. Chambers says that productivity is crucial to the future, he concedes that the most tangible economic fruits -- jobs and growth -- still hinge on old-fashioned things, like selling routers and switches. In the United States, he said, Cisco faces an uphill climb.
 "C.E.O.'s are the most conservative I've ever seen," he said. "Nobody wants to be spending money if we have another downturn."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Chambers, Cisco Systems' chief executive, making a point at the Davos economic forum last weekend. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RESORTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (75%); SKIING (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (70%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EMERGING MARKETS (67%); RELOCATIONS (62%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (61%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (61%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%) CISCO SYSTEMS INC (CSCO) 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (96%) SIC3577 OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (93%) CHAMBERS, JOHN T. 

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



691 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: American Express Profit Rose 12% for 4th Quarter and 2003 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
The American Express Company said yesterday that its earnings rose 12 percent in the fourth quarter and the year, driven by greater spending and borrowing on its payment cards as well as more investment activity. 
 "We delivered record results for the full year as well as the fourth quarter and are in an excellent position to capitalize on an improving economy as we enter 2004," Kenneth I. Chenault, American Express's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. 
 American Express, the country's fourth-largest issuer of credit cards, predicted that card use would rise among consumers eager to earn rewards points. The company said that recent acquisitions should broaden its access to investors, while a court ruling might help it take market share from Visa and MasterCard. 
 "We are also benefiting from stronger equity markets," Mr. Chenault said, "as well as an improvement in the travel sector." 
 In 2003, American Express earned $2.99 billion, or $2.30 a share. The fourth quarter contributed $763 million to those earnings, a 12 percent increase from the fourth quarter of 2002, translating into 59 cents a share.
 If not for an accounting change in its asset management unit, the earnings would have been 60 cents a share. Analysts polled by Thomson First Call had predicted 59 cents a share.
 The accounting change reduced earnings at American Express Financial Advisers by $20 million, or $13 million after taxes.
 Revenue for the year climbed 9 percent, to $25.87 billion, which included a 14 percent improvement in the fourth quarter.
 American Express, based in New York, attributed much of its gains to the lure of its rewards programs, which keep cardholders charging and retailers paying transaction fees. The company has often said that it is more interested in that fee income than it is in finance charges paid by cardholders carrying balances.
 "We're really focused more on spending than on lending," Gary L. Crittenden, the company's chief financial officer, said yesterday during a conference call with analysts. "Lending is really a byproduct."
 Spending on American Express's cards rose 13 percent last year. The fee income on that spending increased 10.7 percent for the year to $8.78 billion, which included a 14.6 percent rise in the fourth quarter. 
 At the same time, the company increased its own spending to drive those gains: expenses were up 8 percent, to $21.6 billion, which the company said was primarily a reflection of a 25 percent increase in things like member rewards, marketing and promotions. 
 Counting stock options as expenses, meanwhile, contributed to an 11 percent rise in human resources costs. 
 Travel Related Services, which includes the company's cards and is its largest unit, earned $2.43 billion last year, a 14 percent increase. 
 American Express Financial Services, the asset management business, reported a 6 percent increase in net income, to $669 million, which includes the $20 million pretax charge caused by the accounting change. The company attributed the unit's gains to an increase in its clients' assets, better returns on its investments and an improving stock market. 
 American Express repeated that it planned to grow this year by pursuing partnerships with banks that now issue only MasterCard- or Visa-branded cards.
 A court ruling now under appeal would open access to those banks both for American Express and for the Discover unit of Morgan Stanley.
 "We are engaged in talks with a number of bank partners about network opportunities," Mr. Crittenden said. "We are confident that we will do a deal this year."
 Shares of American Express closed up 99 cents, or 2 percent, yesterday at $50.95. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (75%); LOYALTY MARKETING (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); RETAILERS (70%); STOCK OPTIONS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%); VISA INC (91%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (AXP) 

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%); V (NYSE) (91%); AMP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%) SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: KENNETH I CHENAULT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



692 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Audit Results Move Google A Step Closer To Offering 

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
Google has cleared one of the last remaining hurdles in its closely watched effort to sell shares to the public, people close to the company said Monday, receiving a clean bill of health in a company-paid audit certifying its compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley law approved by Congress in 2002 in response to the wave of corporate scandals.
 The report is a crucial step in Google's carefully staged path toward an initial public offering that is expected to take place this spring. Google's board has been awaiting the report before giving the final go-ahead for the company to file a formal stock registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission, according to several executives involved with the process. 
 Google has repeatedly declined to comment publicly about any aspect of its planned offering. 
 If the registration is given the green light at a Google board meeting that could take place as early as this week, the public offering would most likely take place during the last week in April.
 The privately held Google, based in Mountain View, Calif., has turned its highly popular Internet search engine into a powerful moneymaker by selling space for relatively unobtrusive ads tied to the results of specific searches. 
Although the audit is not required to become a public company, Google commissioned it as part of an concentrated effort aimed at ensuring that it does not make any missteps related to allowing its shares to be offered to ordinary investors and traded in the stock market. 
 Google's decision to file for a public offering has generated intense interest both in Silicon Valley and on Wall Street. The widely anticipated prospect of a Google offering has inevitably raised comparisons with Netscape, the once highflying Web browser creator that went public with a value of $2.6 billion in August 1995, and served as a spark for the dot-com boom of the late 1990's.
 Several analysts have estimated that Google's initial public offering could establish a market value forthe company as high as $20 billion, creating wealth for its founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, and turning many employees into multimillionaires.
 While some experts expect the event to set off another round of stock market speculation in technology companies and produce a cascade of investment dollars, most argue that Google is such a special case that it is not likely to bring a flurry of me-too offerings with it.
 "The hope is that we don't move into a frenzied public offering marketplace," said Jim Breyer, managing partner at Accel Partners, a venture capital firm based in Palo Alto, Calif. "Google is a very big deal in a lot of ways, but there's no company that is private today that is building the same kind of ecosystem."
 The company has not yet picked a lead underwriter for its stock market offering, Google executives say, but several people involved in the process say that J.P. Morgan and Goldman Sachs are the only real candidates to manage the deal. Google is still weighing whether it should offer some shares through a public auction, in part to deflect potential criticism over whether the many investors eager to own a piece of the business will be treated in an equitable fashion.
 The Netscape public offering was a crucial milestone in the Internet stock market boom of the late 1990's, which ended with Netscape being acquired by AOL Time Warner and a series of lawsuits and criminal indictments. To help avoid a similar fate, Google executives are proceeding far more carefully than did most of the companies that rode that wave. 
 "Google will have to be the role model for how to do it under the new rules," said a technology fund manager who is watching the Google preparations closely. 
 While the consequences of Google's entry into the stock market are still unclear, the company's undisputed financial success has brought increasingly determined competitors trying to slice away at Google's position as the most popular search engine.
Google has not publicly disclosed its finances, but people involved with the company said Google was closing in on $1 billion in annual revenue.
 Yahoo has said that it will stop relying on Google as its main search engine and begin deploying its own search technology. Microsoft has also begun a major effort to compete in the search business. On Monday Microsoft introduced an MSN search bar for use with the Internet Explorer Web browser, closely modeled after a similar software application available from both Google and Yahoo.
 At the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman, said that Google currently was "way better" than Microsoft in search and praised the "high level of I.Q." of Google's researchers. He argued that Microsoft would catch up once it focused its full effort on the task.
 At the Comdex computer industry trade show last year, Mr. Gates gave a demonstration of Microsoft search technology, which it is expected to introduce some time this year. Analysts remain divided, though, over whether Microsoft will wait to deploy its more advanced search software, blending local and remote searching, until it introduces its Longhorn version of the Windows system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDITS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); BONDS (69%); SEARCH ENGINES (66%); INTERNET BROWSERS (63%); SCANDALS (56%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%) GOOGLE 

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: SERGEY BRIN (59%); LARRY PAGE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



693 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Helped by Greenspan Comments, Shares Post Big Gains

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Encouraging words from the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, sent stocks sharply higher yesterday as investors looked forward with renewed enthusiasm to earnings reports. The Dow Jones industrial average reached a new 31-month high, rising more than 130 points.
 The markets had a late-day boost from Mr. Greenspan, who told an economic conference in London that he was confident that jobs lost during the recent recession could be replaced. He also warned policy makers against putting up protectionist trade barriers, saying they could hurt the global economy. 
 "I think Mr. Greenspan has given us some hope," said Peter Cardillo, president and chief strategist of Global Partner Securities. "He's confident there will be creation of new jobs, and that was what the market wanted to hear."
The Dow gained 134.22 points, or 1.3 percent, to 10,702.51, after a weekly loss of 0.3 percent that ended eight weeks of advances. It was the index's highest finish since June 21, 2001, when it closed at 10,715.43.
The Dow is now slightly more than 1,000 points away from its record close of 11,722.98, reached on Jan. 14, 2000.
The broader gauges were also higher. The Nasdaq composite index closed up 29.96 points, or 1.4 percent, at 2,153.83, after last week's 0.8 percent decline ended a six-week winning streak. The Nasdaq last closed higher on June 29, 2001, at 2,160.54.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 13.82 points, or 1.2 percent, at 1,155.37, after a weekly increase of 0.1 percent -- its ninth consecutive week of advances. The close was the highest for index since March 19, 2002, when it finished at 1,170.29.
About one-third of the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 have reported results, and earnings are up 27 percent over all -- better than the expected 21 percent increase. That, combined with upbeat economic news, bodes well for the economy, but some analysts are starting to worry that the market is overbought and may be headed for a pause.
Mr. Greenspan's comments, which did not address the outlook for the United States economy, came a day before the Fed will begin a two-day meeting to consider interest rates. Rates are unlikely to rise anytime soon because of low inflation and slow growth of jobs, economists say.
Yesterday, the National Association of Realtors reported that sales of previously owned homes reached a record last year, largely driven by attractive mortgage rates.
On the Dow, Merck closed up $1.42 at $47.20 after Barron's noted that it traded at a lower price-to-earnings multiple than its rivals and offered a bigger dividend yield than many.
The Dow component Hewlett-Packard rose 82 cents, to close at $26.12, after another technology company, Lexmark International, the maker of computer printers, beat expectations with a rise in quarterly profits on strong sales. Lexmark gained $5.66, to close at $84.50.
Aventis gained $2.10, to close at $75.10, after calling on shareholders to reject a hostile takeover bid by Sanofi-Synthelabo. Sanofi-Synthelabo, the maker of the stroke-prevention drug Plavix and the sleeping pill Ambien, closed down $2.71, at $34.30.
Schering-Plough closed up 33 cents at $17.85, after its earnings missed estimates, largely because of a decline in sales and a large revamping charge. The company, the maker of the Clarinex allergy medicine, reported a loss for the year -- a first since the company was formed by a 1970 merger.
Treasury Prices Decline
By Reuters
Treasury prices slipped yesterday as surprisingly strong housing figures stoked fears of more bearish news for bonds later in the week.
Sales of existing homes increased 6.9 percent in December to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.47 million units, exceeding forecasts of 6.1 million, and the second highest on record.
The boom confirmed that housing helped bolster economic growth last quarter and raised the risk for bonds that fourth-quarter gross domestic product -- due on Friday -- could be even higher than the consensus estimate of 4.8 percent.
The price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 15/32, to 100 30/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, increased to 4.13 percent from 4.07 percent on Friday.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.775	99.517	High Rate	0.890	0.955	Investment Rate	0.907	0.976	Low Rate	0.865	0.900	Median Rate	0.880	0.940	Total applied for	$40,427,975	$39,500,931	Accepted	$24,874,875	$21,934,111	Noncompetitive	$1,377,319	$1,135,879	

Both issues are dated Jan. 29, 2004. The three-month bills mature on April 29 and the six-month bills on July 29.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "3-Month Treasury Bills"High rate at weekly auction. Graph tracks bills from September 2003 through January 2004.(Source by the Bond Buyer) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); DIVIDENDS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); RECESSION (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); EXISTING HOME SALES (68%); INTEREST RATES (63%); MORTGAGE RATES (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



694 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Explore Ancient Lakefront Life, in the Sahara 

BYLINE:  By BRENDA FOWLER

 BODY:
The paleontologists were driving across the scorched and trackless Tenere Desert of Niger, following a low ridge of rock bearing dinosaur fossils. Suddenly, someone on the team, led by Dr. Paul Sereno of the University of Chicago, spotted something dark against the tawny dunes.
 Getting out of their vehicles, they stepped into sand littered with the fossilized bones of modern crocodiles, hippos, camels and birds -- interesting creatures, to be sure, but not exactly the quarry of these paleontologists. "But then things got really strange," recalls Gabrielle Lyon, a member of the expedition who is Dr. Sereno's wife and the director of Project Exploration, a science education group. 
 As members of the group stood around their vehicles comparing finds, Mike Hettwer, the expedition photographer, came loping up with news of human skeletons and stone tools eroding from a hillside.
In search of pieces of the 110-million-year-old Cretaceous puzzle, Dr. Sereno's team had found what archaeologists in Niger say is a large Neolithic, or Stone Age, burial and settlement site tentatively dated at 5,000 years old.
"It's a very important site," says Dr. Abdoulaye Maga, an archaeologist with the Institute of Research in the Human Sciences in Niamey, Niger, who visited it in 2000, shortly after the discovery. "It's the largest site that has been found and not pillaged." Though he has discovered and excavated a few dozen new species of African dinosaurs, Dr. Sereno has no experience with prehistoric human sites like this. He said his team counted 130 skeletons, including one with the remains of a stone bead necklace and innumerable stone and bone tools. He suspects, he says, that much more lies buried.
"I'm not afraid of any kind of dinosaur, the uglier the better," he said. "But here for the first time I got goose bumps because I was looking at my own skeleton, a modern human."
Dr. Diane Gifford-Gonzalez, an archaeologist at the University of California at Santa Cruz who has discussed the site with Dr. Sereno, said the discovery was a "big deal" and merited "serious, serious work."
Fearing the site would be looted and ruined, Dr. Sereno initially told only Dr. Maga and his colleagues about its location. Because financing for archaeological work in Niger is scarce, no excavation was begun.
When Dr. Sereno returned to the site in November, he saw it had deteriorated so he and his team spent two days in their two-month expedition mapping it and then applying a polymer to the surface artifacts to protect them from further erosion. He is now trying to find financing and other archaeologists to assist Dr. Maga with the excavation.
No radiocarbon dating has been done yet; Dr. Maga based his dating on the presence of a thin, discoid knife made of green jasper that is characteristic of a little-known population, traditionally called the Tenerian culture, that lived in the area some 5,000 years ago.
Today the Tenere Desert, a California-size part of the Sahara that blankets much of Niger and is famous for its 100-mile-long sand dunes, is one of the driest places on earth and practically uninhabited.
But five millennia ago the environment there was much wetter, and Dr. Sereno thinks the sediments suggest that the settlement may have been on the shore of a lake.
"I found some catfish skulls, a bunch of them, and there was a little tail, and I'm blowing the sand off and then I run into the edge of a ceramic bowl that was around them," Dr. Sereno said. "I was looking at a bowl of fossilized catfish. Someone in the middle of a meal abandoned this bowl, and it got fossilized."
Dr. Sereno's team identified five distinct areas at the site, including two large burial places of more than 100 yards in diameter. Besides the skeletons and the jasper knife, they found several large grinding stones, harpoons and fishhooks made of bone, fingernail-size arrowheads in many colors, and jewelry, including a round pendant made of the fluted tooth of the hippopotamus and a necklace made of ostrich egg shell and stone beads.
Scattered across the site were fish and animal bones, including those of domesticated cattle. With the exception of a few items they plucked off the surface and have brought back to show archaeologists, the team did not disturb anything.
While the history of the powerful Egyptian civilization of the same era has been widely studied, the culture of the vast interior of central Africa has begun to attract attention only in the last few decades.
"There was a very rich and fascinating cultural manifestation around what is now the Tenere desert but then was grassland and marshes," said Dr. Gifford-Gonzalez. "We're not thinking one culture. We're thinking a network of people who interacted from the Sudanese Nile all the way across the Sahara."
Indeed, the greenish stone used in some of the arrowheads is probably amazonite, which comes from several hundred miles away in the Tibesti Mountains of northeastern Chad, said Dr. Augustin F. C. Holl, an archaeologist at the University of Michigan and curator of West African archaeology at the Museum of Anthropology there.
The people who made these tools maintained herds of domesticated cattle, goats and sheep. But they did not grow crops; they harvested the abundant wild grains that grew along lakes and streams.
Dr. Holl said the vastness of the cemeteries suggests they may have been used over many centuries, and perhaps only during the dry months, when small groups gathered at seasonal lakes. In the rainy season, they would have taken their herds into the highlands, such as the Air Mountains of Central Niger, where many rock carvings have been found. 
But Dr. Maga in Niger and Dr. Susan McIntosh, an archaeologist at Rice University in Houston who works in Mali, believe the settlement was probably permanent. 
"They were clearly fishing part of the time, they had their cattle, they had their cereals, so this is looking like a pretty comprehensive economy," Dr. McIntosh said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A knife made of green jasper, above, and human skeletons were accidentally found in Niger at a burial and settlement site estimated at 5,000 years old. (Photographs from Mike Hettwer) Map of the Sahara shows surrounding area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (93%); ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); MAMMALS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (69%) Archaeology and Anthropology; Stone Age; Tools; Knives; Research; Archaeology and Anthropology; Finances; Jewels and Jewelry

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%) University of Chicago

PERSON: Brenda Fowler; Paul (Dr) Sereno

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) SAHARA DESERT (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NILE RIVER (59%) NIGER (94%); UNITED STATES (88%); SUDAN (54%) Niger; Tenere Desert (Niger); Nile River; Sudan; Sahara Desert

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



695 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL: N.B.A. Analysis; 
Coaches Rise in the West and Sweat in the East

BYLINE:  By CHRIS BROUSSARD

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., Jan. 26 

 BODY:
What does a coach have to do to keep a job in the Eastern Conference? Scale tall buildings in a single bound? Outrun a speeding bullet?
 Byron Scott took the Nets as far as they should have gone the last two years before losing twice to superior teams in the N.B.A. finals, yet he is unemployed today. 
 Rick Carlisle, the N.B.A. coach of the year in 2002, led the Detroit Pistons to consecutive 50-victory campaigns before being dismissed after last season. 
"Those are two coaches that did well, and both of them were let go," Donnie Walsh, the president of the Indiana Pacers, said. "So nobody's safe." 
Isiah Thomas was not safe in Indiana despite leading one of the youngest teams in league history to three consecutive playoff appearances. Last summer, Larry Bird fired him (then hired Carlisle) without even a hint of notice. The Hornets parted with Paul Silas after he kept them successful through the death of guard Bobby Phills, frequent injuries and a transition to New Orleans that alienated their fans in Charlotte.
Oddly enough, in the East, where the level of play is incredibly lower than in the West, the standards for coaches are incredibly high.
"We all know it's a tough business heading into it," Carlisle said. "Right now, the cycle has been one of a lot of change in the East."
Of the conference's 15 teams, 13 have different coaches than they had at the end of last season. Jim O'Brien is the senior member of the group with three seasons in Boston. Terry Stotts is next with 13 months of service in Atlanta.
"I think there's such a pressure to win, there's such a pressure if you're a good team to get to be a better team," said Rod Thorn, the Nets' president, who fired Scott on Monday. "Maybe there is not as much patience today as there was 10 years ago."
After commenting on the job security of coaches, Walsh, who has handed most of his basketball duties over to Bird, amended his statement. "I think Phil Jackson's safe," he said.
Jackson, of course, has Shaquille O'Neal, Kobe Bryant, Gary Payton and Karl Malone leading his Los Angeles Lakers. Jackson is also in the Western Conference, where patience rules.
Contrary to their Eastern counterparts, teams in the West give their coaches a bit of leeway. Timberwolves Coach Flip Saunders has survived seven straight first-round playoff defeats, Jeff Bzdelik was retained in Denver after winning only 17 games last season, and rather than fire Coach Maurice Cheeks, Portland is instead trying to rid its locker room of knucklehead players.
Of the West's 14 teams, only 3 have new coaches this season. The West has better big men, but could its coaching consistency also contribute to its dominance?
"If you can have a long-term coach, it's better," Walsh said. "When you have the same coach for a while, everybody knows what styleand what system you're going to play. It's good for players and good for everyone."
In the absence of such utopia, clubs in the East often appear to be grasping at straws when searching for coaches, a practice that leads to all kinds of strange contradictions.
Silas was not good enough to coach Baron Davis in New Orleans, but he is being entrusted with the young career of LeBron James in Cleveland. Tim Floyd was 49-190 in Chicago, but New Orleans believed he could lift the Hornets to the next level. Carlisle was fired by the Pistons, in part, for his refusal to use the young players Tayshaun Prince and Mehmet Okur, yet he replaced Thomas in Indiana.
"I just think that most teams are trying to find the right fit for their team," Joe Dumars, the Pistons' president, said in an e-mail message.
There seems to be the feeling in the East that the talent gap among this mediocre lot is so slim that the right coach can be the difference between a trip to the finals and a first-round exit. Hence, the coaching carousel.
"I think that's a possibility," Thorn said. "I think a coach is a critical part of any formula. A lot of people think it's all players. You have to have good players, but I think the right coach for the right team can make a major difference."
All of this madness will sort itself out in the spring, when the playoffs will turn saviors into sitting ducks.
Can the firing of Scott possibly be the right move if Lawrence Frank doesn't get the Nets back to the finals? Can the hiring of Floyd be justified if the Hornets bow out in the first or second round again? Can Carlisle, who for all his regular-season magic was ousted by 4-1 and by 4-0 in the playoffs the last two years, extend his success to the postseason?
"Today, in the Eastern Conference, Indiana and Detroit stand out because of what they've done," Thorn said. "So unless we start playing a lot better, I think we'd have a difficult time today beating either one of those teams in a playoff. But by the end of the season a lot of things happen, and I think that we will be very competitive."
But under Scott, the Nets were more than competitive in the East, where apparently a coach's grip must be more powerful than a locomotive to hold on to a job.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Detroit fired Rick Carlisle, above, who went to Indiana. The Pacers fired Isiah Thomas, who was hired by the Knicks last month. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); DISMISSALS (90%); SPORTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%) Basketball; Coaches and Managers

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NEW JERSEY NETS (84%); INDIANA PACERS (83%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); DETROIT PISTONS (57%); CHARLOTTE HORNETS (56%)

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (58%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (56%); JAMES J O'BRIEN (54%) Chris Broussard

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (76%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); BOSTON, MA, USA (53%) INDIANA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



696 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1788 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL; 
The Lessons of Chicago's West Side

BYLINE:  By LIZ ROBBINS

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
To make it to 33rd Street and Seventh Avenue in Manhattan, Isiah Lord Thomas III first had to get from Congress Street to West Jackson on Chicago's West Side, where the warmest place of refuge was the gym at Our Lady of Sorrows.
 He and his brothers walked out of their row house, chased away the giant rats that had scared off the cats, and after scouting the territory for gangs, dodged the Vice Lords on one block and the rival Black Souls on the next. 
 "To me, the West Side was strictly about survival," Thomas said.
"Every day was about surviving. How you're going to eat, how you're going to act in school. It was a test of your instincts. There were no written rules. Everything was about how well you listened, how well you observed and how quickly you processed that." 
From the West Side -- which Thomas wears as a badge as much as a chip -- he learned the skills he needed to get out: how to play basketball, how to be a star from age 3, how to fight for himself and his family, how to hustle, how to win.
Ultimately, that last quality may be all the Knicks' faithful want. In the weeks since he replaced Scott Layden as team president, Thomas has used other skills from his upbringing to reconstruct the Knicks, surgically, if not ceremoniously, and jolt their status quo.
He rid the team of six players, made a blockbuster trade for point guard Stephon Marbury, fired Coach Don Chaney and two assistants, unearthed Lenny Wilkens, and made Mark Aguirre, his West Side friend and former Pistons teammate, an assistant coach.
Thomas is fueled by one vision. "He told me, 'We're going to get a championship in New York,' " said Ruby Carlsen, his sister and confidante. "He hasn't told me when yet, but he has never been wrong."
Throughout Thomas's controversial Hall of Fame career as a player and then as a coach and executive, his family has always shielded him as he has rescued them, their symbiotic support held by indomitable roots of struggle and overcoming.
Two of his six brothers have died of complications from drug and alcohol addiction, and Thomas has made it his life's work to help rehabilitate other brothers who were afflicted. Thomas said he woke up recently crying over his fun-loving brother Gregory, whose ashes were spread into the cold cement on a vacant corner of the West Side.
When the Thomas family convenes today, though, more often they laugh and shout in a cacophony of love. The clan gathered in the suburban living room of the Thomases' strong-willed 81-year-old matriarch, Mary, earlier this month to spin tales about their youngest brother, Isiah, whom they call Junior, interrupting each other and embellishing with the fervor of a preacher and his choir.
Larry Thomas recalled the day he saw Isiah rolling dice in his hand and walking down Madison Street in Larry's spiffy suit -- bought, Larry said, with money Larry had earned from pimping.
Isiah had been suspended from seventh grade for insubordination. "Junior, you're going the wrong way," Larry said.
Larry and the oldest Thomas brother, Lord Henry, had chosen their street life over basketball. "You're the last one, Junior; you got to take this ball, you got to take it to the N.B.A.," Larry recalled telling Isiah.
Thomas revered his older brother, and still does. He listened.
"Do you know what we call him?" Larry said. "The Deliverer." 
At every stop in his professional career, Thomas, 42, has defied expectations, especially as a 6-foot-1 point guard, and he has left a trail of paradoxes.
He was called the "smiling assassin" during his Bad Boys days with the Detroit Pistons. He has also been described as ambitious and power hungry, arrogant and warmhearted, defensive and innovative, mercurial and a commanding leader.
His brother-in-law Bruce Carlsen said that Thomas's perceived arrogance was also rooted in the West Side. The family, Carlsen said, knows the real Isiah.
"It was the defense mechanism for the elements that existed there," Carlsen said. "One of the reasons why people may not particularly care for him is because they know he's going to come right after them, between both eyes."

Controlling Emotions
Thomas won two championships in Detroit, resurrecting the franchise. He also orchestrated a jarring walk-off as the Bulls were beating the Pistons in the 1991 Eastern Conference finals: Thomas and other starters who were already on the bench left before time had run out.
He became part-owner and general manager of the Toronto Raptors, drafting Damon Stoudamire, Marcus Camby and Tracy McGrady. But he resigned after losing a power struggle over buying the team.
Thomas bought the struggling Continental Basketball Association and left it in bankruptcy to coach the young Indiana Pacers. After three seasons with the Pacers, he was fired by his old rival Larry Bird in August.
"What I've always found myself fighting against was that being from the West Side of Chicago, people did not expect nor did they accept someone like myself," he said. "They told me, 'There's got to be something behind you.' "
Competitors and colleagues wonder what lies behind his charming smile; some think they know.
"He kind of wears a mask," Jerry West, the Memphis Grizzlies' president, said. "He doesn't get too high or doesn't get too low, and I think that's a really great quality. Behind the exterior, you know what he wants. That's what keeps him working, keeps him competitive."
When Thomas was 12 and shining shoes at a pool hall, a man burst into the room, seeking retribution for the rape of his sister. Thomas happened to be at the door, so someone put a gun to his head.
He kept quiet and lived.
The West Side taught him how to hide his emotions and gauge his opponents, especially when hustling at pool, dice or hoops. "We were very entrepreneurial," Thomas said. "It was still marketing, distribution and accounting."
He added: "The way I learned the game of basketball, I didn't learn X's and O's. The game was about people and about moving people on the court and making a person feel what you wanted him to feel. And if you could control their emotions, you could beat them."
Thomas emulated his brothers' moves and learned to shoot in the dark at the court in Gladys Park. Usually, his mother was still working as a cook at Our Lady of Sorrows.
The brothers remember fights their father, Isiah Lord Thomas II, had with their mother and that he left the household when Isiah was 6. Bursting with ideas, his father was adamant about education and wanted his family to be like the Kennedys, Thomas recalled.
Mary Thomas worked various jobs and moved her family of nine children often, to stay ahead of rent collectors. Many days all she could provide were beans and cornbread, but the neighborhood flocked to the Thomas house, filling it with strangers and even gang leaders.
"All we had when we were growing up was each other and basketball," said another brother Mark, who has been a police officer on the West Side for 24 years. "When we realized that Isiah could really play this game, that's when it really turned serious. We told him, 'You are probably going to be the driving force to move us from point A to point B.' "
Point B is Clarendon Hills, a Chicago suburb, and the ranch house that Isiah bought for his mother after signing his first contract with the Pistons in 1981.
They were the first black family on the block. Mary, or Dear, as her children call her, held a barbecue in the huge backyard to embrace the neighbors, a tradition she continued with Thomas's teammates and other celebrities.
When Thomas got the call from the Knicks on Dec. 19 to come for an interview, he was with his mother as she was getting a pedicure. He had given Mary a spa day, but it was Thomas who had been rejuvenated.
Gene Pingatore, Thomas's high school coach at St. Joseph's in Westchester, Ill., was not surprised by his immediate impact on the Knicks.
"He takes over a game the same way he would take over an organization," Pingatore said.
At St. Joseph's, Thomas learned to be a star in two worlds, first by outrunning everyone. When he got off the bus after his 90-minute commute every morning, Thomas would be chased by local boys because he was black. When he got home, Thomas ran past the gangs.

Fulfilling Promises
Thomas promised his family he would make St. Joseph's the first Catholic school to go to the Illinois state tournament. He delivered, but the team could not win a title, losing in the finals his junior year and being upset in the quarterfinals his senior year.
At Indiana University, Thomas finally won his championship, in his sophomore season. Then he left for the N.B.A. The Thomas family's first encounter with Bob Knight, his coach at Indiana, is now Chicago legend. Knight arrived at the Thomas house to find most of the neighborhood and every sibling inside.
They turned the visit into an interview of Knight. Gregory, who was known as Gay-Gay and who had been drinking, objected to one of Knight's answers and the two nearly came to blows.
"To his credit, he kind of downplayed it," Thomas said of Knight. "My family would come to games, my brother Gay-Gay. The people at Indiana, and Coach Knight in particular, never made me feel ashamed or embarrassed about what was taking place."
Instead, Thomas believes his brothers are champions.
"Isiah devoted most of his life and a lot of his money to making sure his brothers were clean and sober," his sister Ruby said. "He's very proud and it's taken a long time, but he did it."
Thomas has always had a bold vision, but there are those, especially in the C.B.A., who thought they had been hustled.
"Isiah's an absolute master at public relations," said Clay Moser, president of the Great Lakes Storm, who was Thomas's regional director after Thomas bought the league from individual owners.
"Almost every time he sat in front of the ownership group prior to owning the league, he had a great presence. He was very charming and I remember when he left there was a buzz in the room."
But Moser said Thomas was not an approachable chief executive or well-versed in the business operations of the franchises.
With the Knicks, Thomas has begun redefining his predecessors' idea of character. He explained why he would consider pursuing troubled players like Rasheed Wallace, Eddie Griffin or Leon Smith.
"One of the values of character is courage, the courage to overcome failures in life like my brothers have," Thomas said.
New York, with its grand ambitions and challenges, might seem like the perfect place for Thomas. He has another view.
"I think the perfect place for me, no matter what city I'm in, it will always be in the living room, with my coach, brothers, sisters, my family, just listening to them talk," Thomas said. "That's the place I long to be every day."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Money was tight for Isiah Thomas and his family, and they moved a number of times when he was growing up on the West Side of Chicago. Al's Polish Sausage was one of Thomas's hangouts after pickup basketball games. (Photographs by Peter Thompson for The New York Times); Isiah Thomas, in 1979, still relies on the support of his mother, Mary. (Photo by Perry Riddle/Chicago Sun-Times)(pg. D4); Isiah Thomas's 81-year-old mother, Mary, with two of her other sons, Larry, left, and Mark, at her home in Clarendon Hills, Ill., earlier this month. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); GANGS (76%); ATHLETES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); CATS (71%); TRENDS (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%); SUBURBS (50%) Basketball; Economic Conditions and Trends; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (83%) New York Knickerbockers

PERSON: Liz Robbins; Isiah Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



697 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 848 words

PERSON: Peter C. Harvey 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Demanding Respect, and Looking Up to Moses

BYLINE:  By CHRIS HEDGES

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
IF you look hard at Peter C. Harvey, the first African-American to serve as attorney general of New Jersey, you can see his preacher father. Not the one who presided over long Baptist church meetings and services, not the one who made weekly visits to sick parishioners, not the one who thundered from the pulpit, but the one who believed that life was about struggle, about making the world a place where those who were different were not just tolerated, but respected.
 "I don't like the word toleration," Mr. Harvey said. "I don't want to be tolerated. Toleration implies that you are unwanted but we will put up with you. I want to be respected." 
 It is the importance of respect that he says pushed him to support Gov. James E. McGreevey's gay domestic partnership law, one of the most liberal in the nation. The law gives gay couples a host of new rights, including financial benefits and hospital visiting privileges. 
"The domestic partnership law provides a lot of benefits to people who are seeking human dignity and respect," Mr. Harvey said. "If you set aside the sexual preference issue, there are a lot of elderly people who for economic reasons live together. This is very common in the South. People live together by necessity. This law will give all these people some legal protection."
Mr. Harvey, 45, the youngest of three siblings, grew up in the largely black city of Tuskegee, Ala. He was in private practice in Morristown, N.J., before being appointed attorney general, and had worked in the United States attorney's office in Newark and in the attorney general's office as a special assistant. He keeps a book with photos from Tuskegee close to his desk, and as he flips through the pages he begins a tour of his hometown, including the nursing school named after his mother, who was its dean for years.
The Harvey family lived across the street from his father's church, and young Peter's bedroom looked out on the lighted cross built into its brick. "Maybe it was an omen," he said. "I was a bit of a knucklehead as a kid."
As a preacher's son he had to spend hours every week in church, but he regularly slipped out the back on Sunday afternoons to watch football.
"As I grew I began to avoid church like the plague. Alabama was in the Central time zone, so when church was over at 12:30, the East Coast football games had already begun. I would race back across the street with my friends to watch the games."
HE grew up in a world where African-Americans were a majority, making up about 80 percent of Tuskegee's population. It was, for him, a blessing. 
"I could go for several days without seeing a white person," Mr. Harvey said. "All the professionals were black, the doctors, the lawyers, the dentists, the accountants. Tuskegee produces a sense of self and confidence. You are evaluated based upon what you do. You have a chance to succeed or fail based upon talent, not color. When I came home from school with a bad grade, I couldn't tell my parents it was because the teacher did not like me because I was black."
His house, like many in the South, was a beehive of activity during the civil rights movement. After all, he noted, "ministers were about the only black people who could not be fired."
"They had the freedom to lead the civil rights movement." he said. "A businessman would be denied loans and work and be destroyed."
The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. visited his home, although Mr. Harvey says he has no memory of meeting him. But as much as the church, Tuskegee and the civil rights movement left heavy imprints, so did a severe stroke his mother suffered when he was 13.
"It was terrifying," he said. "I thought I would lose my mother. I suddenly had to learn to do things around the house, to cook and clean for myself, to do laundry. I wondered why me, why my mom, although it turned out she outlived my father."
The stroke taught Mr. Harvey an important lesson, one he says he tries to apply at home with his wife, Tammy, and their three children.
"I realized that there were things in life I would never know or understand," he said. "I realized that there was a higher power that decides certain things. This does not eliminate free will, but there are circumstances that free will cannot control. I also learned that we have to count the blessings we have -- the simple things we take for granted until they are lost. I do not do this as much as I should, but I try."
He began to speak of Moses -- not the way a graduate of Morgan State University and Columbia Law School and the chief law enforcement official in the state might be expected to, but as a Baptist pastor would. It is Moses, he said, along with Paul Robeson, whom he most admires.
"Moses had the courage to listen to God," Mr. Harvey said. "He trusted God. He did something extraordinary for his people even though he did not reap the benefits. The story of Moses is a story of someone who has a life of privilege but who casts his lot with the common man and woman. It is the story of someone who engages the powerful in a discussion of freedom and who ultimately achieves it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: PETER C. HARVEY (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); COHABITATION (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); NURSES & NURSING (67%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (63%); SENIOR CITIZENS (51%) Marriages; Blacks; Homosexuality; Attorneys General; Biographical Information; Law and Legislation 

Chris Hedges; Peter C (Atty Gen) Harvey

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004 



698 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
O.K., Sharp Film Critic, Not-So-Shrewd Investor

BYLINE:  By ALLAN SLOAN; Allan Sloan is Wall Street editor of Newsweek.

 BODY:
AMERICAN SUCKER
By David Denby
337 pages. Little, Brown & Company. $24.95.
 David Denby's memoir, "American Sucker," shows that timing is everything. Mr. Denby bet everything on tech stocks in early 2000, in reaction to the breakup of his marriage. Had his wife left him in 1998 instead, his memoir might have been called "American Stock-Picking Genius" because the stock bubble had two years left to run. Mr. Denby entered the tech stock casino at the worst possible time: January 2000, just as the market was peaking. 
 Mr. Denby, a movie critic at The New Yorker, plunged into tech stocks, he says, so he could buy out his wife's half of their Upper West Side apartment. That way he wouldn't have to move. But after three years of heavy losses he gave up and sold the apartment.
His memoir is part of a new genre: writers discussing their Internet boom experience. In previous booms, like junk bonds and biotech, writers weren't involved. But the Internet bubble was pervasive in New York and influenced journalism by helping many writers get high-paying new jobs, if only briefly. 
Because many New Yorkers benefited from the boom, writers felt surrounded by people who were suddenly worth millions on paper. Some entrepreneurial journalists made paper millions, too. For many decidedly not entrepreneurial writers who consider themselves at least as smart as their subjects and acquaintances, this produced a classic case of can't-stand-it-itis: they couldn't stand seeing people no better than themselves getting so rich. "Where was it decreed -- on what tablet was it inscribed? -- that writers should not get rich, too?" Mr. Denby writes. Indeed.
Despite its title, however, "American Sucker" isn't about investing or the stock market. It's about Mr. Denby's midlife crisis and his sudden urge to make a lot of money quickly, combining his lifetime savings with $325,000 he inherited from his mother. The stock market is merely the theme that ties this memoir together. But there are investment lessons here nevertheless. The book not only tells us more about Mr. Denby than many of us want to know -- do we really care about his flirtation with pornography or how he forgot his suit in the closet of a married (now former) paramour? -- but it also shows us the difference between being smart and being a smart investor.
Even if you haven't read Mr. Denby's movie reviews, you can see from this book that he is formidably smart. His writing is clear, and his allusions range from Alexander Pope to Edith Wharton to Thorstein Veblen. Mr. Denby is even smart enough to realize how paradoxical it is that he not only has a good, prestigious job, but that he is also in a position to make money by relating how he lost money in the stock market.
The smart writer is not a smart investor, however. He's emotional. He's irrational. He confuses what he desperately wants -- to make money to validate his investment manhood -- with the market, which doesn't care what you paid for your stock or whether you live or die. He tunes out the news he doesn't want to hear about stocks being overpriced -- advice from a New Yorker colleague, from the head of the Securities and Exchange Commission, from newspaper articles -- and seizes on optimism, be it babble on CNBC or passing remarks he hears at his local newsstand. 
Making yet another classic mistake, Mr. Denby confused access with insight. He established relationships with Henry Blodget, the former Merrill Lynch Internet analyst, now disgraced, and with Samuel D. Waksal, the former chief executive of ImClone Systems, now imprisoned. Mr. Denby thought this offered him insights into the truth. Instead all he got was nonsense, but from high-level sources. Mr. Denby also falls for the pap being peddled by George Gilder, a telecom mega-bull. That's because these guys all told him what he wanted to hear. 
"I listened to those I wanted to listen to," he writes. "I wasn't lazy, exactly, but I thought the study of fundamentals was a waste of time."
Mr. Denby would never have reviewed movies this way, but he invested this way, and he paid for it.
In his last "quarterly report," dated Oct. 1, 2002, Mr. Denby puts his losses at $900,000. But later in the chapter it turns out that's not how much money Mr. Denby and his wife were out of pocket; it's how much their portfolio had fallen since its peak. Mr. Denby says his portfolio was worth about what he and his wife had originally put into the market. So it's not as if he lost money. He failed to cash in his gains, which isn't the same thing.
As the value of Mr. Denby's stock portfolio fell throughout his 33-month odyssey, the value of his apartmentseems to have kept on rising. Many of us who warned that the stock market was a bubble a few years ago now feel the same way about Manhattan apartments and other high-priced real estate, whose price has been enhanced by artificially low mortgage rates. At least Mr. Denby managed to sell his apartment at close to its peak value.
The stock cycle even turned, just about the time Mr. Denby gave up. After falling 78 percent from its peak in 2000 to its low in October 2002, the Nasdaq market is roaring again, up 50 percent last year. The consulting company Ibbotson Associates says the smallest 20 percent of stocks, rated by market value, rose an astounding 60 percent last year. That's the most speculative part of the market.
So while Mr. Denby may have stopped being an American sucker, have no fear. To paraphrase P. T. Barnum, there's a new sucker born every minute. And quicker than that when the stock market's booming.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Denby (Photo by Jill Krementz/Little, Brown & Company) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PORNOGRAPHY (67%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



699 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: LETTER FROM AFRICA; 
America Tugs at French-Accented Lands: It's Not Peanuts

BYLINE:  By Somini Sengupta

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
This was once the portal to the French Empire on the African continent.
 From here, Paris administered the vast territory known as Afrique Occidentale Francaise, stretching east across the arid savannas to what is now Chad and south along the lush coast to the present-day Congo Republic. 
 Downtown Dakar bears the 19th-century French stamp, from the shuttered windows of its colonial-era buildings to its perennially jammed main commercial street, named after Georges Pompidou. Senegalese men once fought in the French military. The Dakaroise were once French citizens by birth. 
Even after independence, in 1960, the French stayed on, pouring aid, installing bureaucrats in virtually every important government ministry, maintaining a military base here with a view of the Atlantic. French companies still run Dakar's telephone company and water service. From the Peugeots on the street to the Pouilly Fumes on the hypermarche shelves, a quarter of all imports to Senegal come from France; 20,000 French citizens live here. 
With the advent of the campaign against terrorism, though, things began to change. Africa once again figured in Washington's strategic thinking, and there was something to be gained for an overwhelmingly Muslim country by cozying up to the Americans and, not coincidentally, threatening the French with a loss of influence. 
These days, because of a swirl of additional circumstances ranging from a drop in French foreign aid to bitterness over French immigration policy to the power of American hip-hop to a variety of slights and perceived slights, Senegal is marching headlong into the arms of a new empire run out of Washington.
This is by no means a line in the sand, ending French influence here. It's more as if the dunes are shifting, slowly but perceptibly. France remains the biggest donor and trade partner, but Senegal's relations with the United States have already created some Paris-Dakar frisson. 
Publicly, both sides say all is well. Africa-watchers are fond of likening it to a difficult moment in the life of an old couple, a love-hate dialectic born of an intimate familiarity. 
"It's a period of friction," said Mamadou Diouf, a historian at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor and Senegalese by origin, "where two partners are trying to adjust to a new moment." 
The "moment" that Mr. Diouf refers to has as much to do with the global primacy of American power as the diminution of French power in the shadow of a united Europe. Complicating matters, just as the former colonies on the continent still need France, France still needs its former colonies: French influence in Africa allows it to punch above its weight in the world. 
Influence, of course, comes at a price. And the price of supporting a swath of destitute countries in Africa has lately proved to be too much. French aid to its former colonies has plummeted. In Senegal alone, the number of French "technical experts" assigned to work in government ministries has fallen to 124 in 2003 from 750 a decade ago.
The signs of shift are small and subtle, based as much on assumptions and perceptions as anything else. Among ordinary Senegalese, the resentment against all things French is based on the one thing they know best: the difficulties of getting a visa to study or work in France. (They have not had as much experience with the American immigration bureaucracy.)
For strivers, New York is now the promised land. For the elite, a degree from Harvard is more fashionable than one from the the Sorbonne. The cabinet of President Abdoulaye Wade is sprinkled with people who have studied or worked in the States. English is now de rigeur. And ardor for all things American is exploited by marketers: ads for American Cola (endorsed by a Senegalese wrestler who calls himself Tyson) and Houston brand cigarettes plaster Dakar. 
Mr. Wade's government has unabashedly sought to strengthen ties with Washington in recent years. Senegal has vowed to fight against terrorism. It has signed an agreement, sought by the Bush administration, promising to exempt American citizens from prosecution by the International Criminal Court. It has kept quiet on the war in Iraq. 
An African diplomat said he sensed "an openness to the world outside the Francophone world" since Mr. Wade's election in 2000, and particularly since the Sept. 11 attacks. "I think Wade is playing that quite intelligently" the diplomat said. "He's very shrewd with the U.S. in particular. He realizes it's the only way to diminish the influence of France."
A French diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, said his country was hardly threatened by Dakar's efforts to make new friends.
"We have long regretted that the United States has done so little for the African continent, and we rejoice, seeing that that great country is trying to turn its words into deeds," the diplomat said. Feeling less charitable, the diplomat wondered how long it would take for the United States to reach the level of French aid and trade with Senegal: nearly $60 million in development and military assistance in 2003.
What Senegal will receive in exchange for cozying up to the United States remains to be seen. Military and economic aid has been modest, so far. American companies aren't exactly rushing to do business here. Senegal produces peanuts, not oil. 
Senegal stands to gain its biggest reward later this year, when the Bush administration announces the recipients of its new $650 million development aid program called the Millenium Challenge Account. Senegal was the only country to receive a planning grant on how it would use the funds. 
Still, Senegal knows it cannot afford to oust the French, said one member of the Wade government, but is seeking a way to escape exclusive French control. "The only question is, 'Will France accept Senegal's being more independent?' " he wondered aloud. "We don't know. But they have no choice. Senegal in 2004 is not the same Senegal as in 1960. The world has changed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traces of Americana are increasingly visible in Dakar, Senegal. As the political sands shift in West Africa's former French colonies, the pull of Paris seems to weaken, and the attraction to things American, like hip-hop, grows. (Photo by Essential Action) Map of Senegal shows the location of Dakar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (74%); HISTORY (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); IMMIGRATION (65%); TERRORISM (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAKAR, SENEGAL (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) AFRICA (98%); SENEGAL (97%); FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



700 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: A Turkish Success Story 

 BODY:
Turkey is changing in surprising and encouraging ways, setting a constructive example for the entire Muslim Middle East. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, an Islamic politician who favors democratic pluralism, it has enacted far-reaching reforms that are intended to meet the exacting admissions criteria of the European Union. 
 Mr. Erdogan, who visits the White House today, is a strongly pro-Western leader who worked hard to repair the breach that opened between Washington and Ankara over the Iraq war, which Turkish public opinion strongly opposed. The Bush administration clearly appreciates those efforts, as the high-level reception awaiting Mr. Erdogan in Washington shows. But the administration can do more, especially on the tangled issue of Cyprus, divided between Greek and Turkish Cypriot sectors. Winning E.U. approval for Turkey's candidacy later this year probably depends on a resolution of this issue. 
 Mr. Erdogan is now promoting a compromise plan that could reunify the island after 30 years of enforced division. Washington's influence can help clinch a deal by this spring. Failure to make that deadline will solidify Cyprus's division, with just the Greek Cypriot portion of the island joining the E.U. on May 1. That, in turn, could delay Turkey's pending admission to the E.U. for years. 
Last spring, the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, came close to brokering a Cyprus settlement. Many ordinary Greek and Turkish Cypriots supported Mr. Annan's efforts. So did Mr. Erdogan. But the plan collapsed when political leaders on both sides of the island refused to submit the plan to popular referendums. The stronger objections came from Rauf Denktash, the long-serving Turkish Cypriot political leader. After elections in the Turkish part of the island last month weakened the grip of Mr. Denktash's party, Mr. Erdogan sought to revive the Annan peace plan. 
That will require agreement by Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot leaders to let Mr. Annan fill in the remaining details and submit the plan to popular referendums before May 1. Mr. Erdogan favors this approach and must press Mr. Denktash not to stand in the way. Washington can help by urging Greek Cypriot leaders to accept this accelerated procedure and reminding Turkish generals, who have provided the military muscle for Mr. Denktash's obstructionism, that Turkey's broader interest in joining the E.U. requires a Cyprus compromise. 
Turkey's generals claim to be strong defenders of Turkey's pro-Western orientation. By standing behind Mr. Erdogan's Cyprus diplomacy, they can advance Turkey's E.U. candidacy. They should also give strong backing to Mr. Erdogan's efforts to move closer to Western-style democracy. America has a strong interest in Mr. Erdogan's success. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (70%); APPROVALS (69%); REFERENDUMS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CYPRUS (95%); TURKEY (94%); EUROPE (92%); GREECE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



701 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Powell Seeks to Reassure Russians on New Troops 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell sought to assure Russians on Tuesday that despite American plans to redeploy some troops to former Soviet bloc nations in Eastern Europe, the United States had no intention of encircling or threatening their country.
 Interviewed on a Moscow radio station, Mr. Powell said that while the level of American forces in Europe was falling to fewer than 100,000 from more than 300,000, the Bush administration has been looking at the possibility of putting "temporary facilities" in Eastern Europe for training or use as air bases. Forces based in these areas might be sent in emergencies to the Persian Gulf, the Middle East and Central Asia, he said. 
 "It is not essentially moving our army closer to the Russian federation, and people should not see it in that light," Mr. Powell said on the popular independent radio station Ekho Moskvy. "The number of troops over all will be going down. Therefore we are not trying to surround anyone."
But Mr. Powell's comments appeared to reflect a sense that many Russians, though perhaps not many Russian leaders, did indeed see American moves "in that light." For three days, first in the nation of Georgia and then in the Russian capital, Mr. Powell has been trying to allay such suspicions.
Since the end of the cold war, Russians have objected generally to the eastward march of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization but have yielded with each expansion after tough discussions with the United States and its European allies. American officials say they do not expect significant opposition from the Kremlin to the establishment of American bases in former Soviet satellites like Poland, Romania or Bulgaria.
More problematic, however, is the American military presence on the southern border of Russia, particularly in Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan, where the United States has access to Soviet-era bases it refurbished to support the war in Afghanistan. There is also a small American military contingent in Georgia to conduct counterterrorism training, but Mr. Powell promised this week that this limited force would soon depart.
The secretary flew back to Washington on Tuesday afternoon after an arduous two days of private and public diplomacy. He mixed in with the ritual expressions of friendship a surprising critique on a variety of matters, from concerns about the health of Russia's democracy to its campaign against rebels in Chechnya.
In his radio interview and later at a meeting with civic leaders at the American Embassy, Mr. Powell said he had received assurances from the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, that the charges against Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, a prominent businessman arrested last year, would be fully explained and that his trial would be open.
The treatment of Mr. Khodorkovsky, including the seizure of his company's assets, has roiled the investment community in Russia and raised widespread doubts about whether Mr. Putin's government will tolerate dissent or independent sources of wealth. Mr. Khodorkovsky has been a critic of the Putin government.
Meanwhile, Mr. Powell said the United States had no intention of expelling Russia from the Group of 8 industrial nations, known as the G-8, which confers annually and coordinates economic plans.
Some American lawmakers and Democratic presidential candidates have called for Mr. Putin to be disinvited from the next G-8 summit in Sea Island, Ga., in the late spring, because of the Khodorkovsky arrest and the suppression of criticism in the Russian news media during recent parliamentary elections.
The secretary also repeated his concern over the war with separatist rebels in Chechnya, saying that although the matter was an internal affair, Russia had an international obligation to exercise restraint in conformance with human rights norms.
For all these criticisms, Mr. Powell dismissed the idea that Russian-American relations were headed toward a new freeze or that Russian democracy was in danger. "The cold war is over," he said. "The Iron Curtain is down. Russia and the United States are now friends. We should not see such things in cold war terms." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MILITARY BASES (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) INDIAN OCEAN (57%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); GEORGIA (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); BULGARIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); ROMANIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



702 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Offers Are Said to Flow In For Assets of USAirways 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Several airlines, large and small, have made offers for the major assets of US Airways, including its East Coast shuttle and gates at several airports, people briefed on the negotiations said last night.
 American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, JetBlue Airways and AirTran made preliminary bids last week in a process led by Morgan Stanley, these people said. Mesa Air Lines, a regional carrier serving the West Coast, has also said it is interested in bidding on US Airways' assets. 
The board of US Airways is set to consider the offers at a meeting early next month. 
The airline, a unit of the US Airways Group, based in Arlington Va., emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection less than a year ago. But US Airways, the nation's seventh-largest carrier, has been struggling since. It is pressing its unions for further concessions as it tries to cut more than the $200 million to $300 million it had planned to trim from its operations this year.
Late last year, it said that it had to revise its business plan to meet stiffened competition from low-fare carriers including Southwest Airlines, which plans to start service in May to Philadelphia, one of US Airways' three hubs. 
US Airways operations in Philadelphia are among the operations the airline put up for sale, as well as its other hubs in Charlotte, N.C., and Pittsburgh; gates at La Guardia Airport and Logan Airport in Boston; its US Airways Express regionalcarrier; and its East Coast shuttle.
The shuttle was thought to have attracted the most interest among a group of carriers that made offers for the airline's assets, people briefed on the bids said. 
US Airways has never said definitively what it would sell. And, earlier this month, David G. Bronner, the airline's chairman, said that US Airways had retained Morgan Stanley "to help us see if anything makes sense."
Indeed, the bids may not necessarily be to US Airways' liking. For instance, the US Airways Shuttle was only expected to bring $100 million to $150 million, people briefed on the offers said, versus the $300 million bid that American made to purchase the shuttle in 1997. 
US Airways has operated the shuttle since 1992, as part of a joint venture that ran the carrier, and took control of it in 1998.
Moreover, some of the airlines involved may encounter obstacles to completing the deals. For instance, while American, a unit of AMR, has been interested in buying the shuttle for years, it may have trouble winning the backing of its labor unions, which granted the airline deep cuts in wages and benefits last year when American said it was on the verge of Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
American or any other airline that purchases the shuttle would have to absorb US Airways' union members, who have vowed that a new buyer must honor their labor contracts. That could lead to sticky situations involving the seniority of pilots, flight attendants and other employees.
Robert W. Mann Jr., an industry consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y., saw two strategies in US Airways' efforts to find buyers for its assets. First, Mr. Mann said, the airline most likely wanted to put pressure on its labor unions, which granted the airline two sets of contract concessions in bankruptcy, but thus far have resisted any further cuts. 
Since the assets were put up for sale in early January, US Airways' pilots agreed to hold discussions with the airline on its financial problems, although the pilots' union said the meetings were not formal contract talks.
Mr. Mann also said the company was most likely curious to see what its assets might bring in the industry's difficult economic climate. "It's almost as if they were dribbling out a little bit of honey to see whether any bees would arrive," Mr. Mann said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (92%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (88%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); JOINT VENTURES (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (98%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); MESA AIR GROUP INC (57%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES INC (DAL); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (JBLU) 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (98%); DAL (NYSE) (91%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%); MS (NYSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (98%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (98%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



703 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Rises, At Its Highest Since July 2002 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Consumer confidence in the economy rose this month to the highest level since July 2002 as Americans grew more optimistic about their prospects later this year, a private research group reported yesterday.
 The group, the Conference Board in New York, said its index of consumer confidence rose to 96.8 this month from a revised 91.7 in December. The percentage of people who expected better business conditions and more hiring in six months also rose, the group said. 
 Assessments of current economic conditions were not as strong because the economy is having trouble creating jobs. Federal Reserve policy makers, meeting yesterday and today, will probably keep the benchmark interest rate at the lowest since 1958 until job growth improves, a survey of economists showed.
 "People are more optimistic but the consumer is still worried about their job situation," a Conference Board economist, Delos Smith, said. "Jobs, jobs, jobs is everybody's concern."
 Economists had forecast a jump in the sentiment index to 98.5 in January from 91.3 last month. The last time the index was this high was in July 2002, when it was 97.4.
 The index measuring sentiment about the economy rose to 80, from 74.3 in December, restrained by labor market worries, the Conference Board said. The number of people who thought jobs were easy to obtain fell 0.2 percentage points, to 12.4 percent, and the number who said jobs were not plentiful now rose to 56.2 percent, from 55 percent.
 The expectations index rose to 108.1, the highest since May 2002, from 103.3 and lifted the overall index.
 The rise in expectations is "consistent, if maintained, with real consumers' spending rising at a year-over-year pace of about 5 percent," said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y.
 Twenty-two percent said business conditions were good, up from 18.6 percent in December, while those who considered business conditions as bad fell to 22.8 percent, from 24.5 percent.
 The gauge of people who said jobs would become easier to find by July rose to 22.2 in January, from 21.6, and the percentage who said jobs would be harder to find fell to 14.9, from 16.9. The percentage expecting their incomes to decline fell to 8.8, from 10.2, the Conference Board found.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Confidence"Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100. Jan.: 96.8Dec.: 91.7Nov.: 92.5 Graph tracks index measuring attitudes toward the economy from August 2002 to January 2004. (Source by The Conference Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); INTEREST RATES (55%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



704 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Retreat on Concern Over Steepness of Recent Gains

BYLINE:  By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday as weakness in computer semiconductor makers weighed on the market and investors locked in gains from Monday's rally.
 The corporate earnings season is at its busiest and the results have generally been strong. But some analysts have expressed concern that stock prices, which have largely risen since April 2003, mayhave gotten ahead of themselves. 
 "I think it's just simply giving back some of those gains," said Rick Meckler, president of LibertyView Capital Management. "This is pretty much a market that's been on a straight climb for the last several months, and I just think it's very difficult to maintain that type of momentum. 
 Weakness in technology dragged down the Nasdaq market after Novellus Systems, a producer of chip-making equipment, forecast earnings at the lower end of analysts' estimates. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange semiconductor index dropped 4 percent.
 The Nasdaq composite index fell 37.79 points, or 1.75 percent, to 2,116.04. The Dow Jones industrial average, a dollar-weighted index of 30 blue-chip stocks, declined 92.59 points, or 0.87 percent, to 10,609.92. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 11.32 points, or 0.98 percent, to 1,144.05.
 Volume was heavy with 1.68 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, up from 1.48 billion on Monday. On the New York Stock Exchange, declining issues outnumbered those advancing by a margin of about 4 to 3.
 Traders said new declines in the value of the dollar also weighed on the market. The dollar touched a three-year low against the yen, which settled at 105.62, compared with 106.31 on Monday. The euro resumed its rise, settling at $1.2633, up from $1.2467. The British pound rose to $1.8258 from $1.8119 on Monday.
 The Conference Board, a private research group, reported that its index of consumer confidence rose in January, though the increase was less than economists had forecast. The number of people saying that jobs were hard to find was greater than a year ago, and those saying that jobs were plentiful also declined.
 Shares of Novellus dropped $5.85, or 14.5 percent, to $34.40, on volume of more than 38 million shares. Late Monday, it warned that business conditions could weaken this quarter. 
 Texas Instruments, a major chip producer, reported a fourth-quarter profit after the market closed on Monday and forecast revenue this quarter above analysts' estimates. But its shares, fell $1.49, or 4.7 percent, to $30.50.
 Some other chip companies were mixed. Intel, the industry leader, lost 80 cents, closing at $31.63. But Micron Technology rose 71 cents, to $15.71, after a UBS analyst recommended its purchase, seeing a bottom in computer memory prices. 
 Cisco Systems fell 70 cents, to $27.50, and Microsoft lost 55 cents, closing at $28.25. 
 Among heavy-industry stocks, Caterpillar dropped despite a 14 percent rise in fourth-quarter earnings and a strong forecast. Analysts focused on Caterpillar's operating profit margin, which narrowed. The shares fell $3.01, to $82.
 SBC Communications, the No.2 regional telephone company in the United States, fell after reporting that its fourth-quarter earnings dropped 62 percent amid shrinking sales of phone access lines as well as one-time charges. SBC lost 74 cents, closing at $25.95.
 The Federal Reserve began a two-day meeting on interest rates yesterday and is expected to issue a statement today. Wall Street expects the Fed to keep the benchmark short-term rate unchanged.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Advance
By Bloomberg News
 Treasury prices rose in New York after a measure of consumer confidence increased less than forecast this month, bolstering speculation the Federal Reserve would refrain from raising interest rates before midyear.
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was up 15/32, to 100 30/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 4.08 percent from 4.13 percent late Monday.
 The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.933
High Rate: 0.860
Coupon Yield: 0.876
Low Rate: 0.830
Median Rate: 0.850
Total applied for: $35,404,744
Accepted: $17,357,184
Noncompetitive: $37,137

The four-week bills mature Feb. 26, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph tracks yields of selected Treasury securities from one month ago and yesterday. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); MEMORY CHIPS (74%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (68%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (64%); BRITISH POUND (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (56%); INTEL CORP (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (56%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



705 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Times Co. and Dow Jones Exceed Earnings Forecasts 

BYLINE:  By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
Buoyed by a brightening advertising climate during the holiday season, The New York Times Company and Dow Jones & Company reported increases in fourth-quarter earnings yesterday that exceeded analysts' expectations. But both companies cautioned that it was too soon to conclude how much of that advertising rebound, if any, would continue in the current quarter. 
 The Times Company posted net income of $110.9 million, or 73 cents a share, in the most recent quarter, up 3.1 percent from the fourth quarter of 2002, when it reported profit of $107.5 million, or 69 cents a share. Revenue at the Times Company rose 5 percent in the latest quarter, to $882.3 million, from $840.2 million a year earlier. In addition to The New York Times, the company owns 18 other newspapers (including The Boston Globe and The International Herald Tribune) and 8 network-affiliated television stations. 
 Dow Jones -- which publishes The Wall Street Journal as well as Barron's, The Far Eastern Economic Review and the 32 community newspapers in the Ottaway group -- reported net income of $44.3 million, or 54 cents a share. That represents an almost threefold increase from the period a year earlier, when it reported net income of $15.2 million, or 18 cents a share.
 Excluding special items, earnings were $35 million, or 43 cents a share, in the fourth quarter, compared with $28.2 million, or 34 cents a share, for the fourth quarter of 2002. 
 Revenue at Dow Jones rose 6 percent, to $420.7 million, from $396.9 million. 
 The results at both companies -- as well as those reported in recent days by other newspaper companies, including Knight Ridder and E.W. Scripps -- reflect an upturn in some advertising categories, especially in December, said Paul Ginocchio, an analyst at Deutsche Bank.
 "The New York Times benefited in the fourth quarter from the trends at higher-end retailers -- Neiman Marcus, Saks, Nordstrom -- that's why they delivered better," Mr. Ginocchio said. "The improved profitability of technology firms, and the pickup in corporate activity, particularly mergers and acquisitions, has led to a rebound in advertising at Dow Jones."
 If there was an ominous trend in the Times Company's report, it was that help-wanted advertising has yet to bounce back at its flagship paper. The company said such advertising was down 17 percent in December. Christa Sober, vice president for equity research at Thomas Weisel Partners in San Francisco, said of the category, "Its persistent weakness has really caused overall results to be muted."
 The Times Company also said that it was moving forward with construction of its new headquarters on Eighth Avenue, a project that was delayed in the fall as the company's development partner, Forest City Ratner, sought financing. Leonard P. Forman, chief financial officer of the Times Company, said Forest City was "very close to signing" a "firm financing deal." The Times expects to move in 2007, Mr. Forman said.
 At DowJones, executives said advertising remained volatile.
 "Even within a month," Richard F. Zannino, chief operating officer of Dow Jones, said in a conference call with analysts, "we've seen ad buyers turn their spending spigots on -- as they did in September and December of 2003, where we came in north of our expectations -- and off, as they did in November."
 For these reasons, among others, Dow Jones said that it expected per-share earnings for the first quarter of the current year to be "in the mid- to upper teens," lower than what Wall Street had predicted. The company said that it preferred not to give guidance for the year until trends in advertising, among other areas, stabilized. 
 The Times, which did not provide guidance for the quarter, said it expected per-share earnings to rise "in the low- to mid-single digits" for the year.
 Dow Jones's shares closed at $49.59, down $1.88. Shares of the Times Company closed at $47.40, up 45 cents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (95%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); TRENDS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MERGERS (75%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (95%); DOW JONES & CO INC (94%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%); THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (51%); AQUANTIVE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: THE NEW YORK TIMES COMPANY; DOW JONES & CO (DJ) 

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (95%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (95%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (94%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



706 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
CITIGROUP ANNOUNCES MORE LAYOFFS AT A FORMER SEARS UNIT

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

 BODY:
 Citigroup plans to eliminate 847 jobs at a New Orleans credit card center purchased from Sears, Roebuck & Company and close the facility by October, a spokeswoman, Maria Mendler, said. 
The cuts are part of a plan to cut 3,400 jobs, or about 40 percent of 8,300 employees in the unit, Ms. Mendler said. Citigroup bought the Sears business in November for $3.4 billion. The company said last week that 930 workers at a Sears card center in Trevose, Pa., would be laid off. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); RETAILERS (59%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (94%); CITIGROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIGROUP INC (C); SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO (S) 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



707 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Alan Greenspan's Duty 

 BODY:
The cut-taxes-and-spend Bush administration and Republican leaders in Congress are engaging in serious economic malpractice. The latest evidence of this was provided on Monday by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, which now expects the federal deficit to amount to $477 billion this year. That's an alarming 4.2 percent of gross domestic product and $100 billion more than last year's deficit, and the agency expects the government's debt to increase by $1.9 trillion over the next decade. 
 Despite this warning from an office run by a conservative former White House economist, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, the administration remains in denial. Not only does President Bush insist -- as he did a trillion dollars of red ink ago -- that the deficit is manageable, but he also wants to make his tax cuts permanent, even though many of them were passed with an expiration date to keep their cost down. That would cost the Treasury an additional $2 trillion over the next decade, the budget office says. 
 President Bush and Republican Congressional leaders, who have backed both huge tax cuts and huge spending increases with little regard for the consequences, will be tempted to disregard the agency's report, as they have brushed off similar credible warnings. That is one reason Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, must insert himself into the debate. The Fed chairman is said to be extremely worried about Mr. Bush's deficits, and his ostensible independence is no excuse for remaining silent about one of the biggest looming threats to the American economy. The recent book about former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill makes it clear that Mr. Greenspan even had qualms about the extent of the administration's first round of tax cuts in early 2001. 
Mr. Greenspan can no longer keep his worries to himself. Whether he musters the full authority of his office to sound the alarm -- and urges the president and Congress to reconcile federal revenues and spending -- will help determine Mr. Greenspan's legacy as Fed chairman. He will have a good chance next month, when he is scheduled to testify before Congress on the state of the economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



708 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE OVERVIEW; 
KERRY BEATS DEAN IN NEW HAMPSHIRE FOR A 2ND VICTORY

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Wednesday, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts won the Democratic presidential primary here Tuesday, dealing Howard Dean his second overwhelming defeat in nine days in a state where his campaign had once been confident of victory.
 The back-to-back victories by Mr. Kerry in Iowa and New Hampshire completed a striking turnaround by the four-term senator from Massachusetts, whose beleaguered campaign just a month ago had been viewed by supporters and opponents alike as on the verge of extinction. 
 "I love New Hampshire -- and I love Iowa, too," an exultant Mr. Kerry said at a victory rally as supporters broke into shouts of "Bring it on," the campaign theme that came to symbolize Mr. Kerry's assertion that he was the strongest Democrat to take on Mr. Bush. 
"Thank you, New Hampshire, for lifting up this campaign and a cause of America that belongs not to the privileged, not to a few but belongs to all Americans, for all of the people," he said.
Senator John Edwards of North Carolina and Gen. Wesley K. Clark were virtually tied for a distant third place behind Dr. Dean. And Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut trailed in fifth place. The distant showings by Mr. Lieberman and General Clark suggested that the two men had miscalculated in skipping Iowa and investing most of their time and resources into campaigning in this state during January.
With 97 percent of election districts reporting at 12:20 a.m. today, Mr. Kerry had 39 percent of the vote to 26 percent for Dr. Dean, 12 percent for Mr. Clark, 12 percent for Mr. Edwards and 9 percent for Mr. Lieberman. Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio had 1 percent.
The campaign now turns into what is in effect a national primary next Tuesday, with contests in seven states stretching from South Carolina to New Mexico. Aides to Mr. Edwards, Mr. Clark and Mr. Lieberman said they believed that this was fertile territory for their relatively moderate appeal and vowed to offer Mr. Kerry a tough fight in the days ahead.
Dr. Dean, taking a page from presidential candidates from Eugene McCarthy to Bill Clinton, tried to portray his second-place showing as a win, noting that it had come just eight days after his third-place finish in Iowa. He, too, said he was confident that he could compete with Mr. Kerry, though his aides said they were looking to California and New York -- states that hold their votes on March 2 -- as a place where he would do well.
"Thank you -- my goodness!" a nearly sedate Dr. Dean said, wearing a suit and tie and glancing down at notes for a speech that stood in obvious contrast to the tempestuous concession speech he gave last Monday that contributed to the difficulties of his campaign.
"The people of New Hampshire have allowed our campaign to regain its momentum, and I am very grateful," Dr. Dean said. "And the people of New Hampshire have allowed all of you to hope again that we are going to have real change in America."
Even before the polls closed, Dr. Dean's campaign announced that he would visit nine cities in states where there are Democratic contests next Tuesday, signaling his intention to continue with a campaign that just a month ago was viewed by many Democrats as nearly unstoppable. But as Dr. Dean's opponents headed out for South Carolina and Missouri, he planned to return home to Vermont for a day to rest and regroup.
Indeed, by any measure, the results on Tuesday were a tremendous setback for a candidate who had appeared to rewrite the rules of politics with his reliance on the Internet and his appeal to new voters. He had all but moved into New Hampshire and Iowa for the past year, in hopes of replicating Jimmy Carter's strategy by which a little-known governor wins his party's nomination and becomes president of the United States.
The turn of events presents him with a distinct challenge as the campaign moves into a very different phase: From the living rooms and small settings of Iowa and New Hampshire where Dr. Dean had excelled to campaigns that will be fought out on the network news and with television commercials.
Cars and buses will be replaced by airplanes as the remaining candidates run simultaneous campaigns in South Carolina, Missouri, Delaware, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Arizona and North Dakota, competing for 269 delegates. The immediate focus of most of the candidates are South Carolina and Missouri, which sprung into play after Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri dropped out last week after his fourth-place showing in Iowa.
Aides to Mr. Gephardt said on Monday that he would not endorse anyone before the contest there.
Mr. Kerry's victory here Tuesday marked a vindication of the unusual approach his campaign took to try to resuscitate his candidacy. With polls showing that he was facing a crushing defeat in neighboring New Hampshire, Mr. Kerry flew halfway across the country in the calculation that a victory in Iowa -- among people who do not know him as well as his neighbors in New Hampshire -- would revive his hopes in New Hampshire.
Mr. Kerry is only the third Democrat in the 32 years of the modern presidential selection system, running in contested nominating battles, to have won both the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary. The first two were Jimmy Carter in 1980, who won his party's nomination but lost his bid for reelection, and Al Gore in 2000, who also won his party's nomination but lost the presidency.
All the candidates who by most definitions might be viewed as having lost Tuesday sought to put the best interpretation on the results. Mr. Lieberman, who came in fifth place -- thanked the New Hampshire voters for "putting me in the ring."
"Thanks to the people of New Hampshire, we are in a three-way split decision for third place," Mr. Lieberman said. (At one point, Mr. Lieberman referred to the former governor of Vermont as "John Dean," but quickly corrected himself.)
Mr. Edwards's showing came as a disappointment to the senator from North Carolina, coming a week after he placed second in Iowa last week. But his advisers noted that he had had less time here than he had in Iowa, where he had built up steam in the final days of that race, and that he was competing against two men -- Mr. Kerry of Massachusetts and Dr. Dean of Vermont -- from neighboring states.
"Look at what we've done -- this moment is extraordinary," Mr. Edwards said to supporters here tonight. "And now we're going to take this energy and momentum that we saw in Iowa, this extraordinary energy and momentum that we have seen in New Hampshire, and we're going to take it right through February 3rd."
The results emerged as a particular disappointment for General Clark, who with Mr. Lieberman had skipped Iowa to focus all his attention on this state. He had campaigned heavily here, taking advantage of the absence of his rivals in an effort to come in second place.
General Clark, whose eyes brimmed with tears, said: "Never, never, never underestimate what a determined soldier can accomplish when he's fighting for this country. And I'm fighting for this country."
In an interview with Larry King on CNN, Dr. Dean gave a hint at what presumably will be his line of attack on Mr. Kerry should this become the two-way race that aides to both men said they are looking for.
"I think the only way to beat George Bush is to have someone from outside Washington come down and do something for working families again," Dr. Dean said.
A survey of New Hampshire voters leaving the polls found that while there was overwhelming opposition to the war in Iraq, that was not a driving issue.
Instead, voters were much more likely to name health care as the issue upon which they based their votes here on Tuesday. And among those who opposed the war, Mr. Kerry, who voted for the Iraq resolution, had nearly as much support as Dr. Dean, who built his once high-flying candidacy on his opposition to the war.
The poll found that one-fifth of voters were looking for someone who they believed could topple Mr. Bush, and among those, Mr. Kerry won 6 out of 10 voters. But nearly a third said they were for someone who stood up for what he believed in, and Dr. Dean won more than half of those voters.
Health care was the top issue listed by New Hampshire voters, with one-third saying it was the most important issue in deciding how they voted. And nearly 4 in 10 of them voted for Mr. Kerry. The war in Iraq and the economy each was listed as the top issue by about 20 percent of the voters. 
Those who describe themselves as liberal were more likely to back Dr. Dean, while those who describe themselves as moderate were more likely to support Mr. Kerry.
The survey, conducted by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International for the National Election Pool -- a consortium of the five major television networks and The Associated Press -- interviewed 1,848 voters as they left the polls. For the full survey, the margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points.
Campaign officials reported evidence throughout the day of a heavy turnout of voters on a frigid day under slate-gray skies. 
In Manchester, Gladys Trautner, 81, and Eileen Pierson, 67, who are sisters, said they voted for Mr. Edwards because they believed he would have a better chance to defeat Mr. Bush.
"This is the worst I've ever seen our country," said Ms. Trautner, a retired accountant who lives in Manchester. "I'm worried for the future of this country."
Mrs. Pierson said: "The reason we wanted Edwards to win is that he would demolish Bush in a debate. Kerry, he's good but wouldn't demolish Bush and Bush needs to be demolished." 

GRAPHIC:  The poll was based on questionnaires completed by voters as they left voting stations throughout New Hampshire on Tuesday. Those with no opinion and those supporting other candidates are not shown. Figures add vertically. The poll was conducted by Edison Media Research of Somerville, N.J., and Mitofsky International of New York City for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results are based on 1,848 voters located in 90 randomly selected precincts across New Hampshire, interviewed as they were leaving voting stations. In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from such polls should differ by no more than plus or minus 3 percentage points from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all voters who cast ballots in the New Hampshire Democratic primary. Results based on smaller subgroups have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion, such as the reluctance of some voters to take time to fill out the questionnaire, may introduce other sources of error into the poll.(pg. A16) Chart: "New Hampshire Democratic Primary Results"97 percent of votes counted John Kerry82,594 = 39% Howard Dean56,353 = 26 Wesley K. Clark26,554 = 12 John Edwards25,849 = 12 Joseph I. Lieberman18,392 = 9 Dennis J. Kucinich3,015 = 1 Al Sharpton342 = 0 Others1,247 = 1 Graph shows numbers of votes cast in Democratic primaries from 1972-2004. (Sources by Associated Press results ; "America Votes," Congressional Quarterly Press past turnout )(pg. A16) Photos: Senator John Kerry last night as he celebrated his victory in the New Hampshire primary at a Holiday Inn in Manchester. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A16); Senator John Kerry with his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, last night after he won the New Hampshire primary. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A1) Chart: "NEW HAMPSHIRE: Where the Candidates Got Their Support" PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL Political philosophy47% -- LiberalSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 43%DEAN -- 64EDWARDS -- 38CLARK -- 43 44 -- ModerateSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 49DEAN -- 31EDWARDS -- 54CLARK -- 48 9 -- ConservativeSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 8DEAN -- 5EDWARDS -- 8CLARK -- 9 Education15% -- High school graduateSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 17%DEAN -- 10EDWARDS -- 16CLARK -- 21 26 -- Some collegeSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 25DEAN -- 26EDWARDS -- 28CLARK -- 24 30 -- College graduateSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 30DEAN -- 28EDWARDS -- 38CLARK -- 28 26 -- Postgraduate studySUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 24DEAN -- 35EDWARDS -- 19CLARK -- 23 Decided whom to vote for in primary35% -- In the last three daysSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 29%DEAN -- 34EDWARDS -- 46CLARK -- 38 19 -- In the last weekSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 26DEAN -- 11EDWARDS -- 21CLARK -- 16 19 -- In the last monthSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 23DEAN -- 15EDWARDS -- 14CLARK -- 27 26 -- BeforeSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 21DEAN -- 40EDWARDS -- 17CLARK -- 17 Vote for candidate because he33% -- Can defeat George W. Bush in Nov.SUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 46%DEAN -- 19EDWARDS -- 31CLARK -- 42 57 -- Agrees with you on major issuesSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 42DEAN -- 69EDWARDS -- 66CLARK -- 52 Feelings about the Bush administration46% -- AngrySUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 44%DEAN -- 61EDWARDS -- 34CLARK -- 48 37 -- Dissatisfied, but not angrySUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 42DEAN -- 29EDWARDS -- 45CLARK -- 33 13 -- Satisfied, but not enthusiasticSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 12DEAN -- 7EDWARDS -- 18CLARK -- 14 2 -- EnthusiasticSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 0DEAN -- 1EDWARDS -- 3CLARK -- 2 Issues that mattered most in deciding how to vote28% -- Health care/MedicareSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 31%DEAN -- 30EDWARDS -- 32CLARK -- 15 22 -- Economy/JobsSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 27DEAN -- 16EDWARDS -- 30CLARK -- 18 19 -- War in IraqSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 16DEAN -- 28EDWARDS -- 4CLARK -- 26 10 -- EducationSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 11DEAN -- 10EDWARDS -- 11CLARK -- 11 Candidate quality that mattered most in deciding how to vote29% -- He stands up for what he believesSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 16%DEAN -- 50EDWARDS -- 11CLARK -- 18 20 -- Can defeat BushSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 33DEAN -- 7EDWARDS -- 21CLARK -- 22 13 -- He has a positive messageSUPPORTERS OF:KERRY -- 11DEAN -- 10EDWARDS -- 29CLARK -- 6 HOW THE POLL WAS CONDUCTED The poll was based on questionnaires completed by voters as they left voting stations throughout New Hampshire on Tuesday. Those with no opinion and those supporting other candidates are not shown. Figures add vertically. The poll was conducted by Edison Media Research of Somerville, N.J., and Mitofsky International of New York City for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results are based on 1,848 voters located in 90 randomly selected precincts across New Hampshire, interviewed as they were leaving voting stations. In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from such polls should differ by no more than plus or minus 3 percentage points from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all voters who cast ballots in the New Hampshire Democratic primary. Results based on smaller subgroups have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion, such as the reluctance of some voters to take time to fill out the questionnaire, may introduce other sources of error into the poll.(pg. A16) Chart: "New Hampshire Democratic Primary Results"97 percent of votes counted John Kerry82,594 = 39% Howard Dean56,353 = 26 Wesley K. Clark26,554 = 12 John Edwards25,849 = 12 Joseph I. Lieberman18,392 = 9 Dennis J. Kucinich3,015 = 1 Al Sharpton342 = 0 Others1,247 = 1 Graph shows numbers of votes cast in Democratic primaries from 1972-2004. (Sources by Associated Press results ; "America Votes," Congressional Quarterly Press past turnout )(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (95%); JOHN EDWARDS (93%); JOE LIEBERMAN (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); DENNIS KUCINICH (78%); AL SHARPTON (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



709 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Tripling of Capacity for Air Traffic Is Sought 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
The secretary of transportation called Tuesday for tripling the air traffic capacity of the United States in the next 15 to 20 years to make room for more jet taxis, private jets, airliner traffic and the use of unmanned aerial vehicles. 
 The secretary, Norman Y. Mineta, said that air travel was recovering from the terrorist attacks of 2001 because of improved security and a rebounding economy and that new runways, control towers, air traffic computers and other improvements were being added. But, Mr. Mineta said, "the changes that are coming are too big, too fundamental for incremental adaptations of the infrastructure." 
 If the United States wants to retain global leadership in aviation, he said, "we need to modernize and transform our global transportation system, starting right now."
In a speech to the Aero Club of Washington, an aviation group, Mr. Mineta announced that he was naming John J. Hamre, a former under secretary of defense, to lead a research, engineering and development advisory committee. The Federal Aviation Administration is trying to improve coordination of its work with the Pentagon, the Department of Commerce and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to develop technology to increase air traffic capacity.
Before the terrorist attacks, the aviation agency had been struggling to keep up with demand for air traffic services, but the number of flights dropped sharply in the following months. Now there are signs that the air traffic capacity is becoming tight in some sites again, partly because the number of passengers is rebounding.
Another reason is the proliferation of smaller commercial airplanes called regional jets, many seating well under 100 people, which are supplanting bigger planes. As a result, the number of flights has grown faster than the level of passengers in some places, so more planes are flying fewer passenger. 
"The passenger count is down, but we're about back to where we were because of aircraft movements," said one expert, Robert E. Robeson, the vice president for civil aviation at the Aerospace Industries Association, a trade group. 
The trend may continue, because the airlines were having trouble filling all the seats on the bigger planes, and the smaller jets use less fuel and are generally flown by pilots who are paid less.
Mr. Robeson said that tripling the air traffic capacity might be necessary, if point-to-point travel in smaller airliners replaced hub-and-spoke systems. And jet manufacturers are producing small engines that could some day allow private planes to fly at airliner altitudes, he said, a development that would require more air traffic control services.
Unmanned aerial vehicles are pilotless airplanes now used extensively by the Defense Department in war zones, and the F.A.A. says it expects the aircraft may be used for border patrol duties, inspecting power lines and other domestic purposes. Because the aircraft have no pilot, they require extra work by air traffic controllers. 
Last week the F.A.A. announced that it had won an agreement to reduce delays at O'Hare Airport in Chicago by having American Airlines and United Airlines, which both operate hubs there, reduce their peak operations by 5 percent. Delays at O'Hare had been building and causing delays around the country.
Before Sept. 11, 2001, the government restricted operations at La Guardia Airport in New York because of delays. But Mr. Mineta said Tuesday that rationing airport use could not be a long-term action.
Mr. Mineta focused on one technology for increasing capacity, satellite navigation, using the Global Positioning System or related systems. That is more precise than radar and allows planes to be flown closer together without increased risk of midair collision. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (92%); CIVIL AVIATION (92%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); AIRLINES (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (88%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (77%); TERRORISM (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); AIRCRAFT MFG (72%); ENGINEERING (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); BORDER CONTROL (71%) Airlines and Airplanes; Air Traffic Control; Terrorism; Appointments and Executive Changes; United States Armament and Defense; Airlines and Airplanes; Military Aircraft

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%) Transportation Department (US); Federal Aviation Administration; National Aeronautics and Space Administration; Commerce Department

PERSON: Norman Y (Sec) Mineta; John J Hamre; Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



710 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Despite Recent Rise in Gifts, Donations to Neediest Lag

BYLINE:  By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
With the annual campaign to raise money for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund drawing to a close, donors continue to send money.
 But they are also sending mixed signals. 
 In recent weeks, the 2003-04 fund-raising effort, which concludes on Saturday, received an influx of donations, closing the gap between the amount raised during this campaign and the tally from one year ago. Fund officials saw the trend as an optimistic sign -- until the momentum diminished over the last few days.
By Monday, contributions totaled $7,548,200.03, 6 percent less than at the same point in the 2002-03 campaign.The number of donors is down as well, by about 11 percent. 
Still, the sharp rise in donations earlier this month was gratifying, said Jack Rosenthal, the president of The New York Times Company Foundation, which administers the fund.
The increase came, he said, at a time when the bitter weather was offering a poignant reminder of the daily travails of the poor.
The New York City Department of Homeless Services reported that 38,310 men, women and children in 2003 were homeless, an increase from the 34,576 that were reported in similar straits in 2002. 
"The cold magnifies need in this time of sharply higher homelessness," Mr. Rosenthal said. 
For more than nine decades, the Neediest Cases Fund has come to the aid of New Yorkers facing precisely these types of hardships: the lack of shelter and food, the struggle with illness and family turmoil. Drawing on the support of individuals and corporations, the fund has been able to provide emergency assistance and relief programs to help people in distress stabilize and even rebuild their lives.
With this in mind, the decline in donors is unsettling, said Mr. Rosenthal. "We have some sense of persistent donor fatigue in the long wake of 9/11," he said.
In the future, Mr. Rosenthal said, the hope is to make a stronger connection with younger professionals, without whom the tradition of giving falters.
One such initiative involves a relationship more than a decade old with representatives of New York's young investment banking community.
Jesse Serventi, Oliver Bell, Silpa Pericherla and Rachael Kort are all junior analysts at Citigroup. On Monday, their group presented the foundation with $130,000 worth of checks for the Neediest Cases Fund. The donation was the product of a five-month drive in three financial institutions -- Goldman Saks, CIBC and Citigroup. (Two other banks, Bank of America and First Boston, that also participated have yet to submit their collections.) 
With the Neediest Cases Fund, all donations go toward helping struggling individuals and families; while any administrative costs are covered by the foundation. Without such monetary gifts, social workers do not have the flexibility, or as many of the tools, they need to meet the frustrations of New York City's poor.
At the Community Service Society, one of the seven charities supported by the Neediest Cases Fund, money from the fund provides most of the clients' direct assistance, said Sanford Lewis, director of the charity's department of social services.
This assistance can include forestalling foreclosures, providing emergency food or medication, or helping people relocate after an eviction, he said.
"We are the place of last resort for these clients," he said. "We resolve situations that seem unresolvable."
To the Community Service Society and the six other charities aided by the fund, the decline in donors is worrisome, another cause for concern on top of a sluggish economy.
"The demand far exceeds our ability to help," said. Mr. Lewis. It is also cause for concern for the people directly helped by the Neediest Cases Fund, some of whom have shared their stories in The New York Times during the current fund-raising campaign.
One of these is Joseph Suber, whose account appeared on Dec. 10. The fund, and the generosity of donors, gave his family help and hope through a time of personal crisis.
Mr. Suber, 31, is a single father of two boys, Malik, 10, and Jalin, 5. After losing all they owned in a devastating fire at their apartment building in 2002, they had to move to a shelter.
But Mr. Suber was helped by Strive/East Harlem Employment Service, an affiliate of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, another of the charities supported by the Neediest Cases Fund. At Strive he received job training, which helped him find employment and secure a new apartment for his family. 
When Corinne Lau, a community relations manager at Ikea Paramus in New Jersey, read the story, she was touched by Mr. Suber's determination to keep his children from living in a shelter.
Ikea furnished his new home with living room and dining room sets and bunk beds for his children -- $2,500 worth of merchandise for a fresh start.
"We wanted to make it a surprise," said Ms. Lau. 
After some planning and a few white lies, Ms. Lau and her team concocted a scheme to keep Mr. Suber out of his apartment until they were finished decorating. "He was five minutes away, we were still working," said Ms. Lau. When Mr. Suber finally arrived with his son Malik, the last fixture was just being placed. 
Mr. Suber was so overwhelmed; he walked in and walked back out. He thought he had entered the wrong apartment. 
"I felt like it was on 'Oprah,"' he said. "I can finally eat dinner at the table with my family."
Mr. Suber, and recipients like him, are why Estella Otis of Philadelphia wrote a note with her recent $100 donation.
"All your profiles are heart-wrenching," she wrote. "We are thankful for our blessings, and wish to share."
Donations can still be sent to the campaign. Contributions must be postmarked or made throughCharityWave.com by Jan. 31. to count toward this year's campaign. 

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $7,516,794.03
Recorded Monday: 31,406.00
Total: $7,548,200.03
Last year to date: $8,033,998.43

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Neediest Cases Fund helped Joseph Suber and his family. Ikea provided free furnishings for their Lower East Side apartment. Mr. Suber and his two boys lost their possessions in a fire in 2002. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRENDS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); CHILDREN (71%); FAMILY (71%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies; Ikea

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (52%); BAC (LSE) (52%); 8648 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Kari Haskell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



711 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: For Rowland's Friends, Potential Dividends by Association 

BYLINE:  By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
When Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut released details of his investment in a real estate partnership last month, he described it as an uneventful business venture with three friends who neither sought, nor received, any favors from him.
 But if Mr. Rowland's partners received no specific benefits, they did get something just as valuable -- an association with the governor that had the potential to help them as they pursued their own business deals, some involving millions of dollars in state funds. Their state-financed projects included a moderate-income housing development and an industrial park. 
 Now, as investigators examine the governor's financial dealings, his venture into real estate offers a revealing glimpse of the sometimes murky risks and rewards of mixing business and politics. The question of whether he used his office improperly to help friends, employees or state contractors is central to the impeachment inquiry gearing up in Hartford and the federal criminal investigation of his administration.
Mr. Rowland adamantly denies that he did. But the real estate partnership is a reminder that sometimes just being associated with him could be a benefit in itself.
"There was talk at the time that some of these people were connected to the governor," said Stanley Sendzimir, who sold them land for the industrial park. "We took that as an indication that they were serious about buying it. You would assume, obviously, that their connection could only help."
It was in 1996, a little more than a year after becoming governor, that Mr. Rowland joined the partnership, called First Development Group. His partners -- Michael H. Cicchetti, Anthony R. Cocchiola and Robert S. Capanna -- had a 20-year history of buying and selling real estate together in the Waterbury area, often using a partnership called AMR Associates.
But although they were friends with Mr. Rowland -- Mr. Cicchetti was also his personal lawyer -- the three had never before included Mr. Rowland in one of their deals.
Making his involvement more unusual was that Mr. Rowland invested about 30 percent less than each of his partners, had no experience in such projects and apparently did little or none of the legwork. According to Mr. Rowland's records, he invested $7,200, while his partners each invested $10,000 to $11,000.
Yet the governor shared equally in the $240,000 profits from the project, which involved buying land in Prospect and Naugatuck, near his hometown, Waterbury, and developing it into residential building lots. The partnership was dissolved in 2001.
While partners with Mr. Rowland in First Development Group, his three friends used other partnerships and companies that did not include the governor to pursue millions of dollars from his administration.
Operating as AMR Associates, Messrs. Cicchetti, Cocchiola and Capanna completed a real estate deal in Waterbury that was financed by an $850,000 loan from the State Department of Economic and Community Development. A local builder was awarded the state loan in 1999 to buy and develop 6.5 acres owned by Mr. Rowland's partners.
A Waterbury developer, who attended at least one public meeting where the project was discussed, said that "everyone knew who these guys were," adding that Mr. Cicchetti was viewed as close to the governor. The developer, who has done business with some of Mr. Cicchetti's clients, asked not to be identified.
"Anyone involved in real estate in the Waterbury area knows that Mike is tight with Governor Rowland," he said. "Everyone's looking for some sign that the governor did something for these guys, but he didn't necessarily have to -- it was their reputation that carried them."
That reputation was also at work in neighboring Prospect, a tiny town where Mr. Rowland's involvement in the First Development Group subdivision was hardly a secret. Beginning in 1998, his three partners pieced together almost 200 acres that they proposed to sell to the town for use as an industrial park.
Larry B. Alexander, a Florida lawyer who represented Mr. Sendzimir in the sale of the largest tract of land for the park, said a local real estate broker talked up the group's association with Mr. Rowland.
"The broker told me that Mike Cicchetti was close with the governor," Mr. Alexander said. "He said Mike was a friend of the governor, and that couldn't hurt."
It was Mr. Cicchetti who first met with state officials in early 1999 to discuss financial support for the project, according to files at the Department of Economic and Community Development in Hartford.
A memo written by a department analyst in July of that year shows that state officials were not sure of the proposal's value at first. Noting that there were already industrial parks in Prospect and nearby Naugatuck, the analyst concluded, "It needs to be determined whether there is a market for this."
But in less than a year, the department was seeking authorization to begin financing it. According to a May 2000 notation by a state budget official, the industrial park had been "identified as a priority by D.E.C.D."
Mr. Rowland, as chairman of the State Bond Commission, had a hand in helping the project along, although his aides say it was largely a formality. He voted, along with the rest of the commission, to approve a list of items that included $175,000 for the Town of Prospect to begin planning the park, which would be partly financed by the state. 
"There have been thousands of projects that have come before the commission for approval under Governor Rowland," said Ross H. Garber, the governor's legal counsel. "There's nothing unusual about this."
If residents give their approval this year, the town will buy the land from Mr. Rowland's partners for about $3 million, or roughly twice what they paid for it.
Mr. Cicchetti and Mr. Cocchiola have not responded to requests for comment. Mr. Capanna died several years ago.
Details of Mr. Rowland's investment in First Development were forced out into the open in December as a result of the controversy over his admission that he lied about accepting free work on his weekend cottage in Litchfield from state contractors and employees. Among those involved in that work were Mr. Cicchetti and Mr. Cocchiola.
Mr. Cicchetti represented Mr. Rowland in the purchase of his cottage and coordinated some improvements and bill-paying related to it, according to documents provided by the governor's office.
As governor, Mr. Rowland recommended Mr. Cicchetti's son and daughter for jobs in his administration. Mr. Cocchiola's daughter also landed a job with the state.
Mr. Cocchiola's company, Cocchiola Paving, performed about $2,000 of work hauling topsoil to the cottage property in 1997, but was not paid until six years later. Mr. Rowland's 1994 campaign committee rented office space from Mr. Cocchiola, whose company has won more than $1 million in paving contracts during Mr. Rowland's tenure.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. John G. Rowland, speaking to reporters yesterday in Waterbury, Conn. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); POLITICS (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); IMPEACHMENT (53%) Ethics; Governors (US); Real Estate; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: First Development Group

PERSON: Mike Mcintire; John G (Gov) Rowland; Michael H Cichetti; Anthony R Cochiola; Robert S Capanna

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut; Connecticut; Waterbury (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



712 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Talking Loudly but Carrying a Small Stick in Paris 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
French government ministers have raised their voices in support of Sanofi-Synthelabo's hostile takeover bid for Aventis. For most of France's modern history, that would have signified powerful political muscle lined up to assure that the deal would go through. But today, it may add up to little more than verbal posturing. 
 "The French elite still speaks as if it is in charge of industrial affairs, but it no longer has the tools," said Elie Cohen, an economist and the director for research at France's National Scientific Research Center. In the last 20 years, Mr. Cohen said, the country has moved from state-led capitalism to market-led capitalism: "Now, investors decide." 
 Even though Aventis estimates that a takeover by Sanofi-Synthelabo could result in the elimination of 10,000 to 12,000 jobs, many of them in France, the French government is clearly in favor of combining the two companies, both major pharmaceutical manufacturers. In what appeared to be a coordinated campaign to press Aventis's management and shareholders to accept a deal, at least three government ministers have publicly supported Sanofi's bid.
 Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin told French entrepreneurs at the Senate on Tuesday that "it is very important in France, but also in Europe, to have the capacity to maintain a few big champions per sector -- world champions who are able to lift a whole economy of small corporations behind them." 
 Even the minister of social affairs, Francois Fillon, whose department would have to deal with the repercussions of large layoffs, said on the French radio station Europe 1 on Monday that he did not think "that building a European giant is dangerous for employment in the long term."
The finance minister, Francis Mer, repeated earlier comments that France and Europe needed the merger to fend off American pharmaceutical giants that might otherwise buy up the best of Europe's drug companies.
 "It is clear that in our global economy," Mr. Mer said, "we need strong players at the global level, and this implies the regrouping of forces between a certain number of actors who share the same values, the same culture and who are therefore capable together to get quickly the benefits that stem from their getting closer."
 But Mr. Mer also emphasized that the merger was a private matter and that the government would not get involved. A spokesman in his office added that the government lacked the means to interfere.
 For many people, the talk of champions recalled France's "dirigiste" days, when the government worked closely with the country's business elite to manage French industry -- a tendency that dated back to the 17th century, when Louis XIV's comptroller general, Jean Baptiste Colbert, created government monopolies and introduced other forms of intervention to stabilize the economy.
 "Colbertism," as the interventionist policy became known, continued through revolutions and restorations and republics, through the socialist tendencies of the late 19th and early 20th centuries and the wave of nationalizations after World War II. More recently, France has been criticized for perpetuating the government's role through a series of corporate bailouts. Last year, the government agreed to spend 3.2 billion euros ($4 billion) to rescue the heavily indebted railcar maker Alstom.
 The high-profile friendship between President Jacques Chirac and the chief executive of Sanofi-Synthelabo, Jean-Francois Dehecq, has added to the perception that the government is playing a role in the takeover bid. It may well turn out that the bid was discussed at high levels before it was announced. But analysts argue that integration into the European Union and the privatizations of the last 20 years have left France a different place, where Colbertism is more a rhetorical habit than a practical force. 
 France radically restructured many declining industries in the 1990's, and government subsidies and other aid to ailing businesses peaked in 1997. Since then, analysts say, government aid has fallen sharply, and today is no higher relative to the size of the economy than in many of France's European neighbors. Meanwhile, Paris no longer has the final say on major mergers here: any deal that would create an entity with sales of more than 500 million euros requires approval from the European Union.
 Mr. Cohen cited several recent examples in which the French government tried and failed to influence a merger deal to promote the national interest. The French treasury backed a three-way combination of the major French banks BNP, Paribas and Societe Generale, but only BNP and Paribas wound up merging. The government opposed the purchase of the aluminum maker Pechiney by a Canadian rival, Alcan, but the deal went through anyway. 
 Foreigners now hold about 40 percent of the equity in companies listed on France's national stock exchange. In fact, France's relatively liberal policies have made it a magnet for investors: foreign direct investment in 2002, the latest year for which figures are available, totaled $52 billion -- only $1 billion less than China received that year.
 Mr. Cohen argued that the French government was now no more protective of its major companies than were other developed nations. For example, Italy blocked a recent bid by Electricite de France to acquire the Italian power company Montedison. And Europeans point to the Bush administration's imposition of protective steel tariffs as evidence that even the United States intervenes in the economy when it thinks jobs are at stake. 
 That is not to say that Paris will not play a role when it can. Government subsidies have so far kept the French computer maker Groupe Bull out of bankruptcy, though the subsidies have been challenged by the European Union and most people think that the company will eventually disappear. 
 French pride is also at stake in keeping the country's drug-industry jewels from disappearing into foreign pockets. The government's public support of Sanofi-Synthelabo's bid may yet persuade some major French shareholders of Aventis to accept it. But gone are the days when backroom deals were brokered by France's leading politicians, economists here say.
 "You have a desperate effort by senior civil servants to maintain some control, but they no longer have the power," said Robert Boyer, a senior French economist. "Now it is investors, Brussels and the World Trade Organization who decide."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, above, said this week that it was important in France "to have the capacity to maintain a few big champions per sector." (Photo by Reuters); (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); HISTORY (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); MERGERS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); DIVESTITURES (67%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (60%); LAYOFFS (52%) Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Economic Conditions and Trends; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (97%)

ORGANIZATION: AVENTIS; SANOFI-SYNTHELABO ; Aventis; Sanofi-Synthelabo Sa

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (97%); SANF (BIT) (97%); SAN (PAR) (97%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (97%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS FILLON (59%) Craig S Smith; Jean-Pierre Raffarin

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%) FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) France

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



713 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing West: California: Movement On Rail Plan 

BYLINE:  Reuters

 BODY:
 California and federal officials said they would move ahead with plans for a 700-mile, high-speed rail system that might cost up to $37 billion, a project opposed by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who has said the price is too steep. 
Joe Petrillo, chairman of the California High-Speed Rail Authority, said a 2,000-page environmental impact report on the proposed transit system would now be available for public comment for a 90-day period, a required regulatory step. The system has drawn opposition from Mr. Schwarzenegger, who has proposed that lawmakers remove from the November ballot a nearly $10 billion bond measure that would finance the initial phases of the system's construction. The governor, who supports limited financing for further planning on the train system, is opposed to an expensive borrowing plan to break ground on the system while state's finances and economy remain wobbly, a spokesman said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); GOVERNORS (88%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (88%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (88%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (88%); TRAINS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (87%) Railroads; High-Speed Rail Projects; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%) Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



714 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN; 
Kerry and Dean Speeches

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from speeches by Senator John Kerry and Howard Dean after they placed first and second in the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday, as recorded byThe New York Times.

Mr. Kerry
 This victory belongs also in a special way to the veterans who marched with us. And they helped -- they helped to lift us up from the lowest points to the point where we are today. 
 I know that all of you will join me in saying a special thank you to Max Cleland and Jim Rassmann. In the hardest moments of the past month, I depended on the same band of brothers that I depended on some 30 years ago. We're a little older and a little grayer, but I'll tell you this, we still know how to fight for our country.
And if I am president, I pledge -- when I am president -- I pledge that those who wore the uniform of the United States of America will have a voice and a champion in the Oval Office. 
Now this campaign goes on to places all over this country. And I ask Democrats everywhere to join us so that we can defeat George W. Bush and the economy of privilege. And so that we can fulfill the ideal of opportunity not just for some but for all Americans.

Dr. Dean
Stand with us to the very end, which is Jan. 20, 2005. For those of you who think that America needs a president who's willing to stand up for what's right, not just what's popular, we are all together again. Stand together, all of us. To those of you who believe the best way to beat George Bush, in fact the only way to beat George Bush, is to stand up to him all the time, not just when it's convenient, not just some of the time, tonight the people of New Hampshire have asked for change, a real change.
We can change America, and we will. We can have jobs again in America, and we will. 
We can join every other industrialized nation on the face of the earth and have health insurance for all Americans, and we will. 
We can invest in families with small children and have those kids grow up to go to college instead of prison, and we will. 
We can demand for our young people a better future, a solution to global warming, getting us off foreign oil by investing in renewable energy, and we will. 
We can regain the moral leadership of this country as it held from the end of World War I until the time of the Iraq invasion, by having a foreign policy based on cooperation, not confrontation, and we will. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); WORLD WAR I (72%); FAMILY (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); CHILDREN (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Primaries

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%) Howard (Dr) Dean; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 



715 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: $4.5 Billion Award Set For Spill of Exxon Valdez 

BYLINE:  By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
Fifteen years after the Exxon Valdez spilled 11 million gallons of crude oil into the Prince William Sound in Alaska, a federal judge yesterday imposed punitive damages of $4.5 billion on the Exxon Mobil Corporation. With interest, the total punitive award amounts to about $6.75 billion, according to lawyers for the 32,000 fishermen and residents who brought the suit in 1989.
 Yesterday's decision was the third attempt by Judge H. Russel Holland, a federal district judge in Anchorage, to impose a punitive award that the federal appeals court in San Francisco would uphold. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit vacated awards of $5 billion and $4 billion, not including interest, as too large. 
 Lawyers for the plaintiffs said the trial court's decision meant the litigation was almost over.
"This is the closing chapter at the trial court level," said David W. Oesting, a lawyer at Davis Wright Tremaine in Anchorage. 
Tom Cirigliano, a spokesman for Exxon Mobil, said the company expected the appeals court to reduce the award.
"The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals has twice vacated Judge Holland's decisions in this matter," he said. The latest decision, he added, "will require us once again to appeal an order that is entirely inconsistent with the law."
A jury returned the $5 billion punitive award in 1994. Judge Holland upheld it in 1995, saying that it was not "grossly excessive." In yesterday's decision, he called the number breathtaking but said the court's task was not to determine "whether the jury 'got it right' " but rather to ask whether the award was fundamentally unfair to the defendant.
In 2001, the appeals court held that award was too high and "must be reduced." In 2002, Judge Holland did reduce it, to $4 billion, although he noted that he thought a $5 billion award was justified.
Last year, the appeals court vacated that smaller award, too. It did not say whether it was too high or too low but asked Judge Holland to reconsider in light of a recent ruling on punitive damages by the United States Supreme Court.
In yesterday's decision, Judge Holland again asserted that a $5 billion award was justified but imposed an intermediate amount, of $4.5 billion.
In an 82-page decision, Judge Holland defended the amount as necessary to achieve the purposes of punitive damages, which he said were retribution and deterrence.
He said the most important question was "the degree of reprehensibility" of Exxon's conduct. Judge Holland wrote that the impact of the spill could not be overstated, in contrast to recent Supreme Court punitive damages cases involving insurance disputes and selling repainted cars. 
"The social fabric of Prince William Sound and Lower Cook Inlet was torn apart," he wrote. The spill "disrupted the lives (and livelihood) of thousands of claimants and their families for years."
"Exxon cannot escape the fact," he added, "that it knew that it was allowing a relapsed alcoholic to operate a fully loaded, crude oil tanker in and out of Prince William Sound, a body of water which Exxon knew to be highly valuable for its fishery resources which Exxon knew, or should have known, were relied on by subsistence fishermen."
The captain of the Exxon Valdez, Joseph J. Hazelwood, was drinking on the night of the spill. He was convicted of negligently discharging oil, a misdemeanor.
The central question in many recent punitive damages cases has been the appropriate ratio between compensatory damages, which are meant to make plaintiffs whole, and punitive damages, which are meant to punish the defendant.
The parties disputed the amount to be used in the comparison. Exxon argued that the appropriate compensatory amount was $20 million to $383 million; the plaintiffs said the correct amount was $513 million. Judge Holland accepted the larger.
As a consequence, he wrote, the 9.74-to-1 ratio between compensatory damages and even a $5 billion punitive award was appropriate under the Supreme Court's recent ruling.
Judge Holland rejected a suggestion by the appeals court that the costs already paid by Exxon to clean the spill, which exceeded $2 billion, may be enough to deter it and other companies from similar conduct.
Calling the appeals court's economic analysis appropriate "in the abstract or academic world," Judge Holland wrote that "in the real world, Exxon and its officials and managers do not work this way." 
"We are dealing with," he wrote, "reckless corporate officials."
The judge gave no reason for the number he settled on, $4.5 billion, other than saying it was "the means of resolving the conflict between its conclusions and the directions of the court of appeals." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMAGES (92%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); APPEALS COURTS (91%); JUDGES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); VERDICTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (94%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (91%) ALASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



716 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: San Francisco Journal; 
Last Car. Geek Party. Spread the Word.

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
The crowd gathered rather discreetly at the designated subway station, 16th and Mission, at the designated time, 5:30 on Friday afternoon, waiting for the designated train, the eastbound for Richmond. 
 Someone walked by with a piece of paper, an invitation: "The last car on the subway is the party car." 
 The subway train pulled up, and a man named Marc with a floppy blond Mohawk and a crimson sport coat let out a welcoming call from the platform. He carried an e-flat euphonium under his arm and had a habit of making noise, any noise. He was the nonleader of this nonevent: a "spontaneous, digitally organized" party on BART, as the Bay Area Rapid Transit is known. 
BART's tape-recorded voice announced, "Ten-car train for Richmond," setting off a giggling dash toward car No. 10.
The party car was up and running -- for dozens of Web freaks, hackers, geeks and others like them -- a time and place to meet, mingle, act up, wind down, express themselves, dangle from poles, rage against the machine or do none of that, anonymously, anarchically, all in the cramped, swaying confines of a subway car hurtling underneath this stridently counterculture city, in the direction of Berkeley, where it would be abruptly unplugged.
A clown named Romance the Love Pirate brought a rubber chicken. Two men in trench coats smirked near the back. One heavyset man with pale skin and knit cap came dressed in white. He said he worked in a cubicle and did not get out much. What did he do for a living? "I sell drugs," he said.
They were joined by three skateboarders and a man wearing black leather pants and a Houston Police Department shirt. That man hung upside down from the handrails.
It was a mutinous commute, simultaneously pointed and pointless.
"This is our space," said Earl Stirling, an unemployed computer engineer, explaining the party's philosophical underpinnings. "We own public transportation."
The BART party was not original (subway parties in New York and London have been around awhile), but it had a compelling San Francisco twist: anonymous, virtual invitations to the entire world.
"Join a bunch of hackers and geeks," one of the Web invitations said. "Spread the word," another said. "Bring people, visuals, music. If you don't make the first train, we're also on the second, and the one after that and the one after that and the one after that."
As the car rumbled toward the San Francisco Bay, someone with an X-acto knife cut the Jet Blue advertisements into strips, struggling not to slice anyone's wrists with each lurch of the train. The dissected placards were mounted overhead, giving the car the vague feel of a cheap discotheque.
A man with long sideburns unraveled a tube of green cellophane, which he used to cover a row of lights with packing tape. Suddenly it was Christmastime.
A bag of something edible in the shape of mustaches was passed around. An assortment of small paper cups with Champagne drifted by. When asked, the man hanging from the ceiling volunteered a few thoughts about acts of "urban reclamation" and "space hijacking." 
"People need to find more interesting ways to have fun," he said.
The man with the mustaches, who identified himself as a graduate student in computer science, seemed irritated when questioned. But his idea: The point of the party was that there was no point.
"There doesn't have to be a reason," he said. "We're reclaiming public space and showing people that they can make things happen. It is not evolved from corporations."
That was the first clue for the reporter on board, who would soon appreciate what it must feel like to be in the employ of Bechtel or Halliburton and wander into an anti-globalization demonstration. Because as much as this party car was about impulsive revelry in a place open to anyone, there was some anger, nastiness and anxiousness about this person from outside the virtual clique.
A round man named Michael with a shock of tomato-colored hair sneered and pointed his digital camera at the reporter. Later, he posted the photographs on the Internet, with commentary. "Fight the real enemy," it read above one photo of the reporter. "Damn the man," it said on another.
When the reporter approached Marc, the party's nonleader who was described by others on the car as both a chef and hacker, Marc asked to see proof of employment. He looked disdainfully when handed a New York Times business card, refusing to take it. Marc then declined to speak further.
After about half an hour, the party took a general turn for the worse when two transit police officers boarded the last car in Berkeley.
It was there, with everyone required to assemble on the platform, that Romance the clown joined the reporter on the party's island of misfits. The police were threatening her with a citation for boisterous behavior. More than a few commuters simply wanted to read a book after a long week at work, the officers explained, suggesting that she just shut up.
But Romance did not, for the longest of times. Most of the geeks scattered as she endeavored to remain in character, even when her rubber chicken slipped from her belt and an officer ordered, "Don't drop your chicken, ma'am." 
Once back on the train, with the party crashed and the last car again as quiet as the first, Marc sought out the reporter. He let it be known that the reporter had been an unwelcome partygoer and the events of the evening did not belong in any newspaper, especially one interested in profits, he said.
"You are stealing our art," Marc said in what became a long lecture about corporate journalism. "You are commercializing our culture."
The spontaneous party car had become unfun for those who could not command its spontaneity. When the reporter got back to his desk that night, the phone rang. It was Hallie, the caller said. Remember? We met on the party car?
Hallie had called to pitch a story. The island of misfits was growing.
The next day on the Web, center stage for activist clowns and angry hackers alike, Romance wrote of her disappointment.
"If Shakespeare was correct in his belief that we are all players, then we are all outlaws, too," she said on tribe.net. "I refuse to be afraid. Let silliness prevail. Children are watching. We must set an example of ridiculousness and play."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The party car in full swing on the last of 10 cars of a Bay Area Rapid Transit train. This photograph was posted on the party car Web site. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); TRAINS (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (77%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (76%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (75%); EXTREME SPORTS (71%); SKATEBOARDING (71%); POLICE FORCES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



717 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: A Drug Used for Cattle Is Said to Be Killing Vultures 

BYLINE:  By JAMES GORMAN

 BODY:
A mysterious and precipitous plunge in the number of vultures in South Asia, which has pushed three species to the brink of extinction, is probably a result of inadvertent poisoning by a drug used widely in livestock to relieve fever and lameness, scientists reported yesterday.
 Studies in Pakistan showed that the drug, diclofenac, an anti-inflammatory commonly prescribed for arthritis and pain in people, caused acute kidney failure in vultures when they ate the carcasses of animals that had recently been treated with it. The findings, which followed a two-year investigation by an international team of 13 scientists, were published online by the journal Nature. 
 Dr. J. Lindsay Oaks, an assistant professor of veterinary medicine at Washington State University who was the primary author of the report, said the devastation of vulture populations was the first clear case of major ecological damage caused by a pharmaceutical product. 
There has been growing concern among scientists and environmentalists about the "vast amount of drugs that end up in the environment one way or another," he said, but no effect of this magnitude. 
A study in 2002 by the United States Geological Survey found traces of many different pharmaceuticals and "personal care products" -- including steroids, insect repellents and many others -- in the American water supply. The effect of these traces is unknown, but the concern is about the unexpected. One laboratory study suggested, for example, that antidepressants like Prozac could trigger spawning in some shellfish.
The vulture finding in South Asia comes as a surprise: while environmental toxins had been suspected in the deaths, a pharmaceutical drug had not. Scientists in India and England suggested that disease was the cause of vulture deaths in India, but they found no infectious agent. The scientists who did the research in Pakistan said thesituation in India was likely to be the same as that in Pakistan. But they said they did not have conclusive evidence.
Dr. Oaks said the investigation, which began in 2000, was prompted by reports of a 95 percent drop in the number of Asian white-backed vultures (Gyps bengalensis), Indian vultures (Gyps indicus) and slender-billed vultures (Gyps tenuirostris). All three are listed as critically endangered by the World Conservation Union, the international environmental agency based in Switzerland.
Thomas E. Lovejoy, president of the H. John Heinz III Center for Science, Economics and the Environment, who has long been a leader in environmental policy, said he thought the paper made a "watertight" case for diclofenac as the culprit in the vulture decline. 
"I think what it actually says is that we really need to look systematically at the use of pharmaceuticals for veterinary purposes," Dr. Lovejoy said. He added, "It does raise a question of whether we should be looking more closely at the trace chemicals from human use."
In the United States diclofenac, which is in the same class of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs as ibuprofen, is not used in veterinary medicine, although it is often prescribed for people. In Asia the drug is widely given to cattle because it is cheap and because losing livestock to lameness or fever can be devastating to small farmers with only a few animals.
The rapid decline in vulture populations was first reported in the late 1990's by Dr. Vibhu Prakash of the Bombay Natural History Society. Vulture populations had been shrinking gradually from loss of habitat and disease throughout Asia, but what happened in India and Pakistan was different. The decline was quick and severe and posed a problem in a part of the world that relied heavily on the ubiquitous vultures for the efficient disposal of dead livestock. 
The decline also threatened the traditions of the Parsis, a sect of Zoroastrians who have traditionally exposed their dead to the elements rather than burying or cremating them. In Bombay they had to stop putting their dead on the stone Towers of Silence because the birds that once quickly consumed them were vanishing. 
The plight of the vultures attracted worldwide attention, prompting the Peregrine Society, a bird conservation group based in Boise, Idaho, to begin an investigation with the Ornithological Society of Pakistan.
Dr. Oaks, who is a diagnostician, said the investigation of the cause of vulture deaths followed a painstaking course. Examination of dead vultures provided the first clues. Eighty-five percent showed evidence of acute kidney failure. The scientists then tested the vulture tissue for traces of obvious causes of kidney failure: heavy metals, pesticides and other chemicals. They found none of the substances they were looking for. 
The next step was to survey veterinarians and the sellers of veterinary drugs to find which medications were regularly used in livestock, since domestic animals formed a major portion of the vultures' diet. 
Because an overdose of diclofenac can cause kidney damage in humans, the drug seemed to be a likely cause of death in the vultures. Further tests established that there were residues of diclofenac in dead vultures. The researchers then conducted experiments that showed that the amount of diclofenac a vulture might ingest from a carcass could kill it within days. 
Unlike DDT, which devastated populations of birds of prey, diclofenac does not accumulate in the tissues of livestock or birds. But for the vultures, it is poison. 
The drug, theresearchers conclude, "may also be responsible for vulture declines in the rest of the Indian subcontinent wherever diclofenac is used for the treatment of livestock." The Peregrine Fund, the researchers and other organizations said theyintend to push for a ban on the drug in veterinary use in India, Nepal and Pakistan.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 2, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a study attributing the rapid decline in South Asian vultures to inadvertent poisoning by diclofenac, an anti-inflammatory drug given to livestock, misstated the name of an American bird conservation group that has been investigating the deaths. It is the Peregrine Fund, not the Peregrine Society.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Asian white-backed vulture, found dead in a tree. Scientists believe that a drug prescribed for arthritis and pain in people and also given to cattle is responsible for many vulture deaths in India and Pakistan. (Photo by Munir Virani/Peregrine Fund) Chart/Map: "Birds Dying Out"Colonies of vultures studied in Pakistan have been decimated in just four seasons, possibly by poisoning from drug residues. Number of active breeding pairs of Asian white-backed vultures in three sites in Punjab, Pakistan: CHANGA MANGA, near Lahore2000-'01 -- 758Data not available21'03-'04 -- 0 TOAWALA, near Multan'00-'01 -- 418392298'03-'04 -- 162 DHOLEWALA, near Multan'00-'01 -- 415337101'03-'04 -- 2 (Source by The Peregrine Fund) Map of Pakistan shows the surrounding area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AGENTS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); VETERINARY DRUGS (89%); POISONINGS (89%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); ANIMALS (78%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (74%); STEROIDS (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); WRITERS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); HOMICIDE (64%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (63%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (57%); ARTHRITIS (57%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: PEREGRINE FUND (84%); WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTHERN ASIA (91%); SWITZERLAND (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



718 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
TheSuper Spots Lighten Up, At $2.3 Million For 30 Seconds

BYLINE:  By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Twenty years after the Super Bowl first became as big a day for advertising as it is for professional football, Madison Avenue is gearing up for what looks to be a cheerier, somewhat sillier and certainly more expensive version of the annual midwinter festival of commercialism.
 The Ad Bowl within Super Bowl XXXVIII, to be broadcast on Sunday by CBS, will be infused with oversize servings of ingredients like humor, schmaltz, special effects and anthropomorphic animals. 
 Instead of the Budweiser horses bowing in the direction of ground zero as in 2002, a donkey will be shown dreaming of becoming a Clydesdale. And rather than Pepsi-Cola's sweet nostalgia of two years ago when Britney Spears danced and sang her way through the decades, the brand's newest commercial will serenade 16 teenagers sued by the recording industry for illegal file sharing with "I Fought the Law (and the Law Won)." 
For the privilege of appearing during the Super Bowl, companies including Anheuser-Busch, FedEx, General Motors, I.B.M., Monster Worldwide and Procter & Gamble are paying an average of $2.3 million for a 30-second commercial, up from $2.1 million last year. But CBS will have no trouble selling out the commercial time for the game, even though the growing cost of a spot has drastically outpaced the inflation rate over the years. The game is almost always the most-watched television program of the year, expected to be viewed this year entirely or in part by a projected 130 million Americans. And in an era of shrinking TV ratings for the networks, the erosion of viewership in important categories like men ages 18 to 34 and the growing disdain for commercials as annoyances to be zapped, the Super Bowl is perhaps the only program with an audience that looks forward to seeing the commercials. 
Just as in 1984, when Apple Computer and the Chiat/Day agency kicked off the tradition of spectacular, splashy spots made especially for the game, almost all of the 40 or so commercials to be shown by CBS will be new to viewers. 
Not only will there be a battle between two erectile-dysfunction drugs, Cialis and Levitra, the Super Bowl will also bring a credit card competition, between MasterCard and Visa; a film fight among the Walt Disney, Sony Pictures, Universal and Warner Brothers movie studios; and an automotive altercation among brands like Cadillac, Chevrolet, Dodge and Mitsubishi. 
And Apple is returning to the Super Bowl, in a partnership with the Pepsi-Cola division of PepsiCo, to give away iTunes music downloads.
The tone of recent years -- the dourness of the dot.com bust, the post-9/11 patriotism and the pre-Iraq- war jitters of last year -- will be lightened. Last year, viewers saw a federal antidrug commercial linking drug use and terrorism. On Sunday, they will watch the false teeth fly as an elderly couple wrestle over a bag of Lay's potato chips. 
The perkier Super Bowl mostly reflects opinion polls showing an upturn in the national mood as well as data indicating what may finally be the arrival of the long-awaited economic recovery. 
The appeal of advertising in the Super Bowl comes from reaching attentive consumers, who are of increasingly important value, marketers say, as the television landscape undergoes wrenching alterations. That has led advertisers to begin questioning their decades-long love affair with what has been the biggest, most important advertising medium. 
"At the affluent end of the market, our customers have so many media choices, like the Internet, DVD's and 500 channels," said Mark LaNeve, general manager at the Cadillac division of General Motors in Detroit. "But they take time out of their lives for 'big event' television like the Super Bowl, one of the few properties that exist today where people are still actually watching the commercials."
Cadillac will be in the game for the third year in a row, Mr. LaNeve said, with an elaborate new spot by Chemistri in Troy, Mich., part of the Publicis Groupe, using special effects to show four 2004 models making waves, literally and figuratively.
"It would be incredibly inefficient if you did all your media buying this way," Mr. LaNeve said, referring to the price of a spot on Sunday, "and every year we ask if the Super Bowl makes sense."
"So far," he added, "it has."
Those advantages, marketers say, outweigh daunting concerns like Mr. LaNeve's over the rising cost to appear in the game or to produce the glitzy Super Bowl spots, which can total in the hundreds of thousands of dollars.
For Super Bowl I, in 1967, a 30-second spot cost about $42,000, or $239,167 in today's dollars, adjusted for inflation, according to Advertising Age. For Super Bowl XVIII in 1984, when Apple made ad history with a spot called "1984" that introduced the Macintosh PC, 30 seconds of ad time cost about $450,000 (or $833,584 in current dollars). This year, CBS will bring in an estimated $138 million for the game.
"When you're spending $2.3 million, you have to get more than just something to talk about in your boardroom or at a cocktail party," said Robert Passikoff, president of Brand Keys in New York, a brand and customer-loyalty research consultant.
"The question is not the audience, because you know you're getting the audience, so it's a matter of what you're doing to build sales and positive brand imagery," Mr. Passikoff said. "It's a venue that works well for some advertisers and not for others." 
Also, many agencies find it difficult to produce commercials that can stand out amidst the cacophonous frenzy of selling that totals an eye-numbing 30 minutes during a typical Super Bowl. That results in substandard also-ran ads, which finish embarrassingly low in the many postgame surveys and polls of favorite, memorable spots like the USA Today Ad Meter. Among those derided for their bottom-dwelling last year: spots for Subway, Yahoo HotJobs and Gallery Furniture.
"The bar keeps getting much higher each year," said Steven Addis, chief executive of Addis in Berkeley, Calif., a brand strategy and design agency. "Your commercial better be great," he added. "It drives me crazy when people put on junk; they're better off not being on."
Leonard Blum, vice president for sales and marketing at the Icos Corporation in Bothell, Wash., said, "The goal isn't merely to entertain or generate a commercial people say they like." "The goal is a commercial that will stick in people's minds, intrigue them, stand out by being uplifting, warm, emotional." 
Icos, with Eli Lilly & Company, will run a new commercial to introduce Cialis, their prescription drug for erectile dysfunction.
"We like very much starting this way, in a venue associated with competition," Mr. Blum said of the Cialis spot, by Grey Worldwide in New York, part of the Grey Global Group. "If the three erectile-dysfunction medications are profiled side by side by side, we're confident patients will appreciate Cialis's advantages." 
Another new drug in the category, Levitra, sold by Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline, will help make that comparison easier by running two new spots during the game, by the Quantum Group in Parsippany, N.J., part of WPP. (Viagra, the category leader, from Pfizer, is not scheduled to buy a commercial.)
"You're very thoughtful about the commercial you run because there are two games going on, the football game and the commercial game," said Abby F. Kohnstamm, senior vice president for marketing at International Business Machines in Armonk, N.Y. The I.B.M. spot, by Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide in New York, part of the WPP Group, presents Muhammad Ali with an inquisitive child meant to represent the Linux open source operating system.
"Our commercial," she added, "is a commercial for the Super Bowl," when viewers anticipate "great spots."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cadillac has worked with the Chemistri agency to produce an elaborate commercial, featuring special effects, to promote four 2004 models.; In an I.B.M. spot, Muhammad Ali and a child illustrate the Linux open source operating system. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); FESTIVALS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); HORSES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); DRUG POLICY (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (64%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (64%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (64%); TERRORISM (60%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (60%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; SPORTS; TELEVISION 

COMPANY: VISA INC (81%); MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (69%); PEPSICO INC (57%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (81%); MWW (NYSE) (69%); PEP (NYSE) (57%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%); DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (69%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

PERSON: BRITNEY SPEARS (54%); MUHAMMAD ALI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (65%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



719 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Fed Holds Rates Steady But Alters Its Pledge
The Federal Reserve left short-term interest rates at 1 percent, the lowest level since 1958, but it jolted markets by retreating from its open-ended pledge to keep rates low for "a considerable period."
 Though subtle, the Fed's change in language surprised many economists because it suggested the central bank might start to raise rates before the end of the year. Prices on Treasury securities dropped, stocks declined and the dollar jumped, though the markets recovered in part as analysts parsed the language in greater detail. Page A1. 

Time Warner Swings to a Profit
Time Warner said that it returned to a profit in the fourth quarter, reversing a loss in the period a year earlier, on the strength of its film and cable businesses, but its America Online unit continued to struggle. Time Warner posted net income of $638 million, or 14 cents a share, in contrast to a loss of $44.9 billion, or $10.04 a share, in the year earlier. Revenue rose 6.3 percent, to $10.9 billion. C8.

A Dizzying Day at Hollinger
Hollinger International rejected a proposal by the Barclay brothers of Britain to buy the entire company, according to a filing by the brothers' company, Press Holdings. Then last night, Hollinger issued a statement saying the initial offer was never firm. The Barclays had reached a tentative deal with Hollinger's former chairman, the press baron Conrad M. Black, for most of the company.C4.

Aventis Board Turns Down Bid
The supervisory board of Aventis unanimously rejected a $60 billion takeover offer from Sanofi-Synthelabo, saying "this bid is not in the best interest of Aventis shareholders and employees." The statement, endorsing the decision by Aventis management to spurn the offer, indicated that the company's main shareholders are willing to stay pat, at least for now. C8.

Treasury Proposes Rule on Profits
The Treasury moved to make it harder for companies to hide abusive tax-avoidance transactions. It proposed rules governing the differences between the profits companies report to shareholders and the (usually smaller) figures they report on tax returns. C2.

Parmalat Unit Seeks Protection
Parmalat's Brazilian dairy unit filed for bankruptcy protection, buckling under from the effects of the accounting scandal at its parent and legal actions in Brazilian courts. C9.

Punitive Damages in Valdez Case
Fifteen years after the Exxon Valdez ran aground and spilled 11 million gallons of crude oil into the Prince William Sound in Alaska, a federal judge imposed punitive damages on Exxon Mobil of $4.5 billion. A18.

Sony Beats Quarterly Expectations
Profits at Sony fell 26 percent in the fourth quarter, hurt by restructuring costs, a stronger yen and declining revenue in the movie and video game divisions. Sony's profit of 92.6 billion yen ($874 million) in the quarter was, however, larger than expected, thanks partly to improved sales of home electronics during the holiday shopping season. Sales over all rose 0.7 percent, to a quarterly record of 2.32 trillion yen ($21.9 billion). "Our year-end performance was stronger than expected," said Sony's chief financial officer, Takao Yuhara, above. World Business, Section W.

Saying No Pays Off for Start-Up
Lurita Doan, an entrepreneur, turned down the opportunity of a lifetime: a $22 million contract to supply hardware to the government. It was a decision that guaranteed the ultimate success of her start-up. Small Business. C7.

Job Migration Is Not All Bad
Some technology jobs may indeed be migrating overseas, but the trend is less frightening and more promising than one might think. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,468.37 down 141.55Nasdaq composite -- 2,077.37 down 38.6710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.20% up 0.12The euro -- $1.2484 down 0.0149The dollar -- 106.08 up 0.46 Graph tracks the share price of Time Warner since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX FRAUD (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (79%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CURRENCIES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); TAKEOVERS (75%); DAMAGES (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (63%); OIL SPILLS (63%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); JUDGES (60%); ACCOUNTING (50%); SCANDALS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (94%); AOL INC (57%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (55%); PARMALAT SPA (52%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (94%); SANF (BIT) (94%); SAN (PAR) (94%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (94%); AOL (NYSE) (57%); PLT (BIT) (52%); XOM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (52%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (52%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (52%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%)

PERSON: PRINCE WILLIAM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



720 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Economic Growth Showed A Soft Side During December 

BYLINE:  Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
New orders for long-lasting manufactured goods were unchanged in December and sales of new houses fell as a strong quarter for economic growth closed on a soft note, two reports showed Wednesday.
 The Commerce Department said orders for durable goods -- items meant to last three years or more like refrigerators and cars -- were flat in December after falling a revised 2.3 percent in November. 
 Analysts had expected a solid increase of 2 percent, and the data raised questions about the strength of the manufacturing recovery that had been evident in other reports. 
"It's disappointing coming off a huge decline in November," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com in West Chester, Pa. "I was expecting a bit of a rebound." 
The Commerce Department said sales of new houses dropped 5.1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.060 million units, as the strongest year for house sales ended with a whimper.
While the December sales rate was the slowest since April, the report was not entirely bleak because the overall level of activity remained high and sales rates for October and November were both ratcheted higher.
Analysts polled by Reuters had expected sales to increase to a rate of 1.100 million units from the originally reported 1.082 million rate for November.
The durable goods report, which provides an important reading on the health of the manufacturing sector, showed weakness across a broad range of products.
Orders for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft -- seen as a proxy for future business spending -- fell 0.4 percent. Economists have said a sustained pickup in business spending is crucial for a sustained economic recovery.
Orders of computers and electronic products, which dropped 2.7 percent, and orders for fabricated metal goods, which slipped 0.8 percent, were other weak spots.
In contrast, demand for transportation equipment rose 1.4 percent amid stronger orders for cars and aircraft. 
Excluding transportation, durable goods orders were down 0.7 percent, while orders excluding military equipment rose 0.2 percent.
The housing report showed that sales of single-family houses increased 11.5 percent last year, with a record 1.085 million houses sold as the lowest mortgage rates in a generation fueled buying.
Some analysts say the housing market, which has been a pillar of strength since the recovery sank into recession in early 2001, will not be able to rise much higher.
"The contribution to growth from that sector is ebbing," said Kathleen Stephansen, an economist at Credit Suisse First Boston in New York.
However, mortgage rates have dipped this month to levels not seen since July, which should offer more support to sales.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Removing snow from a home under construction in Cedar Grove, N.J. (Photo by Bloomberg News) Graph: "New-Home Sales"Graph tracks the annual pace inthousands of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted from July 2002-Dec. 2003. Dec.: -5.1%Nov.: -2.8Oct.: +1.8 (Source by Commerce Department) Graph: "Prices of New Homes"Graph tracks the median price for new homes in thousands of dollars from July 2002-Dec. 2003. Dec.: -3.3%Nov.: +6.1Oct.: +0.3 (Source by Commerce Department) Graph: "New-Home Sales"Graph tracks the annual pace in thousands of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted from July 2002-Dec. 2003 Dec.: -5.1%Nov.: -2.8Oct.: +1.8 (Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); STATISTICS (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); RETAILERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



721 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Fed Statement Gives Investors A Rude Shock

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve's announcement yesterday that it had withdrawn its promise to keep short-term interest rates low "for a considerable period" shocked both the stock and bond markets, with the three major stock indexes dropping more than 1.3 percent and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note shooting up sharply. 
 With its announcement, Fed policy makers took away what had been a security blanket for investors: a promise to keep the benchmark interest rate low as the economy picked up steam. That pledge was made in August, when members of the Federal Open Market Committee added these words to a statement after their meeting: "The committee believes that policy accommodation can be maintained for a considerable period." 
 That promise was repeated as the economy grew, and it helped to keep longer-term rates low. As recently as last week, the 10-year Treasury yield was below 4 percent, more than half a percentage point lower than it was in September. 
After yesterday's bond sell-off, the yield was back up to 4.20 percent. This surge came even though the Fed left its benchmark rate, the federal funds rate, at 1 percent. But it is not yet clear to investors precisely what the policy makers now intend. While committee members abandoned the "considerable period" language, they replaced it with a promise to be "patient" with any move to raise its short-term interest rate benchmark. 
In the confusion yesterday, the selling of stocks and bonds seemed to show that some investors thought an interest rate increase could come sooner than expected. Investors also appeared to think that an increase could come soon enough to rescue the sinking dollar, which rose more than 1 percent against the euro after the Fed's 2:15 p.m. announcement. 
Still, many analysts argued yesterday that the change in Fed policy -- made in a statement concluding its two-day meeting on interest rates -- was much less significant than it first appeared and was not a sign that the Fed would be raising its benchmark interest rate anytime soon. Economists at several Wall Street firms said the announcement did not affect their forecasts for the timing of a Fed rate increase, which range from this spring to sometime in 2005.
David J. Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley, said the biggest news was the timing of the announcement, which came when Fed officials had to know it was not expected and could therefore spark a sell-off of bonds and stocks. The Fed usually orchestrates its policy moves carefully, with public hints ahead of time.
Mr. Greenlaw suggested that Fed officials might be getting worried about the extent of the rebound in the financial markets, with the Dow Jones industrial average up as much as 8 percent since Dec. 9, the date of the last meeting of policy makers, and interest rates lower. 
"There is more evidence of exuberance in the financial markets," Mr. Greenlaw said.
But until the intention of Fed policy makers is made clear, the stock and bond markets could become much more volatile as investors try to interpret the impact of new economic data. 
For example, if an employment report due out next week shows strong job growth in January, it could spark a big sell-off in bonds, pushing yields higher, and may even worry stock investors. This is because without the Fed's security blanket, each bit of stronger data could be seen as another step toward a rate increase, which could slow or even stall the stock market rally. 
A report on the growth of the economy in the fourth quarter, due out tomorrow, could also worry investors if it is very strong. The consensus forecast is for growth of as much as 5 percent at an annual rate.
The most significant immediate effect of this new signal from the Fed is that it will be much harder for Treasury, home mortgage and corporate interest rates to continue to drift lower.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to as low as 3.96 percent last week, from 4.38 percent on Jan. 2. The average national rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage fell to 5.64 percent on Jan. 22 from 6.02 percent on Dec. 5, according to Freddie Mac.
Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG/Hoenig, said some strategists have predicted that longer-term interest rates could fall even further in the near term. But the Fed change, he said, "makes that story much more difficult." 
Bill Dudley, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs, played down the importance of today's shift. 
"It is not as big a change as people think. The data is really what drives the Fed," he said. "I don't think the Fed's fundamental thinking has changed," and that means, he added, that with inflation low, rates can remain unchanged for some time.
Goldman is forecasting that the Fed will not raise interest rates until the middle of 2005, a forecast that remains unchanged, Mr. Dudley said.
Mr. Greenlaw of Morgan Stanley said he was not changing his prediction that a rate increase will come in August. But, he said, "if I were predicting no rate hike in 2004, I would be nervous now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange watched news of the Federal Reserve's announcement, which shook financial markets. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); EURO (73%) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



722 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
A researcher sees anupside in the outsourcing of programming jobs.

BYLINE:  By Virginia Postrel; Virginia Postrel is the author of "The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness," published by HarperCollins.

 BODY:
MANY American computer programmers complain that they're losing their jobs to lower-paid workers in India. The trend toward foreign "outsourcing" has become a political flashpoint.
 But the trend is less frightening and more promising than you'd think from either the angry talk from unemployed programmers or the scary estimates from consulting firms, argues Catherine L. Mann, an economist at the Institute for International Economics in Washington. 
 First, the end of the technology boom, the general economic slump, and the downturn in manufacturing -- not foreign programming competition -- account for most job losses. Most estimates, Dr. Mann notes, compare the peak of the business cycle and technology boom with today's sluggish economy. That's not a valid comparison. 
Compared with the end of 1999, which was still a good time for programmers, December 2003 data show a 14 percent increase in business and financial occupations, a 6 percent increase in computer and mathematical jobs, and a 2 percent drop in architecture and engineering jobs. New programming jobs may be springing up in India, but they aren't canceling out job growth in the United States.
The problem for white-collar professionals, as for line workers, is that manufacturing is still in a slump. "When the production floor doesn't produce any more, the people in the window offices around the building also start to lose their jobs," Dr. Mann says. 
Over the long run, she argues, the globalization of software and computer services will enhance American productivity growth and create new higher-value, higher-paid technical jobs.
What's happening now to software and services has already happened to hardware, with great economic results.
In the late 1980's, Asian manufacturers began turning out basic memory chips, undercutting American chip makers' prices and inciting a fierce policy debate. Many industry leaders argued that the United States would lose its technological edge unless the government intervened to protect chip makers.
In a famous 1988 Harvard Business Review article, Charles Ferguson, then a postdoctoral associate at the Center for Technology Policy and Industrial Development at M.I.T., summed up the conventional wisdom: "Most experts believe that without deep changes in both industry behavior and government policy, U.S. microelectronics will be reduced to permanent, decisive inferiority within 10 years."
He denounced the "fragmented, chronically entrepreneurial industry" of Silicon Valley, which was losing market share to government-aided Asian businesses. "Only economists moved by the invisible hand," he wrote, "have failed to apprehend the problem."
Those optimistic economists were right. The dire predictions were wrong. American semiconductor makers shifted to higher-value microprocessors. Computer companies bought commodity memory chips and other components, from keyboards to disk drives, abroad. Businesses and consumers enjoyed cheaper and cheaper prices.
Far from an economic disaster, the result was a productivity boom. As global manufacturing helped to reduce the price of information technology sharply, all sorts of businesses, from banks to retailers, found new, more productive ways to use the technology.
"Globalized production and international trade made I.T. hardware some 10 to 30 percent less expensive than it otherwise would have been," Dr. Mann estimates in an institute policy brief. (Her paper, "Globalization of I.T. Services and White-Collar Jobs: The Next Wave of Productivity Growth," can be downloaded at iie.com.)
As a result, she estimates, gross domestic product grew about 0.3 percentage point a year faster than it would have otherwise, adding up to $230 billion over the seven years from 1995 to 2002. "That's real money," she said in an interview.
By building the components for new integrated software systems inexpensively, offshore programmers could make information technology affordable to business sectors that haven't yet joined the productivity boom: small and medium-size businesses, health care and construction. 
"Bringing those sectors up to at least the average will raise U.S. G.D.P. growth again," Dr. Mann notes. "And that's the second wave of productivity growth."
In addition to the economic benefits, she argues that improved information management could significantly improve health care, reducing paperwork and guarding against treatment mistakes like dangerous drug interactions.
That doesn't mean your health records will be in India, however. To the contrary, the health care system is probably too convoluted for someone far away to understand.
Rather, like hardware, software can be divided into components, basic building blocks of integrated systems. While those components may be developed abroad, integrating them into a useful system requires more specific knowledge of the client organization or its legal environment.
As with putting together hardware, building software systems is likely to happen locally. There will be less demand for basic programming and more demand for higher-value, higher-paid systems integration.
These projections aren't much comfort, of course, to unemployed programmers. While their skills may be in demand, Dr. Mann explains, those jobs may be in new industries -- a hospital, for instance, rather than at I.B.M. -- and therefore be harder to find. Or programmers may need new training to move into systems integration jobs.
To encourage companies to invest in such training, Dr. Mann argues for a "human capital investment tax credit," similar to the credit for investing in physical equipment. She also believes that the federal aid given to displaced manufacturing workers should be extended to cover information industries. And she suggests that information technology itself may help with job searches, crossing the old boundaries of classified ads.
But, she argues, acknowledging individual hardships shouldn't detract from the bigger picture.
"There is no question that the downside anecdote -- the well-trained person losing their job -- is a story that people identify with," Dr. Mann says. "They simply don't identify with the story of the person who changed their job and does three times better."
"Most of the stories are about downside loss, not about upside gain," she adds, "and there is a lot of upside gain."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Hewlett-Packard worker in Bangalore, India, monitors an assembly line. Software and services are undergoing the shift abroad that has already occurred in hardware. (Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (88%); SEMICONDUCTORS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); MARKET SHARE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (71%); MEMORY CHIPS (67%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



723 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: The Fed Statement on Rates 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to leave interest rates unchanged: 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate at 1 percent. 
 The committee continues to believe that an accommodative stance of monetary policy, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing important ongoing support to economic activity. The evidence accumulated over the intermeeting period confirms that output is expanding briskly. 
 Although new hiring remains subdued, other indicators suggest an improvement in the labor market. Increases in core consumer prices are muted and expected to remain low. 
 The committee perceives that the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth for the next few quarters are roughly equal. The probability of an unwelcome fall in inflation has diminished in recent months and now appears almost equal to that of a rise in inflation. With inflation quite low and resource use slack, the committee believes that it can be patient in removing its policy accommodation. 
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Ben S. Bernanke; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson Jr.; Edward M. Gramlich; Thomas M. Hoenig; Donald L. Kohn; Cathy E. Minehan; Mark W. Olson; Sandra Pianalto; and William Poole. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



724 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Tribune Posts 75% Increase in Earnings 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
Fourth-quarter net earnings rose 75 percent at the Tribune Company as it benefited from the sale of a minority holding and better-than-expected operating gains in its newspaper and broadcasting divisions.
 Tribune, whose holdings include 13 daily newspapers, more than two dozen television stations and the Chicago Cubs, also reported slight improvement in once-lagging advertising revenues. 
 Net income for the last three months of 2003 was $338.4 million, or $1 a share, compared with $193.5 million, or 57 cents a share, a year earlier.
The results included a $114 million nonoperating gain, $100 million of it from the sale to Comcast of its 8.6 percent stake in The Golf Channel.
Revenue rose 3 percent, to $1.47 billion, from $1.43 billion. The newspaper group, which includes The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tribune, Newsday and the Spanish-language Hoy, had a revenue increase of 2 percent, to $1.08 billion, and an 8 percent increase in profit, to $260 million.
Retail, national and classified advertising revenue all posted increases of less than 10 percent, providing hope for more significant growth in 2004 after a long lean period because of the unsettled economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); BASEBALL (72%) NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; PAPER AND PAPER PRODUCTS 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (58%) TRIBUNE CO (TRB) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



725 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Senate Passes A Bill to Cover Pension Plans 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The Senate overwhelmingly passed legislation yesterday that would save companies an estimated $80 billion on their pension contributions over the next two years, but it was unclear whether the Bush administration would support the measure.
 Companies that sponsor traditional pension plans have been coping with several years of bad market conditions, and the Senate bill is intended to tide them through until the climate improves. The centerpiece of the bill is a temporary change in the way companies calculate -- in today's dollars -- the amount they owe their employees in the future. The change would make these obligations look smaller, which in turn would allow the companies to set aside less money today. 
 The Senate bill also contains several provisions intended to help airlines, steel companies, unions that operate pension plans and certain other employers deal with individual pension problems. The government has estimated these provisions would save those companies $16 billion, bringing the total savings to about $96 billion.
The bill will have to be reconciled with one of two pension bills passed by the House last year. All three pending bills agree on the change in pension calculations, but the House bills offer little or none of the additional relief that the Senate contemplates. 
The Bush administration has repeatedly expressed skepticism about such pension breaks for individual companies or sectors. Last week, three cabinet members issued a warning against pension legislation that "encourages firms to underfund their pensions." 
One company, United Parcel Service, has already backed away from a measure addressing its pension concerns, saying it does not think the political climate is right. Last year, U.P.S. had garnered considerable support on the Hill for a measure that would have limited its exposure to a type of pension obligations stemming from its participation in plans run by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. But that measure was not included in the bill passed yesterday, and a U.P.S. spokesman said the company had decided the chances for such a measure in an election year were poor.
If the Senate bill becomes law, the new way of calculating pensions would stay in force for two years. Pension specialists are hoping Congress will use those two years to make fundamental changes in the pension law itself, so that when the breather expires, the system does not simply lapse back to today's troublesome state. The existing pension law has been widely criticized as overly complex and ineffective at keeping pension funds healthy.
For airlines, the Senate bill could be a particular boon. It contains a special reprieve to companies whose pension plans have developed severe, lasting deficits. Almost all of the big airlines, as well as certain steel companies, fit that description, and the bill specifically offers the special break to those two sectors. But it also contains language allowing other companies to apply for the relief, as long as the Treasury does not specifically refuse them. 
Normally, companies with severely underfunded pension plans must make a series of accelerated catch-up payments to revive their plans before they become irretrievable. The Senate provision would waive 80 percent of these required catch-up payments for the first year, and 60 percent for the second. The big airlines -- particularly United and Northwest -- have lobbied hard for such relief. So has the union that represents pilots at all of the major airlines except American. 
United in particular would benefit. The airline, a unit of UAL, has been operating in bankruptcy protection for more than a year, and has said that it must restructure the payments coming due to its employee pension funds if it is to emerge successfully. Most members of Congress have been receptive to the airline's concerns, given its grave condition in an election year.
But the possibility of special pension-financing waivers for certain companies and sectors has drawn complaints from other businesses that do not offer pensions to their workers. Dan DiMicco, the chief executive of the Nucor steel company, recently wrote to several senators saying he considered the special waivers to be an unfair subsidy that would help rival steel makers at his company's expense. He wrote that such a subsidy might lead to trade retaliation from other countries.
"Such subsidies are wrong whether they are provided in Poland or Pittsburgh," said Mr. DiMicco, who addressed his comments to senators from more than 20 states where Nucor has operations. Nucor, which has its headquarters in Charlotte, N.C., offers a 401(k) retirement program to its workers, and those benefits do not have to be funded in the way traditional pensions do. 
The offer of waivers for companies with severe pension problems has also drawn fire from the Bush administration. Last week, the secretaries of Treasury, Labor and Commerce wrote a letter to the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, warning him that they would recommend that President Bush veto any legislation that contained "provisions that would significantly further exacerbate systemic pension plan underfunding." 
The three cabinet secretaries make up the board of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the federal agency that insures pensions. The agency's financial health has deteriorated significantly over the last two years, raising concerns of a possible taxpayer bailout. Their letter to Senator Frist did not explain precisely what would constitute unacceptable provisions.
A second contentious measure in the bill would allow pension plans run by unions to delay the recognition of their recent investment losses. That, in turn, would make such plans look healthier than they do under the current rules, easing the pressure on the companies that must pay for the benefits. 
The pension agency runs a separate insurance program for union-led pension plans, which are known as multiemployer plans. These plans have posed little problem for the government in the past, but the pension agency recently reported that its multiemployer program was now in a precarious state. Much of the risk is concentrated in a few industries like trucking, the agency said. The most troubled plan appears to be the Teamsters' Central States pension fund, the same one that has caused consternation at U.P.S.
Even though U.P.S. has withdrawn from that particular issue, Senator Trent Lott has sponsored a provision of the bill that would help a different delivery company, CNF, deal with the Central States' plan. The Teamsters have been considering a lawsuit against CNF on behalf of the plan, and Senator Lott's amendment would switch the burden of proof from the company to the union. 
The Senate bill also contains language that would let Greyhound treat its pension plan as if it were fully funded when in fact it is not. Greyhound, a unit of Laidlaw, has said relief is appropriate because its pension plan covers an unusually old group of workers and retirees. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (54%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (54%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



726 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Revival of U.S. Shipbuilding Is Set Back by German Storm 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
An ambitious plan by Congress to revive the American commercial shipbuilding industry is under water -- quite literally.
 In a German shipyard, submerged in 36 feet of water and lying on its side, is Pride of America, a 15-story, 77,000-ton vessel that was to be the first new oceangoing cruise ship in nearly 50 years to be registered in the United States. For four years, Congress has encouraged the project with loan guarantees and special-interest legislation that critics called pork, but backers said would make America competitive in an industry dominated by foreigners. 
 At the moment, however, Pride of America -- the centerpiece of a two-ship project that started out in a Mississippi shipyard -- is listing at 15 degrees in the Lloyd Werft shipyard in Bremerhaven, Germany, where it was taken last year to be completed. A winter storm with winds over 100 miles an hour hit the shipyard two weeks ago, flooding 3 of the ship's 15 decks with water. 
"This is a case of where the sunk costs are really sunk," said Stephen Moore, president of Club for Growth, a Washington nonprofit group that advocates limited government. "Here the taxpayer ended up paying $180 million for a ship that may never sail and may not create jobs."
Until the accident, Pride of America had been scheduled to begin Hawaiian cruises on the Fourth of July in what was to be a patriotic kickoff. Norwegian Cruise Line acquired the ship last year when it was a half-finished hull -- picking it up for $24 million after a shipyard in Pascagoula, Miss., fell behind schedule and over budget. The cruise ship company originally involved in the project, American Classic Voyages, had gone bankrupt and the federal government had to pay $180 million to make good on its loan guarantees.
When it was first conceived, the effort, called Project America, was championed by Senator Trent Lott, a Mississippi Republican, as a way to rebuild a dormant American shipbuilding industry in the Pascagoula shipyard where his father once worked. Original plans called for the construction of two ships, with $1 billion in federal loan guarantees. Besides the half-finished hull that Norwegian Cruise purchased, the company also took possession of 400 containers of parts for a second cruise ship that were also sent to Bremerhaven.
"It's almost like this project is jinxed," said Allen Walker, president of the Shipbuilders Council of America, a trade organization. "It's really unfortunate, and no one knows what's going to happen."
For Norwegian Cruise, the world's No.3 cruise ship company, its Hawaiian gamble now depends on the extent of damage and whether the ship can be refloated and repaired. If the damage is extensive enough - there are already reports of serious problems with the ship's diesel-electric propulsion system - it is possible that Pride of America might be scrapped entirely. Divers are currently examining leaks in the hull, while the ship's insurers wait for a damage report. 
"The shipyard right now is pumping out the water," said Susan Robison, a Norwegian Cruise spokeswoman. "Once we're able to refloat the ship, we will be able to assess the damage."
The cruise line had planned to spend $340 million to turn the half-finished hull into a modern cruise ship for 2,200 passengers with patriotic decor. A bald eagle and waving flag were to have decorated the hull.
How Norwegian Cruise came to acquire Pride of America is a tale of both business and politics. The bankruptcy of the original company making the ship left the United States government with a half-finished vessel that no one was interested in buying -- except for Norwegian Cruise and a few scrap companies. To make the deal more attractive to Norwegian Cruise, Congress had to become involved.
Through special-interest legislation pushed through by the Hawaiian Congressional delegation, Pride of America was allowed to qualify under United States law for a special privilege -- the ability to sail solely between American ports, without having to touch base on foreign soil as foreign vessels must, wasting valuable sailing days. This provision was included in the fine print of the 2003 appropriations bill and came about even though Norwegian Cruise is a subsidiary of the Malaysian-based Star Cruises and the ship would no longer be American-made.
A second Norwegian Cruise ship, the Norwegian Sky, will, meanwhile, be renamed Pride of Aloha and will begin Hawaiian cruises on July 4. While all foreign vessels sailing to Hawaii must touch base in either Mexico or Canada, thousands of miles away, Congress -- as part of the special-interest legislation -- also allowed Norwegian Sky to be registered as a United States vessel, allowing it to sail from the American mainland directly to Hawaii or to go straight from one Hawaiian port to another.
While passengers who bought tickets on Pride of America will be transferred to Pride of Aloha, Americans who sought jobs on the stricken vessel -- which is required by law to have a United States crew -- may be out of luck.
Initial plans called for Pride of America and Pride of Aloha to each have about 1,000 employees. So far, Norwegian Cruise has offered jobs to 1,100 people on Pride of Aloha, but has suspended its hiring plans for Pride of America. Hawaii's Congressional delegation, which has strongly backed Norwegian Cruise's plans in the hopes of gaining up to 10,000 new jobs in Hawaii, is disappointed.
"Obviously I'm very, very sorry to hear about this, " said Representative Neil Abercrombie, Democrat of Hawaii, who pushed the special-interest bill late last year. "It's not exactly what we wanted."
Senator Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii, another Democrat, called the accident "disheartening."
Mr. Walker of the Shipbuilders Council, which represents American shipyards, said he took some comfort in the fact that the program, which was meant to rebuild American commercial shipbuilding skills, did not fall apart at an American shipyard.
"For my perspective," he said, "it's nice to see something that's not the fault of a U.S. shipyard. There are many who think foreign shipyards are Mecca and U.S. shipyards are not what they should be. This shows problems can occur to anyone."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Pride of America at a German shipyard after a winter storm two weeks ago flooded 3 of the ship's 15 decks. (Photo by Ingo Wagner/European Press Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHIPBUILDING (94%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); CRUISES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); JOB CREATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%) SHIPBUILDING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (54%)

TICKER: NCLH (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (54%)

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BREMEN, GERMANY (92%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (95%); NORWAY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



727 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
KB TOYS TO CLOSE STORES AND CUT JOBS

BYLINE:  Reuters

 BODY:
 The bankrupt toy retailer KB Toys Inc. said yesterday that it would close at least 30 percent of its stores and cut 29 percent of its jobs as it tries to revamp itself in time for the 2004 holiday shopping season. 
KB Toys, controlled by the private equity firm Bain Capital, said it planned to close at least 375 stores and lay off about 3,500 of its 12,000 employees. KB, based in Pittsfield, Mass., filed for bankruptcy this month. KB, which runs mostly mall-based stores, said it received bankruptcy court approval to hire three companies, the Ozer Group, the Nassi Group and the SB Capital Group, to conduct store-closing inventory sales in at least 356 stores, beginning Jan. 29.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); CLOSINGS (88%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (86%); PRIVATE EQUITY (84%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (52%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: KB TOYS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



728 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Fear ofRising Interest Rates Sends Markets Into Decline

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday after the Federal Reserve unexpectedly dropped its commitment to hold interest rates low "for a considerable period," causing concern that higher borrowing costs will slow growth in corporate profits.
 Homebuilders like Centex, KB Home and Pulte Homes led the decline. Mortgage lenders, including Wells Fargo and Washington Mutual, also dropped. 
 "The Fed was eventually going to have to say there will be a period where we will have to raise rates," Robert W. Smith, who manages the $5.8 billion T. Rowe Price Growth Stock Fund, said in an interview. "The market, while it knew it was coming, didn't want to believe it was today." 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 15.57 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,128.48, dropping for the fourth day in five. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 141.55 points, or 1.3 percent, to 10,468.37. The Dow and S.&P. 500 had their biggest declines since Oct. 22.
 The Nasdaq composite index lost 38.67 points, or 1.8 percent, to 2,077.37, its largest decline since Dec. 9.
 Eleven stocks fell for every four that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. More than 1.8 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 34 percent above average for the last three months.
 Centex, which has doubled in the last year, slid $6.82, to $104.98. KB Home fell $4.60, to $66.56, and Pulte Homes dropped $1.45, to $43.71. The S.&P. 500's consumer discretionary index, which includes the three homebuilders, dropped 2.4 percent, the biggest decline among the benchmark's 10 industry groups.
 A disappointing report on home sales also hurt builder stocks. Sales of new homes unexpectedly fell in December to an annual pace of 1.06 million, the slowest in eight months.
 Bank stocks also declined. Wells Fargo, the biggest United States mortgage lender, slipped 35 cents, to $57.06. Washington Mutual, the second biggest, fell 48 cents, to $43.85, while Golden West Financial lost $2, to $101.50.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two biggest buyers of home loans, dropped. Fannie Mae lost $1.89, to $76.46, and Freddie slipped $2.38, to $62.20.
 Other losers included Amazon.com, down $3.78, to $51.96. The company, the world's biggest Internet retailer, earned 29 cents a share in the fourth quarter, excluding some costs, matching analysts' estimates. Amazon.com had beaten quarterly forecasts for the last two years.
 Tenet Healthcare, which is being investigated by the federal government over its billing practices, declined $2.97, or 18 percent, to $13.18 for the biggest decline in the S.&P. 500. The company said it would sell 27 of its 100 hospitals and take a $1.4 billion fourth-quarter charge.
 Tupperware fell $1.95, to $17.25, the second-biggest decline in the S.&P. 500. The company, which sells plastic food containers, said fourth-quarter profit fell 21 percent as North American sales slumped.
 Time Warner, the media company, lost 85 cents, to $17.96. The company's cable television unit signed up 182,000 customers in the fourth quarter for Road Runner, its high-speed Internet service, fewer than some analysts had forecast. Its shares had increased 38 percent in the last year.
 Gainers included Flextronics International, up $1.37, to $18.44. The company, which makes electronics for other companies, said profit excluding some costs would be 9 cents to 11 cents a share this quarter. The average estimate of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call is 8 cents. 
 St. Jude Medical, a maker of devices to regulate heartbeats, rose $3.16, to $68.55. The company said fourth-quarter profit climbed 27 percent to 51 cents a share, beating the 47-cent estimate in a Thomson First Call poll.
 Avaya, which makes office phone equipment, added $2.44, or 16 percent, to close at $17.85, for the largest jump in the S.&P. 500. The company said it earned $30 million in its first quarter, compared with a $125 million loss a year ago, on higher sales of gear that lets businesses use the Internet to make cheaper phone calls. The stock had the biggest gain in the S.&P. 500 last year.
 Network Associates, which makes McAfee computer security software, added $1.66, to $17.77. The company earned $41.3 million, or 24 cents a share, in the fourth quarter as sales fell less than 1 percent. The company lost $11.2 million, or 7 cents, in the period a year earlier.
 Treasury prices fell yesterday on the Fed news. The price of the benchmark 10-year note fell by 31/32 to 105 15/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.20 percent from 4.08 percent on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); RETAILERS (64%); INTERNET RETAILING (60%) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); KB HOME CORP (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (58%); PULTEGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (85%); KBH (NYSE) (58%); PHM (NYSE) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



729 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: The Dead Center 

BYLINE:  By Robert B. Reich; Robert B. Reich, former United States secretary of labor, is a professor of social and economic policy at Brandeis University and the author of the forthcoming "Reason: Why Liberals Will Win the Battle for America."

 BODY:
The dismal fifth-place showing by Senator Joseph Lieberman in the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday serves as both reminder and motivator to the other Democratic presidential candidates on what it will take to win in November. For so long now, everyone has assumed that recapturing the presidency depends on who triumphs in the battle between liberals and moderates within the party. Such thinking, though, is inherently flawed. The real fight is between those who want only to win back the White House and those who also want to build a new political movement -- one that rivals the conservative movement that has given Republicans their dominant position in American politics. 
 Senator Lieberman's defeat on Tuesday could be a good indicator of which side is ahead. To their detriment, Mr. Lieberman and the perennially dour Democratic Leadership Council have been deeply wary of any hint of a progressive movement, preferring instead an uninspired centrist message that echoes Republican themes. 
 On the other extreme is Howard Dean, who could be called the quintessential "movement" Democrat. His campaign is both grass-roots and reformist, and is based on the proposition that ordinary people must be empowered to "take back America." Similar threads can also be seen in the campaigns of Senators John Edwards and John Kerry. (Full disclosure: I've been helping Senator Kerry.) It was no accident after last week's caucuses in Iowa that a beaming Senator Edwards told supporters they had "started a movement to change America." 
I hope that Mr. Edwards and the others will stay on message -- and movement. After all, Democrats have seen what the Republican Party has been able to accomplish over the years. The conservative movement has developed dedicated sources of money and legions of ground troops who not only get out the vote, but also spend the time between elections persuading others to join their ranks. It has devised frames of reference that are used repeatedly in policy debates (among them: it's your money, tax and spend, political correctness, class warfare). 
It has a system for recruiting and electing officials nationwide who share the same world view and who will vote accordingly. And it has a coherent ideology uniting evangelical Christians, blue-collar whites in the South and West, and big business -- an ideology in which foreign enemies, domestic poverty and crime, and homosexuality all must be met with strict punishment and religious orthodoxy.
In contrast, the Democratic Party has had no analogous movement to animate it. Instead, every four years party loyalists throw themselves behind a presidential candidate who they believe will deliver them from the rising conservative tide. After the election, they go back to whatever they were doing before. Other Democrats have involved themselves in single-issue politics -- the environment, campaign finance, the war in Iraq and so on -- but these battles have failed to build a political movement. Issues rise and fall, depending on which interests are threatened and when. They can even divide Democrats, as each advocacy group scrambles after the same set of liberal donors and competes for the limited attention of the news media.
As a result, Democrats have been undisciplined, intimidated or just plain silent. They have few dedicated sources of money, and almost no ground troops. The religious left is disconnected from the political struggle. One hears few liberal Democratic phrases that are repeated with any regularity. In addition, there is no consistent Democratic world view or ideology. Most Congressional Democrats raise their own money, do their own polls and vote every which way. Democrats have little or no clear identity except by reference to what conservatives say about them.
Self-styled Democratic centrists, like those who inhabit the Democratic Leadership Council, attribute the party's difficulties to a failure to respond to an electorate grown more conservative, upscale and suburban. This is nonsense. The biggest losses for Democrats since 1980 have not been among suburban voters but among America's giant middle and working classes -- especially white workers without four-year college degrees, once part of the old Democratic base. Not incidentally, these are the same people who have lost the most economic ground over the last quarter-century.
Democrats could have responded with bold plans on jobs, schools, health care and retirement security. They could have delivered a strong message about the responsibility of corporations to help their employees in all these respects, and of wealthy elites not to corrupt politics with money. More recently, the party could have used the threat of terrorism to inspire the same sort of sacrifice and social solidarity as Democrats did in World War II -- including higher taxes on the wealthy to pay for what needs doing. In short, they could have turned themselves into a populist movement to take back democracy from increasingly concentrated wealth and power.
But Democrats did none of this. So conservatives eagerly stepped into the void, claiming the populist mantle and blaming liberal elites for what's gone wrong with America. The question ahead is whether Democrats can claim it back. The rush by many Democrats in recent years to the so-called center has been a pathetic substitute for candid talk about what the nation needs to do and for fueling a movement based on liberal values. In truth, America has no consistent political center. Polls reflect little more than reflexive responses to what people have most recently heard about an issue. Meanwhile, the so-called center has continued to shift to the right because conservative Republicans stay put while Democrats keep meeting them halfway.
Democrats who avoid movement politics point to Bill Clinton's success in repositioning the party in the center during the 1990's. Mr. Clinton was (and is) a remarkably gifted politician who accomplished something no Democrat since Franklin Delano Roosevelt had done -- getting re-elected. But his effect on the party was to blur rather than to clarify what Democrats stand for. As a result, Mr. Clinton neither started nor sustained anything that might be called a political movement.
This handicapped hisadministration from the start. In 1994, when battling for his health care proposal, Mr. Clinton had no broad-based political movement behind him. Even though polls showed support among a majority of Americans, it wasn't enough to overcome the conservative effort on the other side. By contrast, George W. Bush got his tax cuts through Congress, even though Americans were ambivalent about them. President Bush had a political movement behind him that supplied the muscle he needed.
In the months leading up to the 1996 election, Mr. Clinton famously triangulated -- finding positions equidistant between Democrats and Republicans -- and ran for re-election on tiny issues like V-chips in television sets and school uniforms. The strategy worked, but it was a Pyrrhic victory. Had Mr. Clinton told Americans the truth -- that when the economic boom went bust we'd still have to face the challenges of a country concentrating more wealth and power in fewer hands -- he could have built a long-term mandate for change. By the late 90's the nation finally had the wherewithal to expand prosperity by investing in people, especially their education and health. But because Mr. Clinton was re-elected without any mandate, the nation was confused about what needed to be accomplished and easily distracted by conservative fulminations against a president who lied about sex. 
As we head into the next wave of primaries, the Democratic candidates should pay close attention to what Republicans have learned about winning elections. First, it is crucial to build a political movement that will endure after particular electoral contests. Second, in order for a presidency to be effective, it needs a movement that mobilizes Americans behind it. Finally, any political movement derives its durability from the clarity of its convictions. And there's no better way to clarify convictions than to hone them in political combat.
A fierce battle for the White House may be exactly what the Democrats need to mobilize a movement behind them. It may also be what America needs to restore a two-party system of governance and a clear understanding of the choices we face as a nation.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Anthony Russo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); CAUCUSES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); RELIGION (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (90%); JOHN KERRY (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



730 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Elephants Can't Fly 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland 

 BODY:
A year ago, at the Davos World Economic Forum, I saw elephants fly. Yes, sir, right here in the Swiss Alps I saw big ideas defying gravity. At this year's Davos forum, though, all the elephants came crashing down. Turns out elephants can't fly after all -- and the world is a better place for it.
 Since Davos gathers together a sample of global leaders, business executives and social activists, it's a good place to take the world's pulse. Last year's Davos was dominated by three big ideas. The first was put forth by Bush officials that the U.S. not only was ready to invade Iraq largely on its own, but could also pull off regime change there without the help of either the U.N. or major allies -- France, Germany and Russia. 
 This year, Vice President Dick Cheney, who, more than any Bush official resisted cooperation with the U.N. in the Iraq war, made a firm, low-key defense of the U.S. policy. But after Mr. Cheney spoke, a "senior administration official" privately told reporters that the Bush team was ready to give the U.N. pretty much whatever authority it wanted to help oversee Iraq's transition to elections -- and the only thing standing in the way was whether the U.N. would assume the risks. It turns out that while there is no regime in the world the U.S. can't destroy on its own, there is also none that it can rebuild on its own.
Last year, France was indulging its illusion that it could galvanize all the antiwar, anti-U.S. sentiment to make itself the great global Uncola to America's Coca-Cola -- the new balancer to America. It would be a win-win for President Jacques Chirac. He would enhance his political stature at home by opposing America and make France the supreme power in Europe, marginalizing Britain.
A year later, France was not only unable to stop the war, but it paid a big price in Europe. "It turned out to be lose-lose for France," remarked Peter Schwartz, head of the Global Business Network. By going to such lengths to oppose the U.S., and by denouncing those Europeans who sided with America, France drove pro-U.S. Europeans, like Poland and Spain, deeper into the U.S. camp, noted Mr. Schwartz. This, in turn, gave Poland and Spain more backbone to resist German and French demands for greater control over E.U. affairs.
France was not quite the elephant it thought it was, and the winds of anti-Americanism couldn't carry it any farther than its real economic and military weight. Thud.
The last elephant to crash were the antiglobalization protesters, who almost shut Davos down the last two years. This year, they were nowhere. Maybe because this year it was the Western business executives who were besieging their colleagues from India and China. They wanted to hear from the Indians about how Western firms can shift more service jobs -- ranging from software design to reading X-rays -- to India, and from the Chinese how they can absorb more manufacturing. With the world's two biggest developing countries doing so well by globalizing in their own ways, it's no wonder much of the hot air has come out of the antiglobalization movement, which never did have any real alternative growth strategy.
So in the end, the laws of gravity in geopolitics and geoeconomics brought everyone back to earth.
"What we have here are not friendships regained but lost illusions," says Josef Joffe, editor of Germany's Die Zeit. "With the Bush administration politely asking the U.N. for help in Iraq, Gulliver now realizes that . . . the most important interests require legitimacy and cooperation, especially in Iraq. The French and Germans learned that by trying to make the giant stumble, they ended up splitting Europe. So now you have this teeth-gnashing effort at rapprochement. It is a sobering up and a rethinking of power on both sides of the Atlantic -- and no one is having fun doing it. . . . The Bush team has not really been converted to a more generous view of diplomacy, and the Europeans still have their fears and own agenda."
In short, gravity has moderated everyone's behavior, but big disagreements about how to order the world still lurk beneath this surface calm. Any new big crisis could bring them all to the surface. So enjoy this calm, but don't look underneath. French foreign affairs expert Thierry de Montbrial told me that this moment reminded him of a joke: Mikhail Gorbachev was once asked how -- in one word -- he would sum up the Soviet economy. "Good," he said. Then he was asked how -- in two words -- he would sum up the Soviet economy: "Not good," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); IRAQ WAR (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (69%); JACQUES CHIRAC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); ALPS (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); IRAQ (93%); SPAIN (91%); GERMANY (90%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



731 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE VOTERS; 
Kerry Support Found Across Wide Range of Democrats

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM and JANET ELDER

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Jan. 28 

 BODY:
For two weeks in a row, Senator John Kerry has demonstrated broad support among Democratic voters across economic, ideological and demographic lines.
 Surveys of voters entering the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 19 and leaving polling places in New Hampshire on Tuesday showed that Mr. Kerry did better than his rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination in practically every voter category: among men, women, the young, the old, Catholics, Protestants, rich, poor, those with advanced degrees, those with only a high school diploma, voters who consider themselves fairly liberal and those who say they are moderate or conservative. 
 Even when his opponents made specific appeals to voter groups -- as Howard Dean did with those under 30 and those who opposed the Iraq war, for example -- they were generally unable to do any better than Mr. Kerry, and sometimes did worse. 
In New Hampshire, Democrats from union households and those with veterans in the family favored Mr. Kerry, the junior senator from neighboring Massachusetts. So did voters who have a gun in their homes.
Mr. Kerry's strongest support here was among the one in five voters who said the most important factor in making their choice was whether the candidate could defeat President Bush in November. More than three out five voters who felt this way voted for him.
If Mr. Kerry can sustain this broad-based support as the campaign spreads across the country this week, he will lock up the nomination in a matter of weeks.
But Democrats in Iowa and New Hampshire are not necessarily typical. They do not live in large urban areas, for instance, and there were too few members of minority groups for the surveys to measure meaningfully which candidates can appeal to African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans and Asian-Americans.
In addition, in the multicandidate contests, Mr. Kerry did not win as much as 40 percent of the vote in either state. The surveys in both contests showed that the voters were much more concerned about health care and the economy than about terrorism and Iraq.
The surveys were conducted by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International for a pool of the five television networks and The Associated Press.
In most instances, the other candidates did not finish ahead of Mr. Kerry even among groups of voters to whom they had tailored their campaigns.
For example, Dr. Dean, the former governor of Vermont, made special appeals to younger voters. In New Hampshire, he and Mr. Kerry each received about one-third of the votes from those under 30. In Iowa, Mr. Kerry received 35 percent of these votes and Dr. Dean 25 percent.
Mr. Kerry also did better than Dr. Dean among the Democratic voters here and in Iowa who disapprove of the decision to go to war in Iraq, the 7 in 10 in New Hampshire who favor giving gay couples the same legal rights as married couples and the half of the voters here who said they were angry at the Bush administration.
Three of the main elements of Dr. Dean's stump speech and television advertisements here were his early opposition to the war, his signing of legislation allowing gay men and lesbians to form civil unions in Vermont and his attacks on President Bush.
Overwhelmingly, the voters in both states objected to the war in Iraq, and 4 in 10 in New Hampshire said they disapproved "strongly." But Mr. Kerry, who voted to give the president the authority to go to war, won more support among these voters than Dr. Dean did.
About 4 New Hampshire voters in 10 said Dr. Dean, who led polls here for months before slipping into second place after the Iowa caucuses, lacked the temperament to be a successful president.
The turnout of more than 210,000 voters was a record for a Democratic primary in New Hampshire. More than half of those surveyed here said they had chosen a candidate in the week before the election. Twice as many of these people who decided late went for Mr. Kerry as for Dr. Dean.
Dr. Dean did receive more votes here than Mr. Kerry among some categories of voters. He got nearly half the vote, far more than any other candidate, from the less than 10 percent of all voters who said the most important quality in a candidate was his ability to "shake things up in Washington."
About half of the Democratic voters here called themselves liberals. Dr. Dean finished ahead of Mr. Kerry among the 15 percent who consider themselves "very liberal." Mr. Kerry did better among the others, who said they were "somewhat liberal."
And among the 90 percent of voters who favor repealing at least some of President Bush's tax cuts, Dr. Dean won a small plurality of the one-third who want to repeal the cuts entirely, and Mr. Kerry won a large plurality of those who want to cancel only the tax cuts of the wealthy.
Dr. Dean is the only candidate remaining in the Democratic field who advocates repealing the relatively small portion of the Bush tax measures that lower the taxes of the middle class, like tax credits for families with children and reduced taxes for some married couples with two incomes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ann Marie Couture asked polling questions of Donald Guy on Tuesday after he voted in Manchester, N.H. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) Chart: "POLL: Democrats in New Hampshire" PERCENTAGE OF ALL VOTERS 100%: TotalWHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 38DEAN: 26CLARK: 12EDWARDS: 12LIEBERMAN: 9 Age18-29Total: 14WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 33DEAN: 34CLARK: 11EDWARDS: 10LIEBERMAN: 8 30-44Total: 30WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 37DEAN: 25CLARK: 14EDWARDS: 13LIEBERMAN: 9 45-64Total: 45WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 41DEAN: 23CLARK: 12EDWARDS: 13LIEBERMAN: 8 65 or overTotal: 11WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 38DEAN: 28CLARK: 10EDWARDS: 10LIEBERMAN: 13 EducationHigh school graduateTotal: 15WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 43DEAN: 16CLARK: 17EDWARDS: 12LIEBERMAN: 9 Some collegeTotal: 27WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 37DEAN: 24CLARK: 12EDWARDS: 14LIEBERMAN: 12 College degreeTotal: 30WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 40DEAN: 23CLARK: 13EDWARDS: 14LIEBERMAN: 8 Postgraduate studyTotal: 26WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 37DEAN: 33CLARK: 12EDWARDS: 8LIEBERMAN: 8 Member of labor union in householdTotal: 23WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 38DEAN: 24CLARK: 15EDWARDS: 12LIEBERMAN: 9 Member of household has served in the U.S. militaryTotal: 43WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 39DEAN: 21CLARK: 15EDWARDS: 11LIEBERMAN: 11 Party identificationDemocratTotal: 48WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 41DEAN: 29CLARK: 11EDWARDS: 12LIEBERMAN: 5 Independent or otherTotal: 48WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 37DEAN: 23CLARK: 13EDWARDS: 13LIEBERMAN: 12 RepublicanTotal: 4WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: *DEAN: *CLARK: *EDWARDS: *LIEBERMAN: * Political philosophyVery liberalTotal: 15WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 30DEAN: 41CLARK: 13EDWARDS: 9LIEBERMAN: 3 Somewhat liberalTotal: 32WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 39DEAN: 33CLARK: 11EDWARDS: 10LIEBERMAN: 7 ModerateTotal: 45WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 43DEAN: 18CLARK: 13EDWARDS: 15LIEBERMAN: 10 ConservativeTotal: 9WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 33DEAN: 14CLARK: 11EDWARDS: 11LIEBERMAN: 23 Decided whom to supportWithin the last 3 days before the primaryTotal: 35WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 33DEAN: 25CLARK: 13EDWARDS: 16LIEBERMAN: 12 In the last weekTotal: 19WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 52DEAN: 15CLARK: 10EDWARDS: 14LIEBERMAN: 8 In the last monthTotal: 19WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 45DEAN: 19CLARK: 18EDWARDS: 9LIEBERMAN: 7 Before thatTotal: 26WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 31DEAN: 40CLARK: 8EDWARDS: 8LIEBERMAN: 7 Voted for candidate because he Can defeat George W. Bush in Nov.Total: 33WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 56DEAN: 14CLARK: 16EDWARDS: 11LIEBERMAN: 2 Agrees with you on major issuesTotal: 57WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 29DEAN: 29CLARK: 12EDWARDS: 14LIEBERMAN: 13 Opinion of the U.S. decision to go to war with Iraq last yearApproveTotal: 30WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 37DEAN: 12CLARK: 12EDWARDS: 16LIEBERMAN: 20 DisapproveTotal: 63WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 41DEAN: 30CLARK: 13EDWARDS: 10LIEBERMAN: 4 Issue that mattered most in deciding whom to supportHealth care/MedicareTotal: 28WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 43DEAN: 26CLARK: 7EDWARDS: 13LIEBERMAN: 9 Economy/jobsTotal: 22WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 48DEAN: 18CLARK: 10EDWARDS: 17LIEBERMAN: 6 War in IraqTotal: 19WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 33DEAN: 37CLARK: 17EDWARDS: 3LIEBERMAN: 8 EducationTotal: 10WHO THEY VOTED FORKERRY: 44DEAN: 23CLARK: 14EDWARDS: 12LIEBERMAN: 5 Based on questionnaires filled out by 1,846 voters across New Hampshire as they exited the Democratic primary on Tuesday. The survey was conducted by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International for the National Election Pool. Those with no opinion and those supporting other candidates are not shown.*Too few respondents. Chart: "Primary Results"Votes won on Tuesday by candidates in the New Hampshire Democratic primary:100 percent of vote counted John Kerry: 84,239 -- 38%Howard Dean: 57,788 -- 26Wesley K. Clark: 27,254 -- 12John Edwards: 26,415 -- 12Joseph I. Lieberman: 18,829 -- 9Dennis J. Kucinich: 3,104 -- 1Al Sharpton: 345 -- 0Others: 1,268 -- 1 (Source by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); COHABITATION (73%); GOVERNORS (71%); RELIGION (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); MARRIAGE (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); ASIAN AMERICANS (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (79%); AL SHARPTON (59%); DENNIS KUCINICH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (98%); IOWA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



732 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Bush Scaling Back Dollars for Third World 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
President Bush plans to scale back requests for money to fight AIDS and poverty in the third world, putting off for several years the fulfillment of his pledges to eventually spend more than $20 billion on these programs. 
 Hardest hit would be the United Nations-supported Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, whose contribution from the United States would drop to $200 million in fiscal year 2005 from $550 million, according to Congressional officials who have been briefed on the president's budget proposal. 
 Over all, however, Mr. Bush's programs to combat AIDS and poverty to the world's poorest nations still represent a big leap from those of the Clinton administration. 
The financing request to fight AIDS for the 2005 fiscal year would be nearly $2.7 billion. That includes an increase for bilateral programs to $2.5 billion from $1.9 billion. That is still less than the $3 billion expected when Mr. Bush promised in his State of the Union address last year to increase financing for combating H.I.V. and AIDS by $15 billion over the next five years.
"I would love to see the administration match the figures outlined in the president's speech," said Patrick Cronin, the former assistant administrator at the United States Agency for International Development."But for all of our quibbling, this is a serious commitment and these figures are still very good."
Nonprofit aid organizations complained on Wednesday that while the request represented an overall increase for some countries, it would be a blow to international cooperation in the fight against AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
"That's robbing Peter to pay Paul," said Jamie Drummond, executive director of DATA, a nonprofit organization created by the Irish rock star Bono to help Africa. "We will work with Congress to increase the contribution to the fund." 
In the fiscal 2004 budget, Congressmore than doubled the administration's orginal request of $200 million, giving the fund $550 million.
Richard G. A. Feachem, the executive director of the Global Fund, said in a telephone interview from Geneva that the United States is the single largest donor to the fund. 
"The United States is a very generous supporter and I do not believe it will diminish its contributions and will fully support the excellent work we are doing in 121 countries," he said.
The request for Millennium Challenge Account, a new development initiative that requires poor nations to meet criteria of good government in order to receive aid, will be $2.5 billion, down from the $3.3 billion expected this year. 
At a conference in 2002 in Monterrey, Mexico, Mr. Bush had promised to increase America's foreign aid budget by 15 percent a year -- or $5 billion over three years, the first real expansion in more than a decade.
Mr. Bush has highlighted the programs in his fund-raising speeches. He told an audience in St. Louis, this month that his administration had accepted its global duties to fight "disease, and starvation, and hopeless poverty."
"On the continent of Africa, this great country is now committed to bringing the healing power of medicine to millions of men, and women, and children now suffering with AIDS," he said. "This great, compassionate land is leading the world in this incredibly important work of human rescue." 
John Brennan, spokesman for Bread for the World, a nonprofit aid organization, said that Mr. Bush should match those words with higher financing figures.
"They are still short and I believe the president should live up to his original promises," Mr. Brennan said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MALARIA (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); TUBERCULOSIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); CELEBRITIES (74%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BONO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



733 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Pakistani Scientist Is Focus Of Atomic Sale Investigation 

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
Pakistani officials said Wednesday that their investigation into the sale of the nation's nuclear technology to Iran had now focused on Abdul Qadeer Khan, the father of Pakistan's atomic bomb, and that a "security ring" had been set up around his house five days ago to keep him from leaving the country. 
 But it was unclear whether the government had the political will, to bring charges against the widely revered scientist. 
 In Washington, senior administration officials said that the investigations under way in Pakistan were beginning to tie together a number of nuclear programs and that soon American officials would be able to draw conclusions about the black market that fueled all those efforts. They were apparently referring to programs in Iran, North Korea and Libya, all of which dealt with Pakistani scientists. 
The Bush administration is engaged in a delicate series of exchanges with Pakistan, encouraging the investigation of Dr. Khan and a handful of his closest aides for giving data obtained from Libya as it turns over nuclear designs and parts, and helping identify middlemen who sold parts for uranium enrichment and other technologies. 
But the White House says it is simply aiding Pakistan, not leading the investigation, making it clear that Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, is in control. General Musharraf has been strongly criticized for doing America's bidding in the investigation. 
In Islamabad, a senior official said, "All these investigations are pointing toward Dr. A. Q. Khan. But who provided what to whom, this is very difficult to establish." 
The investigation has led to the discovery of a nuclear smuggling network that one official called this week "a hydra-headed monster with its tentacles all over the world." 
Pakistani investigators are trying to trace the origins and history of "large amounts" of moneyfound in a series of bank accounts spread across the Persian Gulf region. The bank accounts, they say, were used by middlemen from Germany, the Netherlands, South Africa, Sri Lanka and other countries who Iranian officials say sold them nuclear hardware and centrifuge designs in the late 1980's and early 1990's.
Accounts in Dubai and other Persian Gulf locations believed to be controlled by Dr. Khan have also been found. Investigators are trying to determine whether Dr. Khan controlled some or all of the accounts.
Payments from Iran, they said, were at some point apparently funneled through a third party. 
"It's very difficult to track money," the senior official said. "We have some leads and these leads are credible. People are pointing fingers at certain individuals." 
Dr. Khan's annual salary as the head of the Khan Research Laboratories was $2,000 a month at the most, an official said. But the scientist purchased numerous houses in Pakistan and lived lavishly. A senior official said that whether the hardware came from Pakistan is still being investigated. But he said there were "strong indications" that Dr. Khan sold the design for the centrifuges that ended up in Iran. 
The official said that investigators widened their inquiry two weeks ago after receiving information from Libya that Pakistanis may have provided nuclear technology to Libya though middlemen based in Dubai. 
A senior intelligence official said intelligence agencies had noticed that Dr. Khan was amassing wealth but had chosen to look the other way. 
Dr. Khan did not respond to a call on Wednesday requesting comment. 
Pakistani officials say they began their inquiry in November after Iranian officials told United Nations inspectors that they had received nuclear hardware and information from middlemen with ties to Pakistanis. General Musharraf has said "some individuals" appeared to have sold nuclear technology for personal gain, and he has promised to punish them. 
Eleven employees of Khan Research Laboratories -- Pakistan's nuclear weapons producing facility -- had been detained for questioning since November. Officials said Wednesday that seven employees -- four scientists, who are close allies of Dr. Khan, and three retired military officials involved in security at the labs -- were still in detention. 
Dr. Khan has been repeatedly questioned but not detained. 
The government, which is dominated by the military, has questioned no senior military officials who were in power at the time. 
Relatives of the detained scientists and an array of Pakistani analysts have questioned how any scientist -- including Dr. Khan -- could remove hardware from the country without the knowledge of the army, which closely monitored the nuclear program. Relatives say the scientists are being scapegoated, while senior military officials go unpunished. 
Dr. Khan was accused of stealing a centrifuge design from a European company in the early 1970's. After returning to Pakistan, he ran a clandestine effort to buy the components needed to build thousands of precision centrifuges, which are used to produce highly enriched uranium, a key ingredient in a nuclear bomb. 
The senior government official said there was no indication that Dr. Khan had sold the technology to pay for Pakistan's nuclear program.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Bail for Suspect
WASHINGTON, Jan. 28, (Reuters) -- A federal judge on Wednesday granted bail to Asher Karni, 50, an Israeli citizen accused by the United States government of conspiring to send 200 American-made nuclear weapons detonators to Pakistan, dealing a setback to prosecutors who argued he might try to flee. 
Judge Thomas Hogan said Mr. Karni must remain in home detention at the Hebrew Sheltering Home in nearby Silver Spring, Md., and wear a monitoring device.
In addition to the $75,000 bond posted on his behalf by another individual, Mr. Karni also must commit $100,000 of his own money, he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); CENTRIFUGES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (67%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (73%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



734 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Fed Keeps 1% Rate, But Hints at a Rise Sometime This Year 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve left short-term interest rates at just 1 percent on Wednesday, the lowest level since 1958, but it jolted markets by retreating from its open-ended pledge to keep rates low for "a considerable period."
 Though subtle, the Fed's change in language after its two-day policy meeting surprised many economists because it suggested that the central bank might raise rates before the end of the year. 
 Prices on Treasury securities dropped, stocks declined and the dollar jumped in reaction to the news, though the markets recovered in part as analysts parsed the Fed's language in greater detail. The most significant near-term change from this new signal is that it will be much harder for home mortgage, corporate and Treasury interest rates to continue to edge lower. Page C1. 
By shifting its language, the Fed gains a bit more latitude in the timing of any rate increase, in case it detects any signs that the economy is at risk of overheating.
A close reading of the statement by the Fed suggested that its chairman, Alan Greenspan, remains unlikely to push for higher interest rates for several more months. As it has before, the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets monetary policy, reiterated its view that inflation remains low and that the economy still has a considerable amount of "slack" in the form of relatively high unemployment and large amounts of unused factory capacity.
"With inflation quite low and resource-use slack, the committee believes that it can be patient in removing its policy accommodation," the central bank said in its statement after the meeting. 
The distinction between keeping rates low for a "considerable period" and being "patient" is in many ways a nuance, but investors have interpreted the Fed's statements for the last several months as a promise that it would not raise rates until further notice. 
For many investors, the Fed's statement on Wednesday was tantamount tobeing served notice.
"Chairman Greenspan does not make changes unless he thinks there is good reason to do so," said Michael Prell, a former chief of research at the Federal Reserve. "Even though the difference between 'patient' and a 'considerable period' might sound like a superficial difference, they must have thought this would communicate news to the marketplace."
The Fed statement is not necessarily bad news for President Bush, even though it increases the possibility of higher interest rates soon before elections in November. Economists remain split between those who expect Mr. Greenspan to start tightening policy this summer and those who expect him to wait until early next year. Any changes in interest rates take several months to have a tangible effect on business activity and employment.
Over the last few weeks, many longtime Fed watchers became convinced that the central bank would make no changes in its language. Last month, the Fed startled markets by declaring that the risks of "an unwelcome fall in inflation" had diminished significantly and were almost equal to the risk of a unwanted rise in prices.
But the Fed retained its promise to keep rates low for "a considerable period," a move that led many analysts to conclude that the Fed could afford to adopt a wait-and-see stance.
Many economists were surprised and perplexed by the shift in language.
Robert V. DiClemente, a senior economist at Citigroup, said the Fed caught investors "flat footed" with its change in emphasis.
Ian C. Shepherdson, an economist at High Frequency Economics, said the Fed had "blind-sided the markets" but done so with so much ambiguity that its statement could be read in several different ways.
Lawrence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor, noted that the central bank shifted from past declarations about "remaining accommodative" to the more chilling formulation about "removing accommodation."
"This is an important change in body language," Mr. Meyer said. "The change in the language almost certainly carries a change in the message."
The Fed's shift may have more to do with its struggle over communications than with an imminent change in monetary policy. After reducing the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks to just 1 percent last summer, the Federal Reserve sought to reassure corporations and investors that it would keep rates low longer than it might have during past recoveries.
But many Fed officials have been uncomfortable with the promise to keep rates low for "a considerable period," because the central bank has traditionally avoided making even implicit commitments about future policy.
Mr. Greenspan recently organized a special committee to re-examine how it communicates policy to the public, and Fed officials have tried to clarify their commitment by linking changes in policy to signs of accelerating inflation and a pickup in the job market.
William C. Dudley, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs, said the Fed's statement on Wednesday was more about language than substance.
"We were clearly surprised," Mr. Dudley acknowledged. But he said the Fed continued to emphasize the same concerns it has for the last several months -- inflation that is almost uncomfortably low and "slack" in the economy.
"We think nothing fundamentally has changed," Mr. Dudley said. "The Fed thinks inflation is too low and it wants inflation to go up."
Mr. DiClemente of Citigroup agreed, though Citigroup recently moved up its own prediction of when the central bank would start to raise rates to late this summer from early next year.
"People have been arguing that the Fed was behind the curve," Mr. DiClemente said. But he added, "We still have some hurdles before there can be any tightening."
Richard Yamarone, chief economist at Argus Research in New York City, said Mr. Greenspan and the other Fed governors might have wanted to modify their language before getting any closer to the presidential elections. The Fed typically tries to avoid policy changes soon before elections, for fear of being accused of interfering in the political process.
"It would have been much more explosive if they had done this closer to the elections," Mr. Yamarone said.
The Fed's announcement came just two days before the government is scheduled to release its initial estimate of economic growth in the fourth quarter of 2003, and most economists are predicting that the economy grew at a strong annualized rate of 4.5 percent and possibly as high as 5 percent. Though slower than the torrid pace of the third quarter, that would still be much faster than many people had expected just a few months ago.
After its policy-setting meeting last month, the Open Market Committee created a buzz in financial markets by declaring that the chances of an "unwelcome fall in inflation" had diminished and were almost equal to the risks of a rise in prices. 
Since then, economists have been startled by initial reports showing that job creation came to a halt in December and that "core" inflation -- excluding the volatile food and energy sectors -- climbed at an annual rate of barely 1 percent in December. And on Wednesday, new data showed that orders for durable goods last month were much lower than had been expected.
"The rate of inflation is extremely low, arguably lower than they would like to see it," said Joshua Feinman, chief economist at Deutsche Asset Management in New York. "Combined with the notion that the economy still has some degree of slack in the labor and capital markets, that makes them a little uncomfortable."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Altered Expectations"A small change in wording caused investors to think the Fed will act sooner rather than later to raise rates. Monetary policy statement DEC. 9 " . . . the committee believes that policy accommodation can be maintained for a considerable period." YESTERDAY ". . . the committee believes that it can be patient in removing its policy accommodation." Fed funds futures Graph compares the interest rates of yesterday and Tuesday to the rate from Feb.-Dec. 2002. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); POLITICS (63%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



735 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-16

Weapons Inspector Seeks Iraq Intelligence Inquiry
David A. Kay, the former chief American weapons inspector in Iraq, called for an independent inquiry into pre-war intelligence about Saddam Hussein's weapons programs, but said he did not believe the Bush administration had pressured intelligence analysts to exaggerate the threat. A1

A senior British judge cleared Prime Minister Tony Blair and his government of any attempt to deceive the British public over the threat from Iraq mentioned in a September 2002 intelligence dossier. A1

A suicide bomber blew himself up in downtown Baghdad, shearing the facade off a hotel, killing at least 3 people and wounding more than 15. A12

The United States Army, strained by operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, will boost its forces by 30,000 through emergency authority that it expects to last four years, the Army's chief of staff told Congress. A12

Less Money for AIDS Programs
President Bush plans to scale back requests for money to fight AIDS and poverty in the third world, putting off the fulfillment of his pledges to eventually spend more than $20 billion for these programs. A15

Pakistani Scientist Suspected
Pakistani officials said their investigation into the sale of Pakistan's nuclear technology to Iran had now focused on Abdul Qadeer Khan, the father of Pakistan's atomic bomb. A12

Israeli Raid in Gaza Kills 8
Israeli troops charged into an industrial zone on the southern outskirts of Gaza City and fought gun battles that killed eight Palestinians, including militants and civilians, the two sides said. A14

China Kills Birds to Slow Virus
China began killing tens of thousands of birds in three provinces to curtail the spread of the deadly avian influenza, while Asian government officials pledged better cooperation and openness. A15

NATIONAL A18-24

Dean Chooses Gore Ally As New Campaign Leader
Howard Dean named Roy Neel, a longtime friend of former Vice President Al Gore, as his campaign chief, prompting his campaign manager, Joe Trippi, to walk out after an emotional afternoon staff meeting. A1

Missouri's best-known politicians raced to dole out endorsements as the Democratic presidential candidates arrived in the state, preparing for the primary election next Tuesday. A1

Democratic leaders expressed relief at the emergence of John Kerry as the leader of the party's presidential field, but they voiced concerns about his potential electoral liabilities. A21

Inquiry Into Terror Cases
The convictions of three men accused of taking part in a terror cell based in Detroit are in doubt amid growing turmoil within the city's offices of the federal prosecutor and the F.B.I. A23

Arrests in Smuggling Ring
Federal officials arrested 10 people who they said were operating the biggest tobacco import smuggling ring in United States history. A24

Increase in Arts Budget Sought
President Bush will seek a big increase in the budget of the National Endowment for the Arts, administration officials said. A24

Exxon Fined for Alaska Spill
A federal judge imposed $4.5 billion in punitive damages on Exxon Mobil Corporation, fifteen years after the Exxon Valdez spilled 11 million gallons of crude oil into the Prince William Sound in Alaska. A18

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Mars Rovers to Rove Soon
One of NASA's Mars rovers, the Spirit, disabled by a software glitch last week, could resume its explorations early next week and the other rover, the Opportunity, could start moving from its landing site as early as Sunday, mission managers said. A23

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

New York March 2 Primary Drawing Greater Attention
Some campaigns, who had thought the nomination would be decided long before Super Tuesday on March 2, are revising their strategies. B1

Taxi Fare Hike Proposed
The New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission proposed a 26 percent increase in fares, which, if passed, would be the first cab fare increase in eight years. B1

Rowland Invitation Criticized
Gov. John G. Rowland has invited all 71 Republicans in the Connecticut legislature to his residence on the eve of his annual State of the State address next Wednesday, but several members said that the invitation was inappropriate and they would not attend, citing the inquiry that could lead to his impeachment. B7

Neediest Cases B6

CIRCUITS G1-8

SPORTS D1-8

More Time Off for Net
Eddie Griffin, who spent much of November and December undergoing treatment for depression and substance abuse, told a Nets official that he was not ready to return, and flew to Houston to resume treatment. D6

HOUSE & HOME F1-12

OBITUARIES A25

ARTS E1-12

Writers Took Part at Davos
The World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, invited novelists and authors to participate in the discussions. E3

BUSINESS DAY C1-17

Fed Keeps Rate Low, for Now
The Federal Reserve left short-term interest rates at 1 percent but retreated from its pledge to keep rates low for "a considerable period." A1

The Fed's announcement shocked both the stocks and bonds, with the three major stock markets each dropping more than 1.3 percent and the yield on the Treasury 10-year note shooting up sharply. C1

Senate Passes Pension Bill
The Senate passed legislation that would save companies an estimated $80 billion dollars on their pension contributions. It was unclear whether the Bush administration would support the measure. C1

S. & P. to Alter Pricing Method
The Standard & Poor's Corporation, worried over unreliable pricing of some Nasdaq stocks, is planning to announce that it will start using American Stock Exchange closing prices for those stocks for its S.& P. 500 stock index. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Testing two leaders: Tony Blair, vindicated; George Bush, in denial. Francis X. Clines on a primary with a more varied complexion.
Columns: Thomas Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Bridge E9
TV Listings E11
Crossword E8
Weather C18
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); AIDS & HIV (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); JUDGES (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (64%); BIRDS (64%); INFLUENZA (63%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TONY BLAIR (56%); AL GORE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



736 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Arrests 10 as Members of Big Cigarette Smuggling Ring 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
The cartons of cigarettes carried familiar brand names like Marlboro and Marlboro Lights, and would fetch as much as $70 each in New York City.
 But in reality, federal officials charged Wednesday, many of the cigarettes were counterfeits, made in Asia for as little as $2 a carton and then smuggled into the United States. 
 In what they described as a major dent in the multibillion-dollar black market in tobacco products, officials on Wednesday arrested 10 people in five states who the authorities said had been running the biggest tobacco import smuggling ring in American history. The defendants are accused of smuggling more than 100 million cigarettes into the United States. 
Among the prime destinations of the black-market cigarettes, officials said, were Los Angeles, western Texas and New York State, including an unidentified Indian reservation in upstate New York.
The victims, officials said, were not only the tobacco companies whose products were counterfeited but also the federal government, which estimates that cigarette smuggling costs it more than a billion dollars a year in lost fees and revenue, and New York, California and Texas, which together were cheated out of at least $8 million.
The smugglers operated "a vast criminal conspiracy" and "sought to exploit the U.S. economy" by evading taxes and duty fees, said Michael T. Dougherty, who oversees immigration and customs enforcement operations for the Department of Homeland Security.
Federal officials identified the leader of the ring as Jorge Abraham, 34, of Sunland Park, N.M., who is charged in a 92-count indictment with conspiracy to smuggle cigarettes, wire fraud, money laundering and other offenses. Nine other people, in New York, Texas, Florida and California, were also arrested, and officials said an undisclosed number had been charged in indictments that remain under seal.
If convicted, Mr. Abraham faces not only a prison term but also fines and restitution of about $30 million and forfeiture of his $545,000 house in New Mexico. A telephone call to his lawyer on Wednesday was not returned.
Lou Garthe,who oversees tobacco enforcement at the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said a three-year investigation had found that traffickers under Mr. Abraham's direction had used two main methods to smuggle cigarettes, in a scheme that began in 2000 or earlier. 
In some cases, Mr. Garthe said, they bought low-grade cigarettes in China, Thailand and elsewhere, smuggled the cartons into the United States as boxes of toys or plastic products, and sold them on the black market as brand-name cigarettes. In other cases, he said, they imported authentic brand-name cigarettes into American ports but evaded taxes and duty fees by falsely declaring that the products were bound for Mexico.
Federal officials said that in the course of the investigation, they seized $18.1 million worth of counterfeit and brand-name cigarettes bound for the black market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMUGGLING (93%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (93%); COUNTERFEITING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); MONEY LAUNDERING (77%); TAX FRAUD (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); TOBACCO MFG (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); IMMIGRATION (70%); LAWYERS (68%); HISTORY (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY (50%) Smoking and Tobacco; Smuggling; Black Markets; Counterfeit Merchandise

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%)

PERSON: Eric Lichtblau

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (91%); CHINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); THAILAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



737 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: West Side Stadium Story: Good for New York? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "A Stadium Too Far" (editorial, Jan. 26): 
 I vehemently object to the construction of a West Side stadium. 
 As a 30-year resident of the theater district, I feel that the congestion and rudeness already thrust upon residents would only increase, making the neighborhood unlivable.
If Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is really concerned with quality-of-life and noise issues, as he has led us all to believe, then he should reconsider this plan. The issue is obvious and needs no further explanation.

L. MCGUIRE
New York, Jan. 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Area Planning and Renewal; Economic Conditions and Trends; Football; Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%) New York Jets

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%) L McGuire

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; West Side (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



738 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: West Side Stadium Story: Good for New York? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"A Stadium Too Far" (editorial, Jan. 26) hit the nail on the head. It was time that New York City's misguided, expensive plan for the West Side of Manhattan was critically examined by the news media. 
 Manhattan Community Board 4 shares many of your concerns, including the wasteful expenditure of tax funds. 
 A stadium is the wrong economic development tool for Manhattan's West Side and a waste of a prime development site.
The rail yards should be used for new high-density office and/or residential buildings, hotels, community uses, public open space and a southward expansion of the Javits Convention Center. Mass transit could be provided by a subway spur running west to 11th Avenue from the regional transportation hub at Penn Station. The spur could be linked to an extension of the No. 7 subway line as future development allows.

WALTER MANKOFF
Chairman, Community Board 4
New York, Jan. 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (87%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (86%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Area Planning and Renewal; Economic Conditions and Trends; Football; Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%) New York Jets

PERSON: Walter Mankoff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; West Side (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



739 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: Rowland's List Of Investments: A Runt Stock And Questions 

BYLINE:  By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
As federal investigators pore through records they have subpoenaed about Gov. John G. Rowland's personal finances, one name will no doubt be familiar: Shared Technologies Cellular.
 The company, now defunct, one of a handful of mostly small, speculative stocks that Mr. Rowland has reported owning while governor, is well known to prosecutors because of civil complaints and a government investigation into its hard-charging chairman, Anthony D. Autorino. 
 To some, Mr. Autorino is a hometown hero who made millions in telecommunications, created jobs in Hartford and became a major benefactor to civic causes. To others, he is a sullied street fighter whose deals have sometimes left banks and others holding the bag. Despite his history of run-ins with banking regulators and the loss of nearly $25 million in state funds invested in another company he ran in the early 1990's, Mr. Rowland gave him a leading role in the revitalization of downtown Hartford in 1997. The same year, in his annual disclosure filings with the state, Mr. Rowland first reported owning at least $5,000 worth of stock in a company that his aides now say was Shared Technologies Cellular. 
Mr. Autorino went on not only to help draft a blueprint for Hartford redevelopment, but also to profit from a piece of it himself, through the state's decision in 1999, supported by the governor, to move a college into a building being developed by Mr. Autorino. Mr. Rowland, meanwhile, may have sold all or some of his stock in Mr. Autorino's company that year, as it did not appear on his later financial statements. 
How much Mr. Rowland invested, and how much money was made or lost, is not clear because disclosure forms only require naming investments valued at $5,000 or more. His office declined to comment or explain what led him to invest and whether he ever discussed it with Mr. Autorino.
Reached on Monday, Mr. Autorino said he had few answers. "Beats me," he said. "This is the first I've heard" that the governor owned shares in one of his enterprises.
Mr. Rowland's investment in Mr. Autorino's company is similar in some ways to previous instances now under scrutiny where his personal finances involved people doing business with his administration. Details about his investments were also among those records recently subpoenaed by the United States attorney's office.
Records show that Mr. Rowland and his wife, Patricia, have owned the occasional Connecticut blue-chip like UST, which they owned together, and U.S. Surgical, which he owned by himself. More than not, though, they favor companies with less name recognition, like Micro Warehouse in Norwalk, Conn.; General DataComm Industries in Middlebury, Conn.; and Edulink in Beverly Hills, Calif.
Given that the governor was making $78,000-a-year -- until last year, when his salary was raised to $150,000 -- and given his steep family obligations as a divorced father of three, the selection of stocks are more speculative than what is typically recommended.
As stocks go, Shared Technologies Cellular was always a runt. Its two main businesses were selling prepaid cellular phones to people with bad credit and renting mobile phones to people on the road. And while management had high hopes that prepaid phones would take off as they had in Europe, revenues peaked at $33 million in 2000. The stock climbed from the low single digits in 1997 to a high of $17 a share in April 1999 on speculation that it would benefit from a deal with WorldCom. When it did not, the stock tanked, and the company filed for bankruptcy in 2001.
"A man that doesn't have much money, why would he go buy Shared Technologies Cellular?" asked Jeffrey Steiner, a wealthy investor who once controlled several seats on the board of Mr. Autorino's larger company, Shared Technologies Fairchild. Mr. Steiner also owned shares in the cellular company, but was better cushioned to take that gamble. Were his circumstances different, he said, Shared Technologies Cellular is "the last thing I would buy."
The annual statements of financial interests that Mr. Rowland files with the state provide few clues about his thinking. Though they show he never had more than a handful of individual stocks in his portfolio, Mr. Rowland reported owning thousands of dollars of stock in Shared Technologies Inc. in each of the years from 1997 to 1999. In fact, that company began operating under a different name, Shared Technologies Fairchild, as of 1996, and the governor's aides now say what he really owned was Shared Technologies Cellular, a subsidiary spun off in 1995. Mr. Autorino ran both companies. 
Shared Technologies Inc. began by selling one-stop telecommunications services to tenants in office buildings where it had contracts. The company's largest investor, Mr. Steiner, pressed the company to put itself up for sale shortly after merging his own company into Mr. Autorino's in 1996. Shareholders eventually got $15 a share in cash in a 1998 sale, more than their shares had ever realized.
Mr. Autorino received at least $20 million for his stake, according to the proxy statement. William DiBella, his longtime business partner and a former Senate majority leader in Connecticut, received just over $1 million. Jo McKenzie, a close confidante of the Rowland family whose late husband had once worked for Mr. Autorino at United Technologies, was on the Shared Technologies Inc. board since 1991. She walked away with $368,000. After the sale, Mr. Autorino focused more of his attention on the cellular company. Though its own corporate filings warned that it was a "highly speculative" venture, people who got involved in it say they hoped it would ape the parent company's success. "Tony had been very successful, and he was being touted as a smart guy in the telecom business, and I knew a lot of people who bought stock just because of Autorino," Mr. DiBella said in a phone interview. "It was the buzz."
In a phone interview, Mr. Autorino said he thought he first met Mr. Rowland when he ran for governor the first time, unsuccessfully, in 1990. Mr. Autorino said he considered Mr. and Mrs. Rowland "close friends." Certainly, the few times Mr. Rowland has addressed Mr. Autorino's business dealings publicly, the governor has been supportive. Back in August 1999, when some people questioned whether the state ought to move the college into Mr. Autorino's building in light of his long-festering battle with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Mr. Rowland said he was unconcerned. "Everyone gets their day in court," he told The Associated Press. "If he has problems with the F.D.I.C., as most developers do, we'll see what happens."
What happened was not pretty, even if Mr. Autorino chalked it up as "the one I've won."
The F.D.I.C. had multiple lawsuits pending against Mr. Autorino over defaulted loans. Then, in June 1999, when he failed to pay a promissory note, it discovered that back in 1993 Mr. Autorino had Shared Technologies Inc. reissue to him stock certificates that had been pledged as collateral on loans. Though the shares had only modest value when Mr. Autorino originally put them up as collateral, he collected nearly $10 million by tendering the replacement certificates to the company that bought Shared Technologies Fairchild in 1998.
The F.D.I.C. referred the matter to the United States attorney's office, and Mr. Autorino was indicted last January of charges of trying to defraud the government.
In May, the case was dismissed by a federal judge, who concluded that the agency had civil remedies and therefore was not harmed in the way described in the indictment. Prosecutors have appealed.
Mr. Autorino declined to comment, other than to say "there was principle involved."
His lawyer, Stanley A. Twardy Jr., said that Mr. Autorino may have been confused about where his shares were back in 1993, when he signed an affidavit declaring that the old ones were lost or missing. "His explanation was he made a mistake," Mr. Twardy said, "and the bottom line is the government did not lose a penny."
Mr. Autorino concedes that the same cannot be said for the State of Connecticut, which backed his ill-fated buyout of Colt's Manufacturing Company in 1990. Partly because the gunmaker's Connecticut roots run deep, the state poured $25 million of state pension money into the deal in what was described as a bid to save jobs.
Nearly all of it was written off when the company filed for bankruptcy two years later. About $210,000 of the state's money was also paid to Shared Technologies Inc. at the closing, when Mr. Autorino found it necessary to have Colt's repay his telecom company for expenses and interest -- incurred during the planning stages of the purchase. Asked about it, Mr. Autorino said that expenses were legitimate. "It was all audited, and there was not one penny that went into my pocket," he said. "So if it rankled somebody, good."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Connecticut House of Representatives met in special session on Monday, establishing an impeachment inquiry for Gov. John G. Rowland. (Photo by Getty Images)(pg. B7) Chart: "Stock in the Spotlight"Weekly closing price of Shared Technologies Cellular. 1997, 1998 and 1999 (shaded)Years in which Rowland reported owning at least $5,000 in Shared Technologies Cellular stock. April 1999Intra-day prices rise as high as $17; weekly close stays below $12. Sept. 2001Company files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Graph tracks weekly closing price of Shared Technologies Cellular from 1995 to 2001. (Sources by Bloomberg; Connecticut State Ethics Commission)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); ETHICS (65%); CITY LIFE (53%); CITIES (53%) Ethics; Gifts; Governors (US); Politics and Government 

COMPANY: SHARED TECHNOLOGIES CELLULAR INC (58%); GENERAL DATACOMM INDUSTRIES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Shared Technologies Inc

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (50%)

PERSON: Alison Leigh Cowan; John G (Gov) Rowland

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



740 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Health Agency Must Reform or Die, Nassau Says 

BYLINE:  By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Jan. 28 

 BODY:
Nassau County's financially ailing health care agency needs to lay off more workers, drop its specialized services and strip down its hospital to stave off financial collapse, county officials said on Wednesday. 
 Unless prompt action is taken, the agency "will collapse of its own weight when it runs out of cash in the next 12 to 18 months," according to a consultant's report that will be released on Thursday. The report, which has already been endorsed by County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi, also calls for doubling the use of the county's seven community health centers and closing its massive nursing home, moving its patients elsewhere. 
 In endorsing the report's findings, Mr. Suozzi said in an interview: "The important thing that comes out of it is, we need the hospital, but we need to dramatically change its mission. It's not going to be a world-class teaching hospital that provides every single service, but instead we want it to be one of the best community hospitals in the nation." 
 The plan, which would require state and locallegislative approval, is expected to spark debate among health care advocates, health agency officials, union leaders and public officials.
 Richard B. Turan, the president of the agency, the Nassau Health Care Corporation, called the proposals thoughtful. "If some of their recommendations can help us maintain a viable health care corporation, then we want to follow the recommendations and work with the county to do that."
 The agency runs the 631-bed Nassau University Medical Center in a 19-story tower in East Meadow, Long Island's tallest building. The agency also operates the state's largest nursing home, the 889-bed A. Holly Patterson Geriatric Center in Uniondale. And it has a network of health centers and provides health care to county jail inmates.
The plan was drafted by George Kalkines of Manatt Phelps Phillips, a Manhattan law firm specializing in hospitals and health care.
 The proposal calls for cutting 296 to 450 more jobs, beyond the recent layoffs already imposed by the agency, which has about 4,000 workers. The plan would have the medical center give up its costly but little-used specialties, like heart surgery, and convert into a general-care community hospital.
 Under the plan, the agency would also demolish the nursing home and sell that 63-acre property for $30 million to $70 million. The patients could be parceled out to other nursing homes. Alternatively, 450 to 680 beds could be moved to the medical center, housed mostly in three floors that have stood vacant since the tower's construction some three decades ago. Some beds might be housed in new structures to be built near the tower.
 The agency's board, now nominated by various officials and appointed by the governor, would be restructured to become entirely county-appointed. The consultant also urged refinancing of the agency's $256 million debt to save money and renegotiating its contracts with the county.
 The agency would continue its historic mission of serving poor and uninsured patients, a major cause of its deficits.
 Nassau spun off its health care operations four years ago as a public benefit corporation with high hopes of freeing it from government procedures, giving it more flexibility and incentive to compete like other hospitals. 
 Although the agency has cut costs and increased revenues, it -- and other hospitals as well -- have suffered from tightened state and federal aid and cost-cutting by the health insurance industry. Westchester's health care agency is facing even bigger deficits than Nassau's, and New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation is having trouble as well.
 Nassau officials worry about the agency because of its financial repercussions. The county subsidizes the agency's operations and also backs the bonds for its debt. The county, which is recovering from its own fiscal crisis, sees the agency's deficits and possible bankruptcy as a major pitfall.
 "By virtually any measure, N.H.C.C. today stands on the brink of financial collapse," said the consultant's report. "This restructuring is critical if N.H.C.C. is to continue to fulfill its essential role in meeting the health needs of the residents of Nassau County, particularly the medically indigent, by becoming a first-class community hospital, without adding to the financial burden of Nassau County and its taxpayers."
 The agency's original financing in 1999 produced $82 million to pay the county for the health care properties, a move that critics said was merely a bailout for the county's own deficit at the time. The financing also yielded $135 million for the agency, but its deficits have eaten up $100 million, and the remaining reserve is steadily dwindling. 
 Many of the proposed changes would save money or raise revenue. Eliminating specialized services would reduce costs. Moving nursing home beds to the medical center would enable consolidated food service and laundry operations. Nursing home beds based at the hospital would be entitled to higher reimbursements. Under the regulations, patient visits to the community clinics generate higher reimbursements than visits to the medical center itself, so the plan calls for shifting patients to the clinics.
 The chairman of the County Legislature's Health Committee, Jeffrey Toback, praised the report and said the interested parties "need to work together for what I trust will be the rebirth of this hospital."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The nurses' station on the 11th floor of the Nassau University Medical Center. (Photo by Kevin Coughlin for The New York Times)(pg. B1); County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi endorsed a report calling for health agency reform. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); HEALTH CARE (91%); COUNTIES (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (70%); GOVERNORS (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (67%); HEART DISEASE (64%) Medicine and Health; Finances; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Shutdowns (Institutional); Nursing Homes; Medicine and Health; Budgets and Budgeting; Labor; Heart; Surgery and Surgeons; Hospitals

ORGANIZATION: Nassau Health Care Corp; Nassau University Medical Center; Nassau University Medical Center

PERSON: Bruce Lambert; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York State; Nassau County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



741 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: The View From the Precinct Next Door; 
In Brooklyn, Skepticism Colors Range of Opinions on Police Shooting

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WILSON and MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
Fort Greene is close enough that it could have happened here. In a coffee shop called Tillie's of Brooklyn, thick with lattes and laptops, a professor says she was surprised by city leaders' quick criticism of an officer who shot and killed an unarmed teenager on a rooftop in nearby Bedford-Stuyvesant. The way the police commissioner found fault with the shooting so soon suggests they seem to be taking it seriously.
 But in the courtyard of the Walt Whitman Houses, a man's surprise is laced with cynicism: sure, it seems unfair that the police officer may take the fall for the shooting, but then again, it is about time someone in uniform did. 
 At the 1880's red brick station house of the 88th Precinct on Classon Avenue, police officers watched their boss's actions with shocked outrage. When Raymond W. Kelly, the commissioner they had come to trust and admire, said the shooting seemed to be unjustified, just hours after it occurred, their loyalties swung to the police officer with the same tough beat as their own. "They don't put themselves in our shoes," one officer said. "They don't know those rooftops in those neighborhoods." 
 The 88th precinct in Brooklyn rests on the western edge of the 79th, where the shooting occurred, close enough to spend a bit of every morning in its shadow. The dividing line between them is invisible, porous, the two neighborhoods sharing the same sweeps of race, background and rich heritages, the same drop in violence and improvement in relations between the races, the same low-slung topography of housing projects, the same culture of apartment rooftops as backyards, thoroughfares and crime scenes.
 And so Saturday's shooting resonates deeply here, and this is as good a place as any to judge the city's perception of the shooting and the official response to it: the police commissioner's remarks, the mayor's visit with the dead teenager's family, the announcement by the Brooklyn district attorney's office that it will move quickly with charges. 
 A day in Fort Greene found that reaction from the parallel worlds of the police and the people they protect is not as clear-cut as might be expected. To be sure, many residents applauded the response and many officers attacked it, but some residents predict that the police officer will get a raw deal, and some officers think the criticism of the shooting is appropriate. While finding no absolute consensus, interviews did show a widespread awareness of the case, and surprising and candid reactions. Among both those who wear dark blue uniforms and those who do not, there is a suspicion that at least a touch of political calculation and public relations was behind the quick response.
 Before dawn Saturday, Timothy Stansbury Jr., 19, and some friends were returning to a party in the Louis Armstrong Houses via the project's roof. They were about to step through a doorway to the roof when two officers on patrol opened the door. Witnesses said that before a word was exchanged, Officer Richard S. Neri Jr. fatally shot Mr. Stansbury in the chest.
 Yesterday, several officers spoke on the condition that their names would not be published. Although officers are often reluctant to discuss current news of their department with reporters, those who spoke were unusually vocal and seemed comfortable expressing their views. "How can you come out and say it's an unjust shooting when you don't know all the facts?" one asked. 
 The consensus among officers is that Mr. Kelly moved to quickly mollify the family of Mr. Stansbury and to head off retaliatory unrest in the neighborhood. Many officers said the strategy was unnecessary and that the family and the surrounding community have more patience and are more interested in letting the facts come out in due time than city officials have given them credit for.
 "He should have waited until everything came out," said a woman who has been an officer for 20 years. "It doesn't matter if he waited another day. The family is still going to be upset."
 Another veteran officer said he could sympathize with Officer Neri, having himself fatally shot a suspect and waited for the routine investigation, although far from the spotlight that is on Saturday's shooting. 
 "If it was a civilian who shot somebody, we would have to do a whole investigation before we jump up and say, 'He did it, he's guilty.' It seems like a poor housing cop doesn't get that courtesy," the officer said. "The only thing you ask your bosses to do is back you. You get into a situation where you're more of a politician than a policeman."
 Officer Neri has been criticized for opening the door with his pistol unholstered, although Mr. Kelly has been careful to defend the right of officers to use their own judgment to determine when to draw their guns.
 Things are different on the roofs, officers say. "If you feel like you're in danger, you've got to take the precautions necessary," one officer said. "You ever hear how they cut out pit bulls' vocal cords so you can't hear them coming? Anybody could be up there."
 But one officer stood by the commissioner. "Past commissioners and mayors would have defended the cops or put the community on hold for the outcome of the whole situation," he said. "It's not that the suspect is black and I'm black. It's that I'm a human being, and the commissioner's actions were appropriate."
 Among a dozen or so civilians stopped in Fort Greene Park, on the cold streets and in the courtyards of the housing projects, or cornered in coffee shops, only a few -- those who had just moved to the city or just returned from trips -- professed to be unaware of the shooting or too poorly informed to form an opinion. 
 Across a broad swath of social, economic and racial perspectives, people said they were surprised by the city's response, particularly by Mr. Kelly's decision to say the shooting appeared to be unjustified.
 "A major change from the past," said Melvin Irby, 43, a social worker.
 With the surprise, however, came skepticism. "They're going to make an example out of him," said Divine Thomas, 37. But be that as it may, he said, the official actions taken against Officer Neri so far -- assignment to desk duty and loss of gun and badge -- were not enough. "You put him on modified desk duty, hot cup of coffee, you do your thing from here," Mr. Thomas said. "You toss the poor people a bone: 'We're doing something about this."'
 In Tillie's, Kim Felsenthal, 36, an adjunct professor at St. Joseph's College, suspected political motivations. "They either quickly defend the officers or they quickly say they're wrong," she said. "It makes me question what's going on behind it."
 Django Atkinson, 29, a waiter, said officials appeared to be rushing. He said he was not sure what to make of the swift pace, though, and suggested that one possibility was that officials were sincerely convinced that Officer Neri was in the wrong. 
 Even among those who said that an example was being made of Officer Neri, little sympathy could be found for him. "It's just wild that things can happen like this to this day," said Ralph Richardson, 34, a filmmaker in Fort Greene. "At least somebody's doing something about it, unlike the Giuliani response."
 Dennis Luces, two years younger, was less optimistic. "That cop's going to get railroaded, regardless," he said outside the Walt Whitman Houses. "Ain't really nothing going to change. It's a small drop in the bucket, and when the sun shines it's going to dry that drop up."

GRAPHIC: Photos: KIM FELSENTHAL -- Adjunct professor at St. Joseph's College; RALPH RICHARDSON -- Filmmaker (Photographs by Michael Kamber for The New York Times) Map of Brooklyn highlighting site of shooting: The 88th and 79th Precincts share the same sweeps of race, background and rich heritages, and the same culture of apartment rooftops as backyards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); MISCONDUCT (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); RACE & RACISM (50%) Police; Police Brutality and Misconduct; Children and Youth

PERSON: Michael Wilson; Michael Brick; Timothy Jr Stansbury; Richard S Jr (Police Officer) Neri

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



742 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Bush Is Said to Seek More Money for Arts 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR; Elisabeth Bumiller contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
President Bush will seek a big increase in the budget of the National Endowment for the Arts, the largest single source of support for the arts in the United States, administration officials said on Wednesday. 
 The proposal is part of a turnaround for the agency, which was once fighting for its life, attacked by some Republicans as a threat to the nation's moral standards. 
 Laura Bush plans to announce the request on Thursday, in remarks intended to show the administration's commitment to the arts, aides said. 
Administration officials, including White House budget experts, said that Mr. Bush would propose an increase of $15 million to $20 million for the coming fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1. That would be the largest rise in two decades and far more than the most recent increases, about $500,000 for 2003 and $5 million for this year. 
The agency has a budget of $121 million this year, 31 percent lower than its peak of $176 million in 1992. After Republicans gained control of Congress in 1995, they cut the agency's budget to slightly less than $100 million, and the budget was essentially flat for five years.
In an e-mail message inviting arts advocates to a news briefing with Mrs. Bush, Dana Gioia, the poet who is chairman of the endowment, says, "You will be present for an important day in N.E.A. history."
Mr. Gioia (pronounced JOY-uh) has tried to move beyond the culture wars that swirled around the agency for years. He has nurtured support among influential members of Congress, including conservative Republicans like Representatives Charles H. Taylor and Sue Myrick of North Carolina. He has held workshops around the country to explain how local arts organizations can apply for assistance. 
Public support for the arts was hotly debated in the 1990's. Conservatives complained that the agency was financing obscene or sacrilegious works by artists like Robert Mapplethorpe and Andres Serrano. Former Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, repeatedly tried to eliminate the agency.
Some new money sought by Mr. Bush would expand initiatives with broad bipartisan support, like performances of Shakespeare's plays and "Jazz Masters" concert tours. 
Mrs. Bush also plans to introduce a new initiative, "American Masterpieces: Three Centuries of Artistic Genius." This would combine art presentations -- from painting and literature to music and dance -- with education programs. The program would give large numbers of students around the country a chance to see exhibitions and performances.
New York receives a large share of the endowment's grants. But under federal law, the agency also gives priority to projects that cater to "underserved populations," including members of minority groups in urban neighborhoods with high poverty rates.
The president's proposal faces an uncertain future at a time of large budget deficits. 
Melissa Schwartz, a spokeswoman for the Association of Performing Arts Presenters, an advocacy group, said, "We'll be fighting tooth and nail for the increase."
Some conservatives, like Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, vowed to oppose the increase. Even without support from the government, he said, "art would thrive in America."
Representative Louise M. Slaughter, a New York Democrat who isco-chairwoman of the Congressional Arts Caucus, said she was delighted to learn of Mr. Bush's proposal.
"There's nothing in the world that helps economic development more than arts programs," Ms. Slaughter said. "It was foolish for Congress to choke them and starve them. We should cherish the people who can tell us who we are, where we came from and where we hope to go."
Mr. Tancredo expressed dismay. "We are looking at record deficit and potential cuts in all kinds of programs," he said. "How can I tell constituents that I'll take money away from them to pay for somebody else's idea of good art? I have no more right to do that than to finance somebody else's ideas about religion."
The agency has long had support from some Republicans, like Representatives Christopher Shays of Connecticut and Jim Leach of Iowa.
"Government involvement is designed to take the arts from the grand citadel of the privileged and bring them to the public at large," Mr. Leach said. "This democratization of the arts ennobles the American experience."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Supporting the Arts"President Bush will propose a substantial increase in the budget of the National Endowment for the Arts for the 2005 fiscal year, administration officials say. Graph tracks the budget since 1966. (Source by National Endowment for the Arts) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); DANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); POVERTY RATES (67%); POOR POPULATION (66%); WRITERS (65%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%) Culture; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Culture

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (94%) National Endowment for the Arts

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); SUE WILKINS MYRICK (58%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush; Laura Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



743 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: Citing Improvement, Moody's Upgrades City's Bond Outlook 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
A major credit rating agency announced yesterday that New York City is on pace to resolve "one of the most serious fiscal challenges it has faced in decades."
 The agency, Moody's Investors Service, revised its ratings outlook on the city's bonds to stable, from negative. 
It said in a statement that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had balanced the city's books through a combination of tax increases, spending restraint and borrowing. It called his newest budget plan "reasonable and achievable." 
 The agency said that the city had reduced its deficits "to manageable levels, more proportionately in line with pre-Sept. 11 and pre-recession amounts."
 The Bloomberg administration was pleased with the announcement, which it saw as evidence of Mayor Bloomberg's success in guiding the city through two consecutive years of multibillion-dollar budget deficits.
 "Moody's upgrading of New York's outlook demonstrates that Mayor Bloomberg is successfully managing the city's budget through the worst fiscal crisis in a generation," said Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the mayor. "However, he still faces considerable financial challenges and fiscal prudence is still necessary."
 Two other credit ratings agencies have already upgraded their ratings outlooks on the city's bonds. Moody's rates the city's bonds A2, a midrange rating. The ratings are important to the city because they help determine how much interest it will have to pay on the money it borrows. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) Ratings and Rating Systems

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Moody's Investors Service

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%) SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) Michael Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004 



744 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
New Housing Spurt Sweeping Boroughs Outside Manhattan

BYLINE:  By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
Though the construction of luxury apartment buildings in Manhattan has commanded far more attention, new census data show that New York City is in the midst of a more surprising housing boom that extends across much of Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx, including neighborhoods where developers once feared to tread without large government subsidies. 
 The number of permits for new housing units in the city rose last year to the highest level in 30 years, while the total was stable or fell across the rest of the metropolitan area. City planners say those figures, released this week by the Census Bureau, document a new wave of interest and investment in middle-class neighborhoods outside Manhattan. 
 It has been decades since developers showed much appetite for building private, unsubsidized middle-income housing in the city, largely because it was so hard to turn a profit. Now, though, the construction boom stretches from the South Bronx, where a surge in privately financed development has led to a tripling of land prices, to Bensonhurst in Brooklyn, where houses are being torn down and replaced by six- and seven-story rental buildings and condominiums for an influx of recent immigrants, prompting calls for new zoning restrictions. 
 "This is market-driven, and the market is clearly making a vote of confidence in the city as a place to invest," said Eric Kober, director of housing, economic and infrastructure planning at the City Planning Department. "We call it reverse urban sprawl."
 The number of new-home permits issued by the city has been rising strongly since the late 1990's, and still lags way behind the rising demand for housing as the city's population grows. The census figures are striking: Last year, builders obtained permits for 21,218 new privately owned apartments and houses, more than in any year since 1973, though far fewer than during the construction boom of the early 1960's.
 The number of new homes approved rose by 15 percent from the year before, even though the number in Manhattan fell slightly for the second year in a row. In the last five years, the greatest increases both in numbers and percentages have occurred in Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens.
 Developers and planners say the trend is driven by several forces, like increased demand, lower crime rates and better-kept neighborhoods. Low interest rates have cut building costs and have expanded the pool of people who can afford homes enough to include recent immigrants.
 Much of the new development outside Manhattan has involved smaller projects: one- and two-family houses and small apartment buildings that can be built more cheaply than steel-trussed Manhattan high-rises, in part because they often use less expensive nonunion labor. Some builders are immigrants who have recently made the transition from contractors to developers, according to builders and planners. 
 The increased development in the city is taking place as new home construction in the rest of the metropolitan area -- which includes portions of New Jersey, Connecticut, New York and Pennsylvania -- is stable or falling slightly, despite rising home prices and the lowest interest rates in a generation. Throughout the region, the number of jobs has grown faster than new homes have been built, leading planners to worry that a housing shortage could hurt economic growth.
 According to the Census Bureau figures, the total of new home construction in 2000 through 2003 rose 77 percent in New York City over the previous four years, while it increased by 2.4 percent in the rest of the metropolitan area. The city's share of new-home permits rose to 32 percent from 21 percent. Outside the city, the number of new homes approved last year -- 37,180 -- was slightly lower than in the year before, and remained 15 percent below the peak year of 2000.
 Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent planning group, said the permits data reflected two trends. Many outer suburbs are "pulling up the drawbridge" out of concern for overburdened schools and services, he said, and rezoning to require larger lots or converting residential lots for commercial and industrial development.
 At the same time, he said, Manhattan "has run out of neighborhoods below 110th Street to revitalize." So development has spread beyond there and the brownstone neighborhoods of Brooklyn, to other Brooklyn neighborhoods, Queens and even the Bronx, which has long lagged behind the rest of the city economically. With housing prices in the suburbs climbing ever higher, many families looking to buy their first home are staying in the city.
 "The Bronx is becoming once again what it was for most of the 20th century, a center for middle-class families and working families with kids," Mr. Yaro said. "It's got good bones -- good parks and good transit."
 Development could slow, however, if interest rates rise sharply, land prices jump or denser housing leads to widespread zoning restrictions. 
 Joshua D. Weissman, the treasurer of the Jackson Development Group, has watched the boom but sees some risks ahead. Last year, his company completed 70 homes on 15 sites, typically in two- and three-family houses on vacant lots in the South Bronx, which are being marketed at about $450,000 per house, and is planning to build and sell 100 more units this year. The houses were built without special government subsidies or land provided by the city, something that was unthinkable just a few years ago, he said.
 "We had one lot on 180th Street and Hughes Avenue," he said, "a corner lot full of cars and tires and garbage. It was terrible. We went in there and built four houses, and two houses over another company was building as well."
 He said the vacant lots the company has relied on, which are often illegal parking lots on the sites of buildings burned out and torn down during the decline of the South Bronx, were getting harder to find because prices have tripled since 1999. The nationwide housing boom has raised the prices of construction supplies like plywood and metal studs; the cost of wood flooring has risen 20 percent, he said. 
 Development in Manhattan declined only slightly last year, according to the census figures, as the number of new homes approved fell by 175 from a year earlier, to about 17 percent below the peak of 6,109 in 2001, although real estate industry officials note that those numbers excluded projects in which downtown office buildings are being converted to housing. 
 From 1985 to 2001, there were more than two Manhattan homes approved for every home approved in Brooklyn, the city's most populous borough. Last year, though, there were more new homes approved in Brooklyn than in Manhattan, 6,054 to 5,232.
 R. Randy Lee, a developer and chairman of the Building Industry Association of New York, said low interest rates were driving the resurgence of construction for the middle class. In the early 1990's, he said, he built subsidized houses in the Bronx that were affordable to families earning $30,000 to $40,000 a year, but as costs rose, minimum incomes rose to as much as $75,000 or $80,000. But as interest rates have fallen in the last few years, reducing monthly mortgage payments, minimum incomes have fallen again to where they were in the early 1990's.
 "As the immigrant population continues to expand, there are a lot of first-generation immigrant buyers," he said. "People who have green cards and jobs are strong buyers for homes."
 Many developers attribute the resurgence to city housingprograms, which have provided subsidies and city-owned land and buildings for renovation and new construction of housing. But as the city develops plans for its last remaining properties, the number of new apartments and projects begun has started to decline, and the momentum has shifted to private developers.
 "Their ability to lead the market has diminished," Mr. Lee said of city housing programs. "But by giving those neighborhoods a kick-start, they created an atmosphere where private sites could be developed." 
 Contributing to the boom is a rising city population, which grew by 900,000 between 1980 and 2000, and an additional 84,000 through July 2002, according to census data. Mr. Kober said city demographers believe that the population has continued to rise since then, in part because of continued immigration. 
 At the same time, unlike many suburban communities, New York City has a large reserve of unused building rights, since, under a 1961 zoning resolution, many neighborhoods outside Manhattan are zoned for far denser development than the single-family homes already there.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joshua D. Weissman's company has recently completed 70 homes on 15 sites in the South Bronx. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B4) Chart: "A Burst of New Housing"The number of new housing units for which permits were issued in New York City last year was the highest since 1973. Neighborhoods in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx were especially active. Graph tracks the number of new housing units for which permits were issued in all of New York City since 1965. 2003: 21,218 Graph tracks the number of new housing units for which permits were issued for the following neighborhoods since 1990: BRONX: 2,935BROOKLYN: 6,054MANHATTAN: 5,232QUEENS: 4,399STATEN ISLAND: 2,598 (Source by Census Bureau)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); CENSUS (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); BUILDING PERMITS (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); ZONING (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); TRENDS (72%); CRIME RATES (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



745 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Panel of Experts Finds That Anti-Pollution Laws Are Outdated 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
Despite three decades of progress, existing air-quality laws are inadequate to prevent pollution from threatening the environment and human health, the nation's top scientific advisory group concluded yesterday.
 The panel, the National Research Council of the National Academies, said it was particularly concerned about ozone, an ingredient of smog that has proved difficult to curtail, and fine soot, which has been shown to be especially harmful. 
 State and local authorities in many polluted regions are increasingly finding that even if they control local emissions, they can end up violating federal standards because of additional pollution drifting from sources outside their jurisdiction. 
And even though individual smokestacks and tailpipes are generally getting cleaner as a result of clean-air laws, their numbers are growing rapidly because of economic and population growth.
"Even if you say, 'Let's not get any better than today,' you're still going to have to do a lot more because the economy is going to grow and we'll have more emissions," said Dr. William L. Chameides, the chairman of the 25-member panel of experts in environmental science, law, engineering and public policy.
In some cases existing rules can be improved, the report went on, but Congress will also have to pass new legislation, including revisions to the 1970 Clean Air Act. 
It noted that the Environmental Protection Agency has only limited authority under the act to deal with pollution in one state that blows into another, putting the downwind region in violation of federal laws. 
Bush administration officials and lawmakers from both parties said it was a helpful technical guide, but some added that political fights were still likely to impede adoption of its recommendations.
The report avoided direct endorsements or criticisms of policies of the Bush administration or its critics, instead promoting general approaches that the experts said were necessary to make environmental progress in the long run.
For example, the panel strongly supported expanding "cap and trade" strategies for cutting pollution, in which a national or regional limit is set and companies that do better than the standard can sell credits to those that cannot.
Also, to ensure that the benefits of environmental laws continue to outweigh the costs, the panel said, wherever possible a single set of rules should control various emissions from particular sources, like power plants. In the past, most pollutants have been controlled in isolation. 
These recommendations essentially constituted an endorsement of the mechanism at the heart of a variety of proposed laws for power plant cleanups. These include President Bush's planto limit three kinds of emissions and those of several bipartisan groups of lawmakers seeking quicker cuts and limits on a fourth emission, carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide is the main heat-trapping greenhouse gas linked by most scientists to global warming.
On the question of climate change, the panel came closest to choosing sides. "Multi-pollutant approaches that include reducing emissions contributing to climate warming as well as air pollution may prove to be desirable," it said.
The report also recommended that global warming be considered both when examining restrictions on various pollutants and assessing how bad various pollution problems may be in coming years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (92%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); SMOG (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); POWER PLANTS (64%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



746 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Time for Exxon to Pay 

 BODY:
It has been 15 years since the Exxon Valdez fetched up on a reef in Prince William Sound in Alaska, spilling 11 million gallons of crude oil and dealing biological and economic shocks to the sound and its adjacent communities, none of which have fully recovered. In 1991, the ship's owner -- now Exxon Mobil -- reached a $900 million civil settlement with the federal government and Alaska. Its obligations to the thousands of fishermen and others who suffered from the spill remain unresolved. It is past time for the company to pay up and put the entire sorry episode behind it. 
 On Wednesday, Russel Holland, a federal district judge in Anchorage, imposed punitive damages of $4.5 billion, arguing among other things that the company had knowingly allowed "a relapsed alcoholic" to command the ship. It was the judge's third attempt to find a figure that the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals would accept. That court vacated a jury award of $5 billion in 1995. It also asked the judge to reconsider the $4 billion he imposed in 2002 in light of a Supreme Court ruling saying that punitive damages should not dwarf economic damages. 
 Exxon Mobil, of course, will appeal, and the likelihood now is that the Ninth Circuit, tiring of this game of legal Ping-Pong, will attempt to set a final award. From where we sit, Judge Holland's $4.5 billion figure does not seem excessive. We say this mindful of the fact that Exxon has already paid out more than $3 billion in cleanup and other costs (a manageable figure for a company that yesterday reported a record $21 billion in profits for 2003). We are further mindful of the fact that some eye-popping jury awards are ridiculously high.
The problems with the tort system should not, however, confuse us as to its basic purposes. These, as stated by Judge Holland, are to achieve retribution and deterrence. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMAGES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (90%); APPEALS (90%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); VERDICTS (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (74%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); TORTS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (95%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%) SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (78%) ALASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



747 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: Exhausting Federal Compassion 

 BODY:
The pernicious joblessness bedeviling the nation is spawning a new category of Americans dubbed "exhaustees": the hundreds of thousands of hard-core unemployed who have run through state and federal unemployment aid. According to the latest estimates, close to two million Americans, futilely hunting for work while scrambling for economic sustenance, will join the ranks of exhaustees in the next six months. 
They represent a record flood of unemployed individuals with expired benefits -- the highest in 30 years -- who are plainly desperate for help. 
 President Bush and the Republican-controlled Congress are doing nothing to help these people. Washington showed no qualms last month in allowing the expiration of the emergency federal program that had offered an extra 13 weeks of help to those who exhausted state benefits. Historically, such help has been continued in periods of continuing job shortages. 
 A year ago, the aid was extended an extra year by Republican leaders. But now, the G.O.P.'s election-year talk is of a recovery rooted in the tax cuts weighted for affluent America. Tending to the exhaustees clearly mars that message.
The emergency program cries out for immediate renewal. It costs $1 billion a month, money that is available from the federal unemployment fund.
In January alone, 375,000 unemployed people are running out of state benefits with nothing to help them through to spring, according to estimates of new federal data by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a capital watchdog group. Without action, the exhaustee toll will mount.
Many will slip into the limbo of the more than 1.5 million Americans who have given up looking for work in the inert employment market. These amount to the flatliners, industrious people overlooked on the administration's screen of spiking recovery indexes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); FLOODS & FLOODING (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



748 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
Will We Remember 2004 as the Year of the Dean Bubble?

BYLINE:  By ANDRES MARTINEZ

 BODY:
Dismal results have lifted the fog of hype. The visionary founder who until a few weeks ago was heralded as a revolutionary genius who would forever change the way business is done is out, replaced by an "old economy" suit who must try to turn around the floundering enterprise. Staff members have been asked to forgo pay, and advertising has been suspended to slow the organization's cash "burn rate." Haven't we seen this tale before? 
 Howard Dean's implosion calls to mind the fate of too many high-flying dot-com companies in the wake of the 2000-2001 crash. Dr. Dean relished being anointed as the Internet presidential candidate last year, when he was riding high, but now the title is proving disconcertingly prophetic. 
 Candidate Dean still has a chance to turn things around in the primaries to come, but he will be different -- just as Time Warner is different now that the adults have removed "AOL" from the name. His original campaign was a cybercampaign. This wasn't a case of one candidate's creating the best Web site, but a case of the Internet's creating a viable candidate, for the first time. Dr. Dean didn't just use the Internet as a tool. His entire message and organization were imbued with an online ethos.
Joe Trippi, the recently ousted campaign manager, essentially created the "Dean.com" brand. Dr. Dean had to ask in a meeting early in the campaign what a blog was, but Mr. Trippi, a lifetime political operative, had spent the bubble years out in Silicon Valley, marveling at the Internet's networking capacity. He advised tech companies and promoted his favorite stocks on online message boards. He was so bullish on Wave Systems, an information services company whose stock has since cratered, that Wave hired him, much as Mr. Trippi would later hire some pro-Dean bloggers.
In many interviews over the last year, Mr. Trippi complained, tongue-in-cheek, that he didn't really run the campaign. This was a reference to the campaign's decentralized nature, in which he served more as a Webmaster. He liked to say that true power lay at "the edges of the network," as if describing the Valley's open-source-software movement. 
The Dean campaign's most fervent supporters felt uniquely empowered because they believed, with some justification, that they and other idealists like them (whom they had seen at the local Meetup) had defined the campaign. The intensity of their support translated into such an impressive stream of venture capital -- $40 million last year, mostly in small sums -- that the campaign decided to bypass public financing limits and spoke of matching the Bush juggernaut's fund-raising. This was Priceline taking on the big airlines, or Webvan taking on Wal-Mart. The Dean campaign spent its seemingly endless money early and indiscriminately to build the brand, and its supporters' enthusiasm seemed to will its poll numbers ever higher, like some dot-com's stock price in 1999.
In retrospect, as at many other dot-coms, the campaign's self-congratulatory buzz and hype masked plenty of serious problems with the business plan. Dr. Dean's volunteers and supporters were like online investors who promoted a company's stock before a single profit -- or vote, in this case -- had been booked.
Investors and customers are not the same thing, and the Dean campaign's decentralized, ad hoc nature became a liability when it came time to convince the customer -- the Democratic voter -- that Candidate Dean was the best product to force George Bush into retirement. 
Because the Dean candidacy was defined by cyberenthusiasts as much as it was by the former governor's inner circle, it never reconciled some core contradictions. Their alignment on the war was clear enough, but what else did a fiscally conservative, relatively pro-business governor have in common with the activist left? And why was the insurgent Washington-bashing candidate being endorsed by the likes of Al Gore?
There may be compelling responses to these and other voter concerns, but the Dean campaign has been hurt by its almost haughty unpreparedness. Dr. Dean's devastating third-place finish in Iowa -- on top of his infamous caucus-night yelp -- seemed to elicit a whimper from the Dean cyberuniverse: we're the high-flying Internet candidacy, remember? 
The ultimate indignity for the true believers is that Mr. Trippi was replaced by Roy Neel. Not only was Mr. Neel a top adviser to Al Gore (an uber-inside-the-Beltway politico), but he was also the chief Washington lobbyist for the Baby Bells, the old local phone monopolists, the ones with the wires. Anyone remember the days of dial-up? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (88%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); FUNDRAISING (67%); WEB SITES (66%); VENTURE CAPITAL (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



749 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Fed Opted Last Month To Keep Phrase on Rates 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers debated on Dec. 9 whether to stop saying that they would hold interest rates low for a "considerable period" before deciding to keep the phrase, minutes of the meeting released yesterday show.
 The wording remained intact until Wednesday, when another meeting of the Fed panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, said it could "be patient" before raising its benchmark overnight bank lending rate. Investors pushed down stock and Treasury prices after the announcement, interpreting the change as a sign that a rate increase might be closer than they had expected. 
 The December minutes show that a "number of members" argued that deleting the phrase "would serve to enhance the committee's flexibility to adjust monetary policy at a later date." Most, though, preferred to maintain the phrase because it "accurately conveyed the committee's policy intentions."
Some officials wanted greater flexibility to raise interest rates to "a more neutral policy posture" if the economy expanded robustly, as the minutes say staff forecasts indicated. Fed panel members were encouraged by surging housing activity, strong demand for computers and software, and declining business caution. 
"At some point," the policy makers said, "a move in the direction of a less accommodative and more neutral policy posture might well be necessary should the apparently vigorous expansion continue and over time to promote fuller utilization of resources."
They also discussed the risks to the economy of the United States' trade gap and the rising levels of government spending, as effects of the declining dollar and of tax cuts. Some expressed concern about the "possible adverse effects of such deficits on financial markets and the economy," according to the minutes.
At the Dec. 9 meeting and again on Wednesday, they voted to leave the federal funds rate at a 45-year low of 1 percent. Committee members saw "considerable risk in taking pre-emptive action that could prove to be unneeded against potential inflation, with associated costs to economic performance," the minutes said.
The committee members "also expressed concern about the potential for an increase in inflation expectations, given highly stimulative macroeconomic policies and economic growth that seemed to be gathering momentum."
Still, most Fed officials said the risks of higher inflation were "a bit less pressing than those on the downside for the next few quarters." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); TREASURY SECURITIES (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BOND MARKETS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



750 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Mixed Ending in 2nd Day of Reading Between Fed's Lines

BYLINE:  By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks rose and technology stocks fell yesterday, as investors, concerned by the Federal Reserve's hints on interest rate increases, sold shares of companies like Amazon and Veritas Software.
 Blue-chip stocks ended higher after spending much of the day nearly unchanged, driven by gains from McDonald's and Procter & Gamble. 
 "There's a rotation out of areas like technology where we've seen some question marks around some earnings numbers," said Owen Fitzpatrick, head of the United States equity group at Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management. "People are looking to become more defensive, especially in an environment where potentially interest rates could rise sooner than anybody expected." 
On Wednesday, the Fed sent stocks tumbling after altering its five-month pledge to keep rates low for a "considerable period." Instead, the Fed said it "can be patient" before enacting what would be its first rate increase since May 2000.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 41.92 points, or 0.40 percent, at 10,510.29. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended up 5.63 points, or 0.50 percent, at 1,134.11. The Nasdaq composite index fell 9.14 points, or 0.44 percent, to 2,068.23.
Volume was heavy, with 1.9 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, well above the 1.4 billion daily average for last year. There were 2.6 billion shares traded on the Nasdaq, also well above last year's daily average of 1.8 billion.
Decliners outnumbered advancers by about 5 to 3 on the Big Board. The Nasdaq fell for a third session, dragged down by Amazon and Veritas. Both reported good earnings late Wednesday but Veritas disappointed investors with its earnings outlook and Amazon left them worried over a costly growth strategy.
Veritas shares slumped $4.23, or 11.6 percent, to $32.24 and was the biggest percentage loser on the Nasdaq 100. Amazon shares ended down $2.74, or 5.3 percent, at $49.22.
Investors moved toward more established companies, analysts said, pushing the Dow into gains late in the session. The Dow suffered its biggest percentage fall since October on Wednesday after the Fed's announcement.
The Dow was led higher by Walt Disney, whose shares ended up 78 cents, to $24.45. McDonald's shares closed up 64 cents, to $25.50.
General Motors was the Dow's laggard, falling $1.75, to $50.71, after Lehman Brothers downgraded Ford Motor. Shares of Ford fell 74 cents, to $14.84.
Treasury prices were narrowly mixed as worries lingered that the Federal Reserve could raise interest rates sooner than expected. In a volatile trading day, bonds did recoup some of the session's early losses after minutes from the Fed's December policy meeting revealed internal discord regarding the language of the central bank's statement.
Still, the market proved unable to reverse the rise in yields on Wednesday after a surprise wording change in the Fed's policy statement was perceived as paving the way to an eventual rate increase. 
By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note gained 5/32 to 100 19/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.18 percent from 4.20 percent on Wednesday.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
High Price: 99.893
High Yield: 1.930
Low Yield: 1.840
Median Yield: 1.880
Accepted at low price: 88%
Total applied for: 55,063,906
Accepted: 32,531,377
Noncompetitive: 896,436
Interest set at: 1

The 2-year notes mature January 31, 2006.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since October, 2003. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (85%); FORD MOTOR CO (74%); SYMANTEC CORP (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (85%); FORDP (PAR) (74%); F (NYSE) (74%); SYMC (NASDAQ) (58%); PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (51%); DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (85%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



751 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Pension Agency to Cut Its Stock Holdings 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Ten years after it adopted an "all equities" strategy, the agency that insures pensions has decided it has taken on too much risk and will reduce stocks to as little as 15 percent of its total investments.
 The decision is a striking attempt to reinforce a pension system crippled by blows from seemingly all sides -- from companies trying to escape costly old promises, from accounting rules that turn risky behavior into profit, from global rivals that do not offer pensions, from retirees claiming benefits longer than actuaries expected, from low interest rates, from money managers who promise too much. 
 The agency's shift is also a contrarian move, coming as debate continues about whether workers should be allowed to invest some of their Social Security money in stocks. And it is likely to fuel further controversy among pension specialists about whether stocks are an appropriate investment. 
Steven A. Kandarian, executive director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, said yesterday that he was not trying to tell companies how to invest pension portfolios. He said the goal was to make sure that as the government takes on more obligations from failed company pension plans, it has enough money to pay benefits.
"We're managing our assets against liabilities that we have to make good on down the road," Mr. Kandarian said in a briefing. 
The inspiration, Mr. Kandarian added, comes from the most earthbound of sources: the insurance industry. When life insurers offer pensionlike investments, called annuities, they cover themselves by investing in bonds. The administration has concluded that if the pension agency does not do the same, taxpayers will have to pick up the slack.
"If we didn't match our liabilities, but just sort of shot for the moon, if you will, the taxpayer would be providing portfolio insurance for our bets in the market," he said. 
The agency plans a gradual reduction in its stockholdings, so that after two years, stocks will make up 15 to 25 percent of its investments. The agency's portfolio was worth $33 billion at the end of 2003. Stocks account for 42 percent of that. 
The agency acquired many of these stocks in the last two years, when it took over the assets of a record number of failed pension plans. As the agency has taken them over, its own financial strength has deteriorated sharply. Its growing deficit has raised concerns that taxpayers might eventually have to bail out the system. 
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, who holds one of the three seats on the pension agency's board, has likened America's pension system to the savings and loan industry in the 1980's. It collapsed in 1989, requiring a huge bailout.
By curtailing its stock investments, the agency can keep from going further out of balance itself, Mr. Kandarian said. The new emphasis on fixed-income investments will deprive the agency of big possible stock gains, he acknowledged, and it might eventually require an increase in the coverage premiums companies pay. But it will also protect against losses and a bailout.
The agency performs the same core tasks as a pension plan, investing money for people's retirements and issuing benefit checks. But even now, its portfolio is much less deeply invested in stocks than a typical corporate pension fund. Most funds are said to keep about 60 percent of assets in stock. Pension managers have relied increasingly on stocks ever since the law requiring companies to fund their pension promises was passed in 1974. 
Stocks are favored on the theory that they will produce higher returns over time, allowing companies to offer pensions at lower cost. Unions have embraced this, knowing that if companies paid less into the fund, there might be more available for wages. Neither labor nor management was overly concerned about market risk. If the strategy failed outright, the government insurance program was there to cover the loss. 
The recent, prolonged bear market has cast a long shadow over these widely held views. A small number of pension specialists have long argued that investing in stocks increases the risk of collapse -- but as more and more pension funds have done just that, policy makers have listened with growing interest. Pension assets melted away after the stock market fell, but employees kept on retiring and claiming benefits, right on schedule. Most funds have survived, but those sponsored by struggling companies -- especially those with lots of older workers or rich benefits -- have not. 
Fixed-income specialists have been urging both companies and the pension agency to immunize portfolios against any recurrence of that disaster, by investing in bonds with durations that match the dates when benefits must be paid. 
Mr. Kandarian said the agency had concluded that this was the correct approach, given its mission as the backstop for company pensions.
"Most companies take a considerable amount of equity risk," he said. "That's an important point for us to think about, as we manage our equity risk." 
Since companies hold a high portion of stocks in pension funds, he explained, the agency is effectively doubling its exposure to market risk if it continues to hold stocks itself.
The pension agency divides its investments into two trust funds. One, which holds the premiums received from companies that offer traditional pensions, is already invested exclusively in bonds. It will remain unchanged. 
The other, worth about $17 billion, holds the assets the agency receives as it takes over collapsing pension plans. In 1994, the agency decided to shift this trust's investments heavily into stocks -- a policy that looked smart in the boom years. About $4 billion of the investments in this trust are "transition assets," Mr. Kandarian said -- investments still in the same form as when the agency received them from defunct pension funds. Those will be the first shifted to bonds. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BAILOUTS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); SAVINGS & LOANS (67%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (66%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



752 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: BUSH'S AIDES PUT HIGHER PRICE TAG ON MEDICARE LAW 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
The Bush administration said on Thursday that the new Medicare law offering prescription drug benefits and private health plans to the elderly would cost at least $530 billion over 10 years, or one-third more than the price tag used when Congress passed the legislation two months ago.
 Conservative Republicans said the new estimate confirmed their worst fears, while Democrats said it vindicated their view that the law gave far too much money to drug manufacturers and insurance companies. The bill passed narrowly in the House after Republican leaders gave assurances that the cost would not exceed $400 billion. 
 The Congressional Budget Office said in November and again this week that the cost was about $400 billion for the 10-year period 2004 to 2013, the amount originally proposed by Mr. Bush. But White House officials said Thursday that the president's budget would put the cost at $530 billion to $540 billion. 
At the same time, the officials said that the overall budget deficit for the current fiscal year would exceed $500 billion. The deficit for fiscal 2003 was $375 billion, a record amount. 
Mr. Bush says his budget request, to be unveiled on Monday, will cut the deficit in half within five years, by promoting economic growth and keeping spending under control.
The Medicare law, which Mr. Bush signed on Dec. 8, will offer drug benefits to 41 million elderly and disabled people. It will also give insurance companies and private health plans a huge new role in the Medicare program.
A White House official said the new estimate reflected "the Medicare actuaries' best estimate of the future cost." The actuaries and White House budget officials often differ with Congressional budget experts, he said.
"Health costs are very volatile," the official said. "It's difficult to predict the behavior of 40 million people in a market that does not now exist."
The Bush administration did not explain how it arrived at its cost estimate, but health economists and budget analysts suggested two factors. The administration predicts that the new law will produce a sharp increase in the number of Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in health maintenance organizations and other private health plans. In addition, the law significantly increases Medicare payments to private health plans.
"For the foreseeable future, the private plans are more expensive than the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program," said Robert D. Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute and vice chairman of a federal commission that advises Congress on Medicare. 
Republicans say the private plans will enhance competition and efficiency in the Medicare market, saving money in the long run.
Democrats have introduced legislation to augment what they see as a meager Medicare drug benefit. 
The new cost estimate could strengthen the hand of Republicans who oppose any expansion of the benefit. But it could also strengthen the hand of Democrats who want to save money by controlling drug prices and reducing Medicare payments to private insurers.
The White House tried to persuade Congress to include stringent cost controls in the law. But Democrats balked, saying the proposals could have led to cuts in Medicare benefits.
Passage of the Medicare bill was a major political achievement for Mr. Bush and the Republican leaders of Congress. But lawmakers would probably not have approved the legislation in its current form if they had thought the cost would exceed a half-trillion dollars.
The bill was passed by a vote of 220 to 215 in the House, with reluctant support from some conservative Republicans who were deeply troubled by the cost.
The new estimate confirmed the fears of many conservatives. "We told you so," said Robert E. Moffit, director of the Center for Health Policy Studies at the Heritage Foundation.
Mr. Moffit said the new estimate "will create an enormous problem for the Congressional leadership, which repeatedly told Republicans that this was a fiscally responsible bill."
An aide to the Senate Republican leadership said that he did not know why the new estimate was higher.
Thomas A. Scully, the federal official in charge of Medicare from May 2001 to December 2003, said: "The estimate may be surprising to some people, but it's not shocking to me. It just reflects a difference of opinion among actuaries who make different assumptions about the growth of drug spending and enrollment in private plans."
William A. Pierce, a spokesman for the Department of Health and Human Services, said: "The Medicare bill had lots of moving parts. We could not make a final analysis of the cost until it became law."
Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, who voted for the bill, said he was surprised at the new figure. But he said, "Cost estimates for entitlement programs have been notoriously unreliable, often too low."
Representative Patrick J. Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican who voted against the bill, said: "The new cost estimate is very disturbing, and I am concerned that the bill will end up costing even more than $540 billion. What could have changed so much in just a few months?"
Democrats said the new cost estimate vindicated their contention that the law was too generous to drug manufacturers and insurers. 
"The news on the Republican Medicare bill gets better and better for drug company profits and H.M.O.'s, and worse and worse for seniors and the Medicare program," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.
Administration officials said they had not concealed information about the cost of the new drug benefit. But in their zeal to secure passage of the legislation last fall, they played down concerns about the cost. 
The drug benefit is scheduled to begin in 2006. The cost of preparations in 2004 and 2005 is relatively small. But the costs will surge as baby boomers turn 65 and become eligible for Medicare in 2011 and subsequent years.
Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, director of the Congressional Budget Office, has estimated that the drug benefit could cost $1 trillion to $2 trillionin its second decade.
Trent D. Duffy, a White House spokesman, said spending on prescription drugs could reduce the need for more expensive types of care. Mr. Bush often says, for example, that ulcer drugs costing $500 a year can eliminate the need for surgery and hospital stays costing $28,000 a patient.
The $530 billion estimate apparently does not include the cost of another feature of the new law, which provides tax breaks to people who establish savings accounts for medical expenses. Mr. Bush says he hopes millions of people will set up such accounts.
In recent weeks, conservative Republicans have expressed alarm at the growth of federal spending, which increased more than 20 percent from 2000 to 2003, while revenues were declining. Some Democrats suggested that Mr. Bush was predicting a big deficit for 2004 so it would be easier to halve the deficit in five years.
Mr. Duffy, the White House spokesman, said that suggestion was ridiculous. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); BUDGETS (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DRUG PRICES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INSURANCE (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



753 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Kirshenbaum Bond Loses Its Independence

BYLINE:  By Nat Ives

 BODY:
One of the few remaining large independent agency companies, the Kirshenbaum Bond Creative Network in New York, is independent no longer. Its owners have sold a 60 percent stake to MDC Partners in Toronto. 
 Though terms were not disclosed, The Wall Street Journal, which reported the deal yesterday, estimated that MDC would pay as much as $75 million in cash and stock, with payouts based on the future performance of Kirshenbaum Bond. 
Kirshenbaum Bond, founded in 1987, has more than 200 employees in New York and San Francisco and billings estimated at $525 million from clients like Andrew Jergens, the Meow Mix Company, Target, Timex and the Verizon SuperPages. Jonathan Bond and Richard Kirshenbaum will continue as co-chairmen.
 MDC, which has been seeking to expand in the United States, owns a majority interest in another New York agency, Margeotes/Fertitta & Partners, and a 49 percent stake in Crispin Porter & Bogusky in Miami as wellas agencies like Colle & McVoy in Minneapolis and Bratskeir & Company in New York.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); BONDS (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (69%); MARGEOTES/FERTITTA & PARTNERS LLC (69%); BRATSKEIR & CO INC (69%); MARGEOTES/FERTITTA & PARTNERS INC (69%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



754 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Filings for Jobless Claims Drop 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment benefits fell last week, the government said yesterday, staying close to a three-year low.
 Initial jobless claims fell 1,000 last week, to 342,000. 
Claims at the end of last year reached 339,000, the lowest since January 2001. Economists had projected a decline to 340,000 in last week's claims from the initially reported 341,000 the week before. 
 The number of people continuing to collect state jobless benefits in the week ended Jan. 17 rose 11,000, to 3.131 million. The four-week average of continuing claims fell by 40,750, to 3.164 million, the lowest since 3.135 million in the week ended Aug. 25, 2001.
A separate report from the Labor Department showed that the employment cost index, a gauge of labor expenses for businesses and government, rose 0.7 percent from September through December, the smallest increase in a year. It climbed 1 percent in the third quarter. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker yesterday at a Ford plant in Hazelwood, Mo., where the company announced that it would eliminate the second shift by April 26. About 1,000 employees, 37 percent of the work force, will be laid off. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



755 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 5; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: ART IN REVIEW; 
'Adaptations'

BYLINE:  By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Apex Art
291 Church Street, near Walker Street, TriBeCa
Through Feb. 7
 With the much-contested subject of a permanent 9/11 monument in the air, this knotty little essay of a show on improvised, often collective responses to urban crises is welcome. The projects in the show -- organized by Craig Buckley, an independent curator -- approach problems not by introducing elaborate, made-from-scratch solutions, but by using elements already there, with the idea that the results, however useful, are also organic and provisional. 
 A few of the projects are by individual artists. Michael Rakowitz, for example, has designed inflatable plastic shelters for the homeless by taking advantage of the city's many street-level hot air ducts, while Oscar Tuazon, working with Richard Fischbeck, has produced shelters in the form of portable geodesic domes. Kim Adams, the show's only semi-conventional monument builder, recycles wrecked cars, old trucks and abandoned houses as public sculptures.
Most of the contributions, though, are by artist collectives, which have an increasing presence internationally. The Stealth group (Ana Dzokic, Milica Topalovic, Marc Neelen and Ivan Kucina) charts the growth of new architectural structures that have spring up to accommodate black market trade in Belgrade, Serbia. Raqs Media Collective (Jeebesh Bagchi, Monica Narula and Shuddhabrata Sengupta), an important presence in Delhi, paper the city with stickers in which official commands and warnings found in public places are mixed with advertising phrases to suggest the political, social and economic dimensions of civic control.
The Arnait Video Collective (Marie-Helene Cousineau, Mary Kunuk, Madeleine Ivalu, Susan Avingaq, Rachel Uruyasuk and Katrina Soukup) from northern Canada are represented by a video documenting the history of a Canadian Indian family struggling with settlement life.
Finally, there is work by the New York-based Ocean Earth Development Corporation. Its members -- George Chaikin, Sarah Peschel, Eve Vaterlaus, and Peter Fend, who also has a solo show at American Fine Arts in Chelsea -- address the calamitous state of Jamaica Bay since runways were constructed for the now-defunct Concorde. They propose a reclaimation project that would not only restore the original habitat, but also provide a source of algae-harvesting for the production of clean energy. It's hard to imagine a more monumentally life-enhancing urban project than that. HOLLAND COTTER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (69%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (69%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (66%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (62%); HOMELESSNESS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (78%); DELHI, INDIA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (78%); UNITED STATES (77%); INDIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



756 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 733 words

PERSON: Jack Sheinkman 

HEADLINE: Jack Sheinkman, 77, Lawyer; Led Clothing Workers' Union 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Jack Sheinkman, the former president of the nation's largest union of clothing workers and a major strategist in one of labor's biggest victories, organizing the textile maker J. P. Stevens, died yesterday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 77.
 The cause was pneumonia, family members said. 
 Mr. Sheinkman was president of the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union from 1987 to 1995. He developed a reputation as one of organized labor's leading internationalists, heading labor's efforts to help impoverished workers and embattled trade union leaders in Central America. 
In 1976, he helped to engineer a merger between his union and a smaller textile union that was running out of money in its efforts to unionize J. P. Stevens. Mr. Sheinkman pushed for the merger, figuring that a stronger, wealthier union would help win the Stevens campaign. 
J. P. Stevens, based in North Carolina, had been resisting union organizers since 1963. Thanks in large part to the merger, the union signed a contract with the company in 1980 on behalf of 4,000 workers.
In an era when labor leaders were reluctant to defend leftist movements overseas, Mr. Sheinkman led labor's opposition to President Ronald Reagan's efforts to remove the leftist government of Nicaragua. He was highly critical of right-wing dictatorships in Central America. 
"He had the courage to speak out about Central America," said Bruce Raynor, president of Unite, the successor union to Mr. Sheinkman's textile workers. "He personally experienced talking to union leaders in Central America who were later assassinated."
Mr. Sheinkman was known for being able to both confront and cooperate. In the 1970's, he helped lead a 21-month strike and boycott against the Farah Manufacturing Company, honing labor's strategies to put pressure on companies through boycotts and other means. But in the 1980's and 1990's, he often sought to cooperate with management to help keep jobs in the United States.
"There was an empathy about him for his union people and also an understanding of the realities of the world," said Homi Patel, chief executive of Hartmarx, the men's clothing manufacturer, "I found him to be tough, but very responsible."
Jacob Sheinkman, who was known as Jack, was born in the Bronx on Dec. 6, 1926, the son of Shaia and Bertha Sheinkman, who immigrated from Kiev in 1923. His father, an engraver, had fought with the Bolsheviks in the Russian Revolution. Family members said Mr. Sheinkman's interest in labor dated from his childhood involvement in the Workmen's Circle, a social democratic organization founded by Jewish immigrants.
He is survived by his wife, the former Betty Francis Johnson, whom he married in 1954; his brother, Shepard, of Bethesda, Md.; three sons, Joshua, of Silver Spring, Md.; Michael, of Thailand; and Mark, of New York City; and three grandchildren.
He went to Evander Childs High School in the Bronx and then served in the Navy during World War II, rising to lieutenant in the Naval Reserve. He received a bachelor's degree from the Cornell University School of Industrial Labor Relations in 1948, and four years later earned a degree from Cornell's law school. He also received a certificate in economics from Oxford University.
His labor career began as an organizer for the International Pulp, Sulphite and Paper Mill Workers. In 1953, he began working for the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, and from 1958 to 1972 was its general counsel. He was the union's secretary-treasurer from 1972 to 1976.
As the ranks of the nation's clothing unions shrank, Mr. Sheinkman led merger efforts to help the unions maintain their strength and finances. The merger of his union with the Textile Workers Union in 1975 formed the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union. He was its secretary-treasurer from 1976 to 1987. 
In 1995, with his union battered by the exodus of jobs overseas, he also engineered a merger between his union and the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. He became president emeritus of the new, merged union, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, later renamed Unite.
From 1995 to 1998, Mr. Sheinkman was chairman of Americans for Democratic Action, the liberal advocacy group. He was a member of Cornell's board of trustees and of the Council on Foreign Relations and served on the President's Advisory Committee on Trade.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Sheinkman (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times, 1996) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (94%); GARMENT WORKERS (91%); TEXTILES (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); TEXTILE MFG (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TEXTILE MILLS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); STRIKES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); MEN (77%); MEN'S APPAREL MFG (72%); BOYCOTTS (63%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HMX LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITE HERE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2337 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' SUITS, SKIRTS, & COATS (52%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (52%); SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (52%)

RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); UKRAINE (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); THAILAND (50%)

CATEGORY: Labor 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



757 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; 
In a Visit to New Hampshire, Bush Sounds Campaign Themes

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: MERRIMACK, N.H., Jan. 29 

 BODY:
President Bush blew into New Hampshire on Thursday, less than 48 hours after the Democrat competitors left, to try to dig out from the piles of invective that those candidates had heaped on him in a presidential primary that White House officials said Mr. Bush was too busy to notice.
 Officially, Mr. Bush is not yet politicking, but his remarks here, at an office of Fidelity Investments in this snowy, pine-covered stretch of southern New Hampshire, touched on the major themes of his re-election campaign: national security, tax cuts, jobs. Although the president did not utter the names of any of the Democrats, he did allude to the spectacle that had moved on. 
 "I understand there's been some activity in the state of New Hampshire recently," Mr. Bush said, to laughter from a friendly, White House-invited crowd of Fidelity employees and local business people. 
Later, Mr. Bush made a campaignlike stop, unannounced to journalists, at Swan Chocolates, a husband-and-wife purveyor of truffles that opened in 2003 and underscored Mr. Bush's regular theme that the United States' strength is in its small-business entrepreneurs. 
"They started their business last year, had a dream, living their dream, and they're making good product," Mr. Bush said in his usual staccato of the shop's owners, Michael and Theresa Anderson. "And I expect people in the national press corps to leave some cash behind."
Mr. Bush was not as talkative about testimony on Wednesday from David A. Kay, who said that the prewar intelligence about Saddam Hussein's weapons programs was wrong, or about Senator John Kerry, who has won the first two states to vote on a Democratic nominee. Mr. Bush ignored questions on both subjects.
In the evening, at a lucrative drop-by in Old Greenwich, Conn., the state of his birth, Mr. Bush raised $1.1 million for his re-election campaign. The checks brought his fund-raising total to more than $130 million, an amount that dwarfs the $40 million raised and mostly spent by the next-biggest fund-raiser of the 2004 campaign, Howard Dean.
The major no-show at the event was Gov. John G. Rowland, a Republican who is enmeshed in a corruption scandal over free renovations to his lakeside cottage. Bush campaign officials did not say whether they had asked Mr. Rowland to stay away.
Lt. Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican, said the decision to stay home had been Mr. Rowland's.
"He just wanted to let the president have this evening for himself," Ms. Rell told reporters at the fund-raiser.
In Merrimack, Mr. Bush's event consisted of seven people sitting with him on a stage saying cheerful things about how his tax cuts or his stewardship of the economy had improved their lives. The White House said one of the seven, Louise Hickey, a senior executive secretary at Fidelity, had saved $1,100 from Mr. Bush's tax cuts.
"Now, that may not sound like a lot to some of the people who are rolling in cash," Mr. Bush said, to laughter, but adding: "That's a lot. It made a difference."
In Old Greenwich, Mr. Bush was introduced by his cousin Debbie Stapleton, the Connecticut finance chairwoman of his campaign, who happily described the president as a Northeasterner with Ivy League roots.
"You may associate him with the Lone Star State, boots and spurs," Ms. Stapleton said, "but I knew him in his earlier Connecticut days of family gatherings, Yale Bulldogs and Old Blue." 
Mr. Bush recalled his years at Yale as well as members from his class of 1968 who had turned up to see him.
"They were the ones who invented shock and awe when they heard I was president," Mr. Bush said, alluding to his average grades. "They're all fine lads. They themselves were C students." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); JOURNALISM (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); WRITERS (67%); CORRUPTION (50%); SCANDALS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%); M JODI RELL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



758 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

White House Says War With Iraq Was Justified
The Bush administration, defending its decision to go to war against Iraq, said that even if Saddam Hussein had not amassed stockpiles of banned weapons, the United States could not have afforded to leave him in power because he had a history of trying to acquire them. A10

The struggles of Pakistan and Saudi Arabia against internal Islamic extremists present America with "broader strategic problems" as significant as Iraq or Afghanistan, the commander of American forces in the region said. A10

Terror Attack in Jerusalem
A Palestinian policeman detonated a bomb packed with shrapnel aboard a bus in Jerusalem, killing himself and 10 others. Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades claimed responsibility for the bombing. A6

Israel proceeded with a planned prisoner exchange with the Lebanese guerrilla group Hezbollah, despite the attack in Jerusalem. A6

Pakistan Nuclear Investigation
Retired Pakistani civilian and military officials, former American diplomats and proliferation experts said Pakistan's military-led government appeared to be glossing over evidence that senior military officials may have approved the sale of nuclear technology. A12

Fallout Builds Over BBC Report
The BBC was left without its top two officials after another resigned in the wake of a devastating report attacking the corporation's journalistic practices. Hundreds of BBC employees took to the streets and protested the battering taken by the BBC. A4

SARS Virus Quickly Adapted
Chinese scientists have analyzed the genome of the SARS virus. The speed with which the virus adapted to humans underlines the importance of having a public health surveillance system to recognize and isolate patients at an early stage before a new virus has honed its attack skills. A9

NATIONAL A13-21

Bush's Estimate Rises On Cost of Drug Benefit
The Bush administration said the Medicare drug benefit would cost at least $530 billion over 10 years, one-third more than estimated when Congress passed the legislation. A1

Democrats Meet for Debate
The Democratic presidential contenders attacked President Bush on his handling of Iraq, the war on terrorism and his stance on trade and the economy while insisting that their party would be able to compete against him in the South. A19

Howard Dean rebuffed the notion that he must win in one of the states voting Tuesday. A18

Some electronic voting machines have such poor security that an election could be disrupted or even stolen, a report said. A20

Evolution Battle in Georgia
A proposed set of guidelines for science classes in Georgia has caused a furor after state education officials removed the word "evolution" and scaled back ideas about the age of the earth and the natural selection of species. A13

Panel Wants Deadline Change
The two key Senate authors of the bill that created an independent commission to investigate the Sept. 11 attacks said they would introduce legislation next week to extend the panel's deadline by eight months. A21

Mars Rover's Status Improves
The Mars rover Spirit performed limited scientific work and could resume full operations as early as Sunday, NASA said. A13

Panel Criticizes Clean Air Laws
The existing air-quality laws are inadequate to prevent pollution that threatens the environment and human health, the nation's top scientific advisory group concluded. A15

Detainees Released
The military released three teenagers from the detention center at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. A21

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Few Choices for Parents Of Autistic Children
The gap between needs and services is widening for parents with autistic children, sending parents trolling the Internet, visiting any school that sounds promising, winding up on waiting lists and often moving or suing their school districts to get what they want for their children. A1

Tribe Wins Recognition
The federal Bureau of Indian Affairs formally recognized the existence of an Indian tribe based in northwestern Connecticut, to the dismay of political leaders and residents who fear that the government designation will lead to the creation of a third casino in the state. B1

Importance of Being Upstate
Hardly a week goes by without a major statewide figure from either party touring upstate New York in the continuing battle for votes outside of New York City and its suburbs. B1

An Urban Housing Boom
New York City is in the midst of a housing boom that extends across much of Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx, indicating a new wave of interest and investment in middle-class neighborhoods outside Manhattan. A1

Neediest Cases B6

ESCAPES F1-12

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES A23

WEEKEND E1-32; E33-44

Proposed Boost in Arts Funding
The White House called for an increase of $18 million in the budget for the National Endowment for the Arts this coming fiscal year. E3

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Delay in Martha Stewart Case
A federal judge delayed the testimony of the main witness in the trial of Martha Stewart in an embarrassing setback for prosecutors. The order came after lawyers for her co-defendant accused them of unfairly withholding an important document that could exonerate their client. C1

Medicare Review Under Way
Medicare officials are close to deciding whether to refuse for the first time to pay for unapproved uses of expensive cancer drugs. C1

Inquiry Into Company Founder
The New York attorney general has convened a grand jury to consider evidence about short-term trades by Richard S. Strong, founder of Strong Capital Management, according to people briefed on the proceedings. C3

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: The spread of avian influenza; exhausting federal compassion; time for Exxon to pay; Andres Martinez on whether we will remember 2004 as the year of the Dean bubble.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E39
TV Listings E31
Public Lives B2
Weather A22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); VIRUSES (86%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); HEZBOLLAH (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); MEDICARE (72%); APPROVALS (72%); EVOLUTION THEORY (72%); JOURNALISM (71%); SARS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); WRITERS (65%); DISEASE REPORTING (64%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (61%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (60%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (60%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (60%); RELIGION (56%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (56%); AL-AQSA MARTYRS BRIGADES (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (91%) UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



759 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: POLITICAL MEMO; 
Whoever Is Chosen, Democrats Spoil for a Fight

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
The struggle for the Democratic presidential nomination is not just about personalities and programs, but also about the direction -- maybe even the soul -- of the party. While still very much a work in progress, the Democratic Party emerging from Iowa and New Hampshire is different from the careful centrism of the Clinton era.
 Howard Dean may not have won a primary or caucus yet, a circumstance that led to a major shake-up of his campaign on Wednesday, but his mark on the party is unmistakable. His defeats are less a victory for the Democratic establishment than a sign of the other leading candidates' ability to adjust, and harness the energy originally tapped by Dr. Dean's insurgent campaign: the anger at President Bush, the opposition to the war with Iraq, the demand for a different direction in domestic policy. 
 This is a Democratic Party spoiling for a fight. Dr. Dean's rallying cry was, and is, "It's time to take our country back!" Senator John Kerry throws Mr. Bush a defiant challenge that becomes an empowering group chant: "Bring it on!" Senator John Edwards cites his long legal career fighting big corporate lawyers and declares, "I am so ready for this fight!" 
At Thursday night's debate in South Carolina, Dr. Dean brushed aside the talk of turmoil in his campaign and declared: "Everybody on this stage, or a lot of people on this stage, have now embraced my message. They all talk about change. They all talk about bringing people into the party. The truth is I stood up for that message when nobody else would."
In contrast to Bill Clinton, today's leading Democratic candidates are not much interested, at least so far, in critiquing liberal orthodoxy and apologizing for past Democratic sins. The Democratic pollster Stanley Greenberg, an adviser to Mr. Clinton in 1992, noted that these candidates must appeal to a far more polarized, us-against-them electorate than existed when Mr. Clinton firstran. Theirs is a party that is utterly shut out of power in Washington -- the Democrats of 1992 had big majorities in both the House and the Senate -- and that feels its powerlessness acutely.
Forty-six percent of those who voted in the New Hampshire Democratic primary described their feelings toward the Bush administration as angry, according to exit polling; an additional 37 percent described themselves as dissatisfied. 
Dr. Dean drew on that sentiment early on, around the war with Iraq and, to a lesser extent, the Bush administration's tax cuts. His declaration that "I'm from the Democratic wing of the Democratic Party" thrilled Democrats outside Washington who felt that their Congressional leaders had been far too accommodating to the administration on the war. Many of these Democrats argued that the party establishment had repeatedly compromised with Mr. Bush and, essentially, been rolled -- not just legislatively, on issues like Medicare and education, but also at the polls in the 2002 midterm elections.
The other leading candidates soon began sharpening their own attacks on Mr. Bush and his conduct of the war with Iraq, even if they had voted to authorize the war, as Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards had. Like Dr. Dean, "they recognized the dynamic that this was about who was going to stand up to President Bush," Mr. Greenberg said. "Dean thought he had a lock on it, and he thought that Iraq was the sole component."
In fact, the war itself was not the most important concern by the time Democrats went to vote in Iowa and New Hampshire; domestic issues like health care and the economy were, judging from the exit polls. When the race moved to New Hampshire, Dr. Dean took credit for causing his rivals to oppose the war, and said this shift would now let him return to the bread-and-butter domestic issues that got him into the race at the start.
But several Democratic strategists said Dr. Dean had failed to adjust to this new focus on the domestic agenda, as well as the rising concern among primary voters with each candidate's ability to defeat Mr. Bush, not just confront him.
Dean allies complain bitterly that the other candidates have borrowed heavily from their message, as often happens in a long election race. The other major campaigns assert that their messages flow naturally from their candidates' biographies and public careers, and the political times they are running in.
In mid-November, after a shake-up in his own campaign, Mr. Kerry began delivering a sharper stump speech, including the climactic line "Bring it on," which hits the same rebellious chord as Dr. Dean's rallying cries. His speech also emphasized what he characterized as special interests' grip on Washington.
That is another major feature of the Democratic message these days: an unabashed populist critique against Mr. Bush's Washington, the "special interests" and "corporate cronies" that the Democrats assert now dominate the government.
Mr. Edwards talks about "two Americas -- one for the privileged few, and another for everybody else." Mr. Kerry, in spite of his patrician style, sounds like an avenging populist street fighter: "I have a message for the influence peddlers, for the polluters, the H.M.O.'s, the big drug companies that get in the way, the big oil and the special interests who now call the White House their home: We're coming. You're going. And don't let the door hit you on the way out."
Bill Clinton slipped comfortably into populism at times. But there is a razor's edge to the Democrats' attacks on powerful special interests these days that haseverything to do with the current Bush administration, many Democratic strategists say.
"One of the great weaknesses that Bush has is that people see him as beholden to special interests," said Mark Mellman, Democratic pollster and adviser to the Kerry campaign. "They believe these interests are preventing us from dealing with issues like health care, drug costs, environmental issues and the like." 
David Axelrod, adviser to Mr. Edwards, said, "Nobody's done more for populism than George Bush."
Al Gore ran a populist campaign in 2000, of course, casting his message as "the people versus the powerful." The Democratic Leadership Council, the incubator of Clinton Democrats, was critical of that message after the election, arguing that Mr. Gore had run as an old-style populist instead of a "new-economy Democrat." But these are different times, officials of the leadership council say.
"There's nothing wrong with sticking up for the little guy against this administration," said Bruce Reed, the group's president. "Bush has relentlessly shifted the tax burden off of wealth and onto work." Council officials assert that Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards are advancing a more "positive populism" aimed at protecting the broad middle class and all who "play by the rules."
In the end, Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards often sound more like populist outsiders and agents of change than like incumbent senators, a source of considerable frustration to the Dean camp.
As the race for the nomination moves on, to the South, the West and the industrial Midwest, the Democratic message will no doubt change. And it will change again for the general election. For now, though, the populists prevail. The man whose supporters believe he started it all was carrying the banner high on Thursday night.
"When you go to elect a president, you want somebody who's going to stand up for you," Dr. Dean said at the debate, reciting the tough stands he had taken against Mr. Bush. "How do you know anybody else is going to stand up for you if they wouldn't do it when it really counted and when it wasn't popular?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry has adopted a populist cry: "Bring it on!" (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); IRAQ WAR (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); LAWYERS (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); TAX LAW (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



760 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEBATE; 
Democratic Contenders Attack Bush on Iraq, Terrorism, Trade and Economy

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: GREENVILLE, S.C., Jan. 29 

 BODY:
The Democratic presidential contenders attacked President Bush on Thursday for his handling of Iraq and terrorism and for his stance on trade and the economy and insisted that their party would be able to compete against him in the South.
 Their exchanges, at a debate in one of the seven states with nominating contests Tuesday, reflected the changed dynamics of the presidential race since Senator John Kerry won the first two contests, in Iowa and New Hampshire. 
 Howard Dean, shifting easily to dart thrower from the target he played in earlier debates, questioned Senator Kerry's record and effectiveness. Dr. Dean's challenge came more than midway through a debate that up until then had been largely civil, with the seven candidates focusing their fire on Mr. Bush instead of on one another. 
"Just to make this a little less mellow," Dr. Dean began, setting up a suggestion that Mr. Kerry had little to show for his 19 years in Washington. "When I was governor, I got everybody in my state who is under 18 health insurance.
"Now, Senator Kerry is the front-runner, and I mean him no insult, but in 19 years in the Senate, Senator Kerry sponsored nine, 11 bills that had anything to do with health care, and not one of them passed. If you want a president who is going to get results, I suggest that you look at somebody who did get results in my state."
Dr. Dean, subdued but seeming a bit prickly over his campaign's sinking fortunes, also suggested that the other candidates had appropriated his themes.
"Everybody on this stage, or a lot of people on this stage have now embraced my message," he said. "They all talk about change. They all talk about bringing people into the party. The truth is, I stood up for that message when nobody else would."
Still the candidates generally focused on what they described as President Bush's failures, faulting him for his conduct on national security and on the economy.
"A president has to be able to walk and chew chewing gum at the same time," said Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, arguing that Mr. Bush had focused on the war on terrorism at the expense of other domestic needs.
Senator Kerry said Mr. Bush had exaggerated the threat from Iraq, and he mentioned the failure to find unconventional weapons in Iraq and the failure to link Al Qaeda with Saddam Hussein.
"I could run a long list of clear misleading, clear exaggeration," he said. "They are really misleading all of America, Tom, in a profound way." He was responding to a question from the moderator, Tom Brokaw of NBC.
Asked about a call by David A. Kay, the former chief American weapons inspector in Iraq, for an independent investigation of what Mr. Kay said were broad failures in intelligence, Dr. Dean said he had opposed the war in Iraq because "I simply didn't believe what the president was saying."
"What we now find out," he said, "is that the vice president, Dick Cheney, went to the C.I.A. on at least one occasion, and maybe more, sat with middle-level C.I.A. operatives and berated them because he didn't like their intelligence reports.
"It seems to me that the vice president of the United States therefore influenced the very reports that the president then used to decide to go to war and to ask Congress for permission to go to war."
And Gen. Wesley K. Clark said: "When the Bush administration came to office, the Bush administration was told the greatest threat to America is Osama bin Laden. And yet almost nine months later, when the United States was struck, there was still no plan as to what to do with Osama bin Laden."
"This administration did not have its priorities right," Mr. Clark said, "and the president -- not the intelligence community and not the previous administration -- President George W. Bush must be held accountable for that."
Senators Edwards and Kerry and Dr. Dean all called for an independent commission to investigate the intelligence on which Mr. Bush relied to argue that Saddam Hussein had unconventional weapons.
The candidates also seemed to want to impress Southern voters here in the state seen as the gateway to the Southern primaries.
Dr. Dean emphasized his good relations with the National Rifle Association, saying he had worked with the gun lobby to set aside thousands of acres for conservation and hunting.
Senator Kerry reassured the audience that he was not giving up on the South, despite at least three statements he made in New Hampshire suggesting that Democrats could win without carrying any states in the region. He said those statements had been in response to mathematical questions about the Electoral College and whether it was possible for a Democrat to prevail without carrying any Southern states.
"I've always said I will compete in the South," Mr. Kerry said. "I've always said I think I can win the South."
He said he would do so by talking "mainstream American values."
The candidates also discussed the economy in a state that has lost more jobs than at any time since the Great Depression, seen its manufacturing base steadily disappear overseas and watched 65,000 jobs in the textile industry alone vanish in the last 10 years.
Dr. Dean said that the North American Free Trade Agreement ought to be changed to extend labor and environmental protections to America's trading partners.
"You've got to put the emphasis on fair trade, not free trade," he said. "And what the problem has been that when the Clinton administration and the Bush administration continued to push this, only half the job was done. We forgot about the workers."
But Mr. Lieberman said Democrats should "rightfully brag about the Clinton economic record," which he said created 22 million jobs. "Trade was a key part of that, and Nafta, though it's cost some jobs, has actually netted out 900,000 new jobs that were created by Nafta," he said.
"Now, the jobs that are leaving South Carolina, very few of them are going to Mexico and Canada," Mr. Lieberman said. "They're going to Asia. And there the Bush administration hasn't had the guts to stand up to China, and other countries there, who are ripping off patents and copyrights of ours, who are fixing their currency in a way that gives them a price advantage and causes jobs here to be bled out of the country.'
Mr. Kerry, who vowed to give American workers a "fair playing field," said the president was "selling their jobs out to large corporations," and he vowed to close tax loopholes that reward companies for moving offshore. He also attacked Mr. Bush for promising $120 million for technical training for workers in his State of the Union address, "when they cut a billion dollars over the course of the last few years.
"That's like kicking down the barn door and saying, 'Here are some twigs. Rebuild it,' " Mr. Kerry said.
Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, who calls for repealing Nafta, demurred when Mr. Brokaw suggested that Americans were used to paying less for clothing made overseas, even if it cost South Carolinians jobs.
"That presumes that people of this country do not have a social consciousness," Mr. Kucinich said. "I believe they do."
It was Mr. Edwards who sought to connect most with voters here.
"This is personal to me," he said, noting that he was born in a textile-mill village 40 miles from Greenville.
"I've seen mills close, I've seen what it does to communities, I've seen what it does to families. 
"And all this talk among politicians in Washington about, 'We're going to get you job a retraining program, we're going to make sure that we give you the transportation to get to a new job' -- say that to a 50- or 55-year-old man who's been supporting his family his entire life working in a mill."
The chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Terry McAuliffe, has said that any candidate who does not win a state on Tuesday should drop out of the race. But all of them suggested on Thursday that they would win states and would carry on.
Mr. Edwards said, "This is a place where I believe I can and should win." 
The Rev. Al Sharpton spurned the idea of getting out.
"There are people that I can bring into the process that won't come in if someone like me is not in the process," Mr. Sharpton said. "I've been inspired in this campaign hearing John Edwards talk about he's a son of a mill worker. Well, I'm the son of a man who couldn't be a mill worker because of the color of his skin. But his son can be the president of the United States."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Democratic hopefuls at a debate last night were, from left, John Kerry, Joseph I. Lieberman, Al Sharpton, Wesley K. Clark, Howard Dean, Dennis J. Kucinich and John Edwards. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); AL-QAEDA (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); DENNIS KUCINICH (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (52%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (52%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



761 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Grand Jury Is Investigating Founder of Strong Funds
The New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, has convened a grand jury to consider evidence against Richard S. Strong, left, founder of Strong Capital Management, according to people briefed on the proceedings.
 The grand jury has been hearing evidence for several weeks about short-term trades made by Mr. Strong in mutual funds managed by his company. The investigation has cast a cloud over Mr. Strong's attempts to sell his majority stake in the company. Page C3. 

Pixar Ends Talks With Disney
Pixar Animation Studios, which produced last summer's popular "Finding Nemo," said that it was ending talks on continuing its 12-year partnership with the Walt Disney Company and would seek another studio to distribute its films after 2006. A1.

Fewer Stocks for Pension Insurer
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation plans to reduce its investment in stocks to 15 percent to 25 percent of its total investments from the current 42 percent. C3.

American Express Deal With MBNA
American Express reached a deal to have its credit cards issued by MBNA. The agreement assumes that Visa and MasterCard will fail in their appeals to overturn a court decision seeking to open their networks. C3.

Medicare Drug Benefit to Cost More
The Bush administration revised its estimates of the cost of the new Medicare drug benefit, saying the program would cost at least $530 billion over 10 years, or one-third more than the price tag used when Congress passed the legislation two months ago. A1.

Yukos to Pursue Sibneft Merger
The board of Yukos has recommended that management resume merger talks with Sibneft, which called off a $13 billion deal in November after the arrest of the chief executive of Yukos. C3.

Freddie Mac Reserves to Increase
Freddie Mac, which last year restated earnings by $5 billion because of accounting errors, must keep 30 percent more capital, or at least $32.6 billion, on reserve than previously required at least until it releases financial statements for 2003, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight said. Freddie Mac already meets the standard, with $33.2 billion on reserve. The requirement is one of 16 announced by the regulator to bolster the finances of Freddie Mac. C9.

USA Today Orders Outside Inquiry
USA Today appointed a panel of three outside journalists to review every article written since 1982 by Jack Kelley, the foreign correspondent who resigned this month after the newspaper found he had misled editors conducting an investigation of his work. C2.

Fed Comments Still Rattle Stocks
Blue-chip stocks rose and technology stocks fell. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 41.92 points, to 10,510.29, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumped 5.63 points, to 1,134.11. The Nasdaq composite index fell 9.14 points, to 2,068.23. C5.

Federal Reserve policy makers debated on Dec. 9 whether to stop saying that they would hold interest rates low for a "considerable period" before deciding to keep the phrase. C5.

A Housing Boom in New York City
New York City is in the midst of a housing boom that extends across much of Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx, including areas where developers once feared to tread without large government subsidies. The number of permits for new homes rose sharply in the city last year, to the highest level in 30 years. A1.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,510.29 up 41.92Nasdaq composite -- 2,068.23 down 9.1410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.18%down 0.02The euro -- $1.2405 down 0.0079The dollar -- 105.93 yen down 0.15 Graph: "TODAY" shows G.D.P. figures since the 2nd Quarter.Fourth-quarter figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +5.0% Graph shows Freddie Mac share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAND JURY (92%); ANIMATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); MEDICARE (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); MERGERS (75%); ANIMATED FILMS (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (69%); WRITERS (64%); JOURNALISM (64%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: VISA INC (83%); WALT DISNEY CO (83%); PIXAR ANIMATION STUDIOS INC (71%); PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (69%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (67%); STRONG CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); OAO NK YUKOS (54%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (83%); DIS (NYSE) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (71%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (67%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (67%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



762 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: On Baseball; 
An Independent Owner Is Needed for the Expos

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
MAJOR League Baseball has held the Montreal Expos hostage long enough. It's well past time to liberate them and let an independent owner determine their future.
 It's too late for a new owner to salvage Vladimir Guerrero, the Expos' best hitter, and Javier Vazquez, their best pitcher, for which other National League East teams are grateful. But before the Expos completely disappear down the baseball drain, M.L.B. needs to set them free. 
 Baseball officials, interestingly, do not disagree that the time has come or has passed to sell the Expos to an independent owner. They just can't seem to decide where they want that owner to operate the team.
Major League Baseball, in effect the other 29 clubs, bought the Expos for $120 million before the 2002 season. The deal was part of an unprecedented three-way franchise swap that was engineered to enable a group friendly to the baseball hierarchy to buy the Boston Red Sox. For John Henry, the principal owner of the Florida Marlins, to be free to buy the Red Sox, he had to sell the Florida Marlins. The buyer, conveniently, was Jeffrey Loria, who owned the Expos. 
Baseball officials were so eager to pull off the complex deal that they lent Loria $38 million, much or all of it designed to be interest free, to add to the $120 million Loria received for the Expos. That enabled Loria to pay Henry the $158 million he paid for the Marlins.
Meanwhile, Major League Baseball wound up as the Expos' proprietor, and not much about the arrangement has smelled right since. 
Have baseball officials interfered with the operation of the club, telling its executives what they could and could not do? No, not in such a direct, blatant way. But the Expos' payroll has been held hostage to a group of owners who have not been about to subsidize a team that could beat their team in the standings.
Why would the Mets or the Phillies, for example, want to enable the Expos to retain their best players -- Guerrero, Vazquez and others? 
No one has ordered the Expos to shed those players, but they have been told what their payroll can be, and the designated payroll has not had room for such high-priced players, unless the Expos want to play with 15 to 18 players on their 25-man roster.
To their credit, General Manager Omar Minaya and Manager Frank Robinson have done a remarkable job in generating winning records in their two seasons running the Expos. Their ability to maintain that streak, however, decreases with each player they lose.
Baseball officials argue that other teams in economically dire circumstances face the same problems the Expos have confronted. Many teams, they say, have had to make difficult decisions and shed good players. 
Look at the players the Minnesota Twins have given up this off-season: Eddie Guardado, LaTroy Hawkins, Eric Milton, A. J. Pierzynski. The Marlins have shed Ivan Rodriguez, Ugueth Urbina, Braden Looper, Derrek Lee and Juan Encarnacion.
But those teams made those decisions on their own; they weren't forced to make them by officials and owners who were acting in their own selfish interests, not those of the team in question. One of the game's new owners, Arturo Moreno of Anaheim, on the other hand, has opted to spend money, signing Guerrero and Bartolo Colon, among others.
Another ramification of the Expos' economic and ownership limitations: Tommy John, until last week a pitching coach in the Montreal organization, told the Expos last year about a good college prospect in the Southeast, but because they are underfinanced, the Expos had no scouts in the area to follow the pitcher. Toronto drafted him instead, and Tom Mastny compiled a first-year 8-0 record with a 2.26 earned run average for Auburn of the New York-Penn League.
The Expos for years have developed good young players through their minor league system; ithas been their lifeline. If major league ownership aborts that, the Expos will deteriorate quickly and irretrievably. 
So, what should Major League Baseball do? Move quickly to select a new site for the Expos and sell them. Why hasn't it happened long before this? The economy, for one reason.
At one point officials believed they would reap a windfall for the Expos, going so far, an official said, as to tell the owners they would each earn a $10 million profit on their initial investment. But that would mean selling the Expos for about $400 million, which was probably never realistic but certainly wasn't once the economy turned bad.
Whatever the price, baseball has exceeded the deadline that should have been placed on the sale and relocation of the Expos.
Baseball continues to investigate a whole roster of cities and areas -- Washington; Portland, Ore.; northern Virginia; southeastern Virginia (Norfolk); Las Vegas; San Antonio; and Monterrey, Mexico. But each site has drawbacks.
Some baseball officials acknowledge that northern New Jersey might have been the best possible site demographically, but the area's officials have demonstrated no interest in building a park and pursuing the team.
Washington officials have long believed they were the front-runner for the Expos and don't understand baseball's hesitancy in placing the team there. Peter Angelos, the Baltimore Orioles' owner, is reason No. 1.
Baseball officials most recently have said they will have a decision by the All-Star Game in July. The Expos and their suitors have heard similar claims before. It would not be in the best interests of baseball or the Expos to let this latest deadline slip past. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (95%); SPORTS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%) Baseball; Finances; Relocation of Business

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%); MONTREAL EXPOS (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (83%); FLORIDA MARLINS (82%) Montreal Expos

PERSON: Murray Chass

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (56%) QUEBEC, CANADA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%) Montreal (Canada)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



763 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: As India's Economy Rises, So Do Expectations 

BYLINE:  By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
Raghu Shenoy, 36, is a tad worried about financial matters.
 Though business is booming at the software company he founded here, Bit by Bit Computer Services, expenses for his traditional Indian wedding, planned for the end of February, are slowly spiraling beyond his budget. 
First, he has to entertain his guests lavishly at a riverside resort two hours' drive from the city. He has booked it for three days of celebrations. Among the guests will be a handful of his overseas clients, mostly from Britain. The hotel stay for them and some other guests, along with the wedding feast expenses, will add to the bill, which is nearing $25,000. And that does not include the outlay for the honeymoon in New Zealand with his bride, Usha Kempegowda. 
 "The upbeat Indian economy is not helping me," Mr. Shenoy lamented half seriously. "I find people's expectations have shot up and I'm spending 10 times more than I would have spent some years ago."
 The economy is indeed buoyant. Gross domestic product grew 5.7 percent in the country's first quarter, which ended in June, then jumped 8.4 percent in the next quarter, compared with levels the previous year. And the bounce is being felt across nearly all business sectors. 
 The government is expected to take advantage of the positive mood by moving up elections, originally scheduled for the end of the year. Instead, they may be held as early as April, just after the country completes a fiscal year in which growth is forecast to exceed 7 percent -- perhaps even 8 percent.
 The country is experiencing a rare trifecta, said Amit Chandra, an executive vice president at DSP Merrill Lynch in Bombay. "For the first time in the last several decades, agriculture, manufacturing and services are showing a simultaneous revival." 
 Good rainfall, the best in more than half a dozen years, has bolstered the agricultural sector, and that, in turn, has increased consumer demand and manufacturing. High-technology businesses continue to grow spectacularly. A gradual upturn in the global economy is expected to bring in an even greater bounty of outsourced jobs to India. 
 In addition, despite political and labor opposition, India's government is slowly loosening its stranglehold on various industries through privatization of state-owned companies.
 Of course, huge pockets of poverty remain. And experts warn of a subtler economic soft spot.
 "The outlook for India's mammoth, and growing, fiscal deficit is poor," said Jyoti Narasimhan, a principal economist with Global Insight, a research and forecasting firm based in Waltham, Mass. 
 Still, she said, at least for a while, "consistent, high economic growth rates, as well as judicious policies implemented by politicians and technocrats, will continue to boost personal wealth of all Indians, including the buoyant middle class and the very poor." 
 Vivek Kulkarni, a career bureaucrat turned high-technology entrepreneur, said, "The euphoric mood in the economy is backed by solid signs."
 "Take a one-mile stretch on Bannerghatta Road in southern Bangalore and the construction points to 45,000 new software and services jobs right there," he added. It is a stretch that includes offices of multinationals like Oracle, I.B.M., Accenture, Hewlett-Packard, PeopleSoft, Honeywell and HSBC Bank.
 Before becoming chief executive of B2K, a Bangalore-based technology support company, in November, Mr. Kulkarni led the local government's software services department and was responsible for attracting high-technology investment. The ripple effects of India's economic boom, he said, are being felt in cities across the country. 
 "It is hard to get a hotel booking" in Bangalore, Delhi or Bombay these days, he said, adding: "Can you believe that I went to a restaurant for dinner last week to find all the tables were reserved for the evening? This used to be unheard-of in Bangalore."
 Mr. Kulkarni said that his company, which offers technical support, medical billing and customer behavior and satisfaction analysis services to companies in the United States, had grown to nearly 200 employees from 118 in November. His marketing team, a half-dozen Americans based in Flint, Mich., and Denver, is busy, he said. "Providing the marketing leads and even fixing up appointments for the team is done out of Bangalore," he added, indicating the extent of back-office work being carried out in India.
 Other industries, including automobiles and pharmaceuticals, have gained from an increased demand for high-quality products made in the country's low-cost manufacturing plants.
 Adding to the cyclical upturn, India's foreign exchange reserves have grown to more than $100 billion. Its stock markets increased 73 percent in valuation, to $278 billion, with foreign concerns investing close to $7 billion.
 Mr. Chandra of DSP Merrill Lynch said that the economic restructuring of the last decade had finally taken root and helped Indian industry become globally competitive. 
 "In the last six months, confidence levels of companies have gone to historic highs," he said. Continued growth, healthy balance sheets and steady cash inflows helped Indian software concerns make bold cross-border acquisitions of software, auto components, drugs, telecommunications and other businesses.
 Recent public offerings of companies have met with overwhelming response. Last month, for instance, investors applied for 36 times more shares than were offered for TV Today Network, an Indian television news company whose parent is Living Media India, one of the country's largest magazine publishing groups. And according to Prime Database, a capital market research firm based in New Delhi, about $13 billion worth of public offerings are expected during 2004. Among those lining up are several state-owned companies. 
 The bounty has been trickling down. "The spread of roads and cellular phones in rural areas has made development tangible even for India's rural population," Mr. Chandra said, "and it has become abundantly clear that the economy will play a large factor in the election."
 Skeptics, however, say that not even 2 percent of India's population has been directly affected by the boom, and point to the abysmal state of infrastructure in urban centers and the stark poverty in India's villages. They are critical of the government's boast in large, countrywide advertisements that India is shining.
 "For the thousands who have lost government jobs in the privatization process and for those involved in traditional occupations such as silk farming, there is hardly any good news," said Narendar Pani, an economist and senior editor at the country's leading financial newspaper, The Economic Times.
 Yet, the fact that political parties are taking economic development seriously is an indication that economic growth can now be sustainable, Mr. Chandra said. "This is the healthiest thing to happen to India."
 Even smaller slices of industry are benefiting from -- and echoing -- the widespread jauntiness. 
 The entertainment industry, for instance, is expected to grow 8 to 12 percent, on top of its 7 percent growth rate in 2003.
 "Entertainment content will reflect the positive mood, with heavy family melodramas on television giving way to frothier, lighter forms," said Sunil Lulla, the Bombay-based executive vice president of Sony Entertainment Television.
 There is, for example, Sony's new series "Jassi Jaisi Koi Nahin" ("There's Nobody Quite Like Jassi"), he said, a show that follows the comic life of an underdog employed as an assistant in a fashion house.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Companies like Hewlett-Packard, with this office in Bangalore, have added many high-technology jobs. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. W7); India's rapidly growing economy has fueled demand for consumer goods like jewelry at this store in New Delhi, above. Even so, poverty in cities like Bombay, left, remains stark and widespread. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. W1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); POLITICS (86%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); PRIVATIZATION (66%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); AGRICULTURE (62%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Consumer Behavior; Politics and Government; Elections; Gross Domestic Product

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: Saritha Rai

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (88%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%) India; Bombay (India)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



764 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: The Intelligence on Iraq: What Went Wrong? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Ex-Arms Monitor Urges an Inquiry on Iraqi Threat" (front page, Jan. 29): 
 Before judging Central Intelligence Agency analysts, we should recognize the inherent difficulty of assessing weapons in a country ruled by a barbaric totalitarian regime. 
Recall how badly West Germany underestimated the slide of the East German economy, despite having a common history and language. 
The real problem has been the weakness of our covert effort, which critics attribute in part to our overreliance on technology. But the use of technology was made necessary by public hostility toward covert spying and restrictions placed on it by well-meaning but naive legislation.
And we have seen restraints, if not bans, on C.I.A. recruitment at top colleges. Why should we expect better intelligence if we discourage our brightest students from intelligence careers?

MICHAEL KRAYNAK JR.
Ridgewood, N.J., Jan. 29, 2004

The writer is a retired captain, Naval Reserve Intelligence.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (88%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); NAVIES (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Intelligence Services; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%)

PERSON: Michael Jr Kraynak

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



765 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Albany Pact Would Refinance Co-op City 

BYLINE:  By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
Co-op City, the sprawling apartment complex in the Bronx, has reached a $475 million agreement with the state to refinance its crushing debt and to receive new loans to fix its crumbling facades, broken windows and collapsing parking garages.
 At a news conference yesterday, local officials said that the state's Housing Finance Agency and the Division of Housing and Community Renewal had agreed to refinance Co-op City's $192 million mortgage and to lend its struggling management company about $275 million for capital repairs. 
 The agreement, which has not yet been formally approved by the state, is the biggest step in years toward calming the often bitter wrangling between Co-op City's 50,000 residents and state officials who oversaw its construction in the 1960's under the Mitchell-Lama housing program. The agreement also comes at a crucial moment for the mainly working-class complex, which is so big it would form the 12th-largest city in the state if it seceded from the Bronx. 
 In short, Co-op City is a wreck. Its balconies are falling apart. Many of its 80,000 windows are broken. Its power plant is crippled. Its elevators shudder. Its roofs leak.
 The huge collection of apartment towers, which sits on more than 300 acres between Interstate 95 and the Hutchinson River Parkway, suffered perhaps its worst blow last July when six of its eight parking garages were deemed unsafe and were closed. The closings set off a parking emergency as nearly 7,000 people were left with nowhere to put their cars. To accommodate them, Co-op City's board of directors agreed to turn their largest park into a parking lot.
 Officials of the Riverbay Corporation, Co-op City's residents association, said that Assemblyman Stephen B. Kaufman, who represents their district, and Adolfo Carrion Jr., the Bronx borough president, were instrumental in working with the state in a time of financial hardship.
 "This is a very, very, very remarkable day for me," said Al Shapiro, a plumber who is the corporation's president. "I am grateful to these officials for their help."
 Mr. Kaufman noted that the state had also agreed to reduce by nearly a third the money it claimed Co-op City's residents owed in arrears. Whereas the state once claimed that residents owed some $154 million, it will now accept $57 million, which is repayable starting in 2014, he said. 
 Tracy Oats, a spokeswoman for the Housing Finance Agency, refused to comment on the agreement, saying the agency's board had yet to formally approve it.
 The state loan would allow Co-op City not only to rebuild its garages and fix its crumbling balconies, which have forced residents to set up wooden fences in front of every building, lest chunks of concrete fall on someone's head. It would also allow them to buy new boilers and turbines to generate their own electricity. 
 Mr. Kaufman said it was possible that the equipment might someday allow Co-op City to sell surplus power to the surrounding neighborhood.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Co-op City's Garage 8 in the Bronx. Last July, six of the complex's eight garages were closed as unsafe. (Photo by Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%) Housing; Co-Op City (Bronx, NYC); Finances; Mortgages; Credit

COMPANY: RIVERBAY CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: Housing Finance Agency (NYS); Division of Housing and Community Renewal (NYS) 

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (65%)

PERSON: ADOLFO CARRION JR (58%) Alan Feuer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



766 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Fourth Tribe Is Recognized In Connecticut; Casino Feared 

BYLINE:  By STACEY STOWE

 BODY:
The federal Bureau of Indian Affairs yesterday formally recognized the existence of an Indian tribe based in northwestern Connecticut, to the dismay of political leaders and residents who fear that the designation will lead to the creation of a third casino in the state.
 Richard L. Velky, the chief of the tribe, the Schaghticoke Tribal Nation, based in Kent, said he wanted time to savor the news before tackling the topic of whether the tribe would pursue the gambling business, but he did not rule out the possibility of a new casino. 
 "I've always said a casino might be within our view for economic development," he said. "But we would need a host community before we pursued anything." 
 The Schaghticokes (pronounced SKAT-a-coke,) are the fourth tribe in Connecticut to receive federal recognition. Two of the tribes, the Mashantucket Pequots and the Mohegans, each operate a highly profitable casino. A third, the Eastern Pequots, was recognized in June 2002.
The state's political leaders swiftly condemned the federal government'sdecision to recognize a fourth tribe and vowed to appeal.
 "I support the attorney general's efforts to overturn the ruling," Gov. John G. Rowland said in a statement released shortly after the decision was announced. "I also wish to make clear at this time my complete opposition to the further expansion of casino gambling in Connecticut."
 Richard Blumenthal, Connecticut's attorney general, said federal recognition of the tribe was "astonishing and appalling because it is so clearly wrong." He said the tribe had failed to meet the criteria for federal recognition, which include showing consistent political leadership and evidence of an ongoing community.
 "There's a gap of 150 years, which the B.I.A. says can be overcome," Mr. Blumenthal said. "This is not the law, nor has it been."
 The Schaghticokes have sought federal recognition for 25 years. In December 2002, the federal government denied the request, but the group sent more than two dozen binders of evidence to fortify its claims, said Linda Gray, the tribe's genealogist.
 In a statement, the Bureau of Indian Affairs acknowledged that the Schaghticoke Tribal Nation had more than 300 members on a reservation "established by the Colony of Connecticut in 1737 and confirmed in 1752." 
 Mr. Velky, the chief, said he had visited more than two dozen parcels of land, mostly outside of Kent, to gauge their suitability for economic development if the tribe achieved federal recognition. Such development could include a casino.
 "But only in a town that wants one," he said. 
 That would appear to rule out the town of Kent, whose first selectwoman, Dolores Schiesel, flatly said there was no support for a casino.
 The tribe owns 400 acres of land in Kent, and its new status alarmed Ms. Schiesel for several reasons.
 "The tribe receiving federal recognition means change for us," she said. "If the decision stands, there won't be a community of Kent. You won't recognize it as it exists right now." 
 Whether or not the tribe pursues a casino, recognition means that it is regarded as a sovereign nation, exempt from local control.
 It also entitles tribe members to federal benefits, like scholarships, low-interest loans and medical care. Steven Austin, the tribe's cultural anthropologist and a former employee of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, said the federal status meant that land taken from the tribe could be restored.
 Since 1981, the Schaghticoke Tribal Nation has sought 2,000 acres adjacent to its reservation, claiming that it was taken from them.
 The bulk of the parcel includes land owned by the Preston Mountain Club, a private fishing club, and about half the campus of the private Kent School. It also includes acreage on the federally managed Appalachian Trail, and other town and private land. The town, school, and federal government are among the parties fighting the land claim.
 David J. Elliott, the lawyer for Kent School, said the school would contest the tribe's status.
 "The Kent School feels the Schaghticoke Tribal Nation does not satisfy the criteria for an Indian tribe under federal law," he said.
 Ms. Schiesel expressed concern that the recognition would bolster the tribe's claim on the land.
 Mr. Austin said it would indeed. "We expect it will back up our claim to land that was taken from us," he said. "The land could be returned to us as acreage or as part of a cash settlement."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laurel Schliemer, left, Shelly Martinez, center, and Daniel Bishop, members of the Schaghticoke tribe. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (92%); GAMING (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CASINOS (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (87%); REAL ESTATE (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%) Indians, American; Schaghticoke Indians; Casinos; Gambling

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (93%) Bureau of Indian Affairs

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (78%) Stacey Stowe

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Kent (Conn); Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



767 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: Upstate Has a Full Dance Card; 
Politicians Court Region as Both Parties Covet Its Votes

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: SYRACUSE 

 BODY:
The day a major employer in this economically beleaguered city began handing out pink slips, Senator Charles E. Schumer traveled around reassuring residents that he was working hard to turn around the region's economy. 
 A day later, it was Hillary Rodham Clinton's turn. Though bad weather grounded her flight to Syracuse, Senator Clinton, in telephone calls from her home in Chappaqua, made her presence felt, offering her support. 
 Coincidence? Perhaps. But the back-to-back efforts by these two prominent New York politicians this month also reflect what has become one of the most significant developments in state politics: the continuing battle for votes in the upstate region. 
 Hardly a week goes by without a major statewide figure from either party touring the villages, towns and cities scattered in between the vast stretches of farmland and mountains that dominate the landscape upstate.
 The region is desperately in need of help, with manufacturing jobs in steep decline, unemployment of more than 5 percent and, in many places, decreases in population as young people move to find jobs that pay well. 
 In part because of those economic issues, upstate is no longer a bastion of conservatism that Republicans could take for granted and Democrats could dismiss as enemy terrain. The region is in play as it has never been before, politicians and strategists in both parties say, at a time when it still accounts for a large bloc of votes: about 40 percent of the statewide electorate in 2002, compared with about 33 percent in New York City and 27 percent in New York City's suburbs (Westchester, Rockland, Nassau and Suffolk Counties).
 "There's a reason that politicians go upstate all the time: That is where the votes are," said Lee M. Miringoff, the director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion. "Neither party can afford to take the region for granted anymore. It's up for grabs."
 The first signs that the battleground was shifting in New York came in 1998, when Mr. Schumer, a Democrat, defied conventional wisdom and devoted a great deal of attention to upstate in a successful effort to topple Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, a Republican. Though Mr. D'Amato took upstate 53 percent to 45 percent, Mr. Schumer managed to win several counties that have considerable sway in statewide elections, most notably Monroe, which includes Rochester, and Erie, which includes Buffalo.
Then, in 2000, there was more evidence of a breakdown in the usual geopolitical patterns that had long governed statewide campaigns. Mrs. Clinton soundly defeated Rick A. Lazio, a Republican congressman from Long Island, in part by drawing big support from upstate voters. Mrs. Clinton was only three points behind Mr. Lazio upstate, validating her strategy of making constant trips to the region during the campaign.
 "The single biggest change in New York politics in the last six years has been the fact that upstate New York has shifted from a Republican stronghold to an up-for-grabs battleground," said Howard Wolfson, one of Mrs. Clinton's advisers.
 Even Republicans concede that the area requires some hard work on their part. "Upstate has taken on a completely new role in New York politics," said one senior Republican strategist. "It really has become a major swing region."
 Political analysts say one related consequence is that Republicans have been forced to look to New York City, a Democratic bastion, as a source of new votes to offset the ground they have lost upstate.
 A prime example has been the strategy of Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, who has shrewdly courted Democratic constituencies in the city, chiefly Hispanic voters and labor unions. In his three elections for governor, the share of the New York City votes that he won grew from 28 percent to 33 percent to 39 percent, the last being the best number a Republican candidate for governor has posted in the city in five decades.
 It is a matter of debate which politician is delivering the most for the upstate region. But if polls are any measure, Mr. Schumer is doing the best job of wooing voters there. A Marist poll showed that 55 percent of upstate voters surveyed gave Mr. Schumer a favorable rating, compared with 49 percent for Mr. Pataki and 46 percent for Mrs. Clinton.
 Mr. Schumer's standing upstate is worth noting for another reason. In the 1998 Senate race, when Mr. Schumer was a congressman from Brooklyn, Mr. D'Amato ran advertisements against him that sought to play to the enmity upstate voters felt toward the city. "Liberal Brooklyn Congressman Chuck Schumer doesn't think upstate New York matters," the narrator in one ad said. "On Election Day, send Chuck Schumer a message: There's more to New York State than just Brooklyn."
 In an interview, Mr. Schumer joked that he has clearly proved Mr. D'Amato wrong since taking office and suggested that his travels upstate had played a big role in his victory. "Upstate is no longer in the pocket ofeither party and has become a new battleground," he said. "That's good for upstate because politicians from both parties are paying attention to it."
 To get an idea of how coveted the upstate vote has become, it is worth considering the travel schedule and policies of Mr. Pataki, Mr. Schumer and Mrs. Clinton.
 By the count of Mr. Pataki's office, for example, he visited 75 upstate communities in 2003, the year after his election to a third term. The pace required him to fly around the state at least once a week, his advisers said. That year, Mr. Pataki's press office issued 165 releases on issues that are popular among upstate voters: creating jobs in the region and enticing companies to move here. 
 The governor has also taken credit for creating a kind of Silicon Valley upstate, something he calls the Empire State High-Tech Corridor. This corridor, his aides say, boasts four hubs for technological innovation: the Center of Excellence in Bioinformatics in Buffalo, the Center of Excellence in Photonics and Optoelectronics in Rochester, the Center of Excellence in Environmental Quality Systems and Clean Energy Technologies in Syracuse and the Center of Excellence in Nanoelectronics in Albany. It is an accomplishment that Mr. Pataki and his aides routinely promote, though some Democrats deride it as pie in the sky.
 Mrs. Clinton's schedule upstate is busy too, and has been ever since her so-called listening tour and her Senate campaign took her to the remotest corners of the upstate region again and again. She has made at least 18 trips upstate since the beginning of September, including one to Syracuse the day after the Carrier Corporation, the city's best-known company, announced that it would close its plants and no longer make air-conditioners here. The senator sought to console distraught workers, saying she, too, felt betrayed.
 In that period, Mrs. Clinton also delivered what her staff billed as a major policy speech, announcing that she was joining forces with one of the leading members of her husband's White House economics team to try to address upstate New York's economic problems. The speech got widespread coverage. Her advisers say she continues to push a package of legislation in Washington that she unveiled in her freshman year to bolster the upstate economy.
 As for Mr. Schumer, it might appear as if there are the makings of a new sitcom in the very idea of the senator making the rural rounds, the deep strains of Brooklyn in his voice. But, in fact, he has become a comfortable fit at county fairs, town hall meetings, parades, tulip festivals and the like. (He also takes nothing for granted as he campaigns for re-election this year, even though he has an enormous war chest and no Republican challenger yet.)
 Mr. Schumer's advisers say he plans to visit each of the state's 62 counties at least once this year, as he did in his first five years in office. In the first three weeks of this year, he took advantage of the long Congressional recess to visit nearly 30 counties, most of them upstate.
 On his visits, Mr. Schumer displays the qualities of a town manager and a cheerleader, addressing myriad issues raised by local leaders, no matter how small. On the senator's trip here in central New York, for example, a local mayor approached him after a meeting with business leaders to seek help in getting money for a new fire truck. Thirty minutes later, Mr. Schumer was standing alongside local officials inside City Hall in Syracuse, where he introduced federal legislation to deal with the city's gang problem.
 "Everywhere you turn, there's Senator Schumer," said William J. Fitzpatrick, the Republican district attorney in Syracuse, who is one of the pillars of the upstate political establishment. "It's unbelievable."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Senator Charles E. Schumer at the Marietta Corporation two weeks ago in Cortland, N.Y., and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in East Syracuse in October in response to the announcement of layoffs at the Carrier Corporation. (Photo by Chris Rank for The New York Times); (Photo by Allison Cooper for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); MOUNTAINS (73%); CITIES (73%) 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); CHARLES SCHUMER (90%) Raymond Hernandez; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Charles E (Sen) Schumer

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004 



768 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-9

New Iraqi Agency To Hunt Guerrilla Fighters
The Iraqi authorities, with the help of American agencies, are creating an intelligence service that will focus on rooting out guerrilla fighters, especially those from outside the country. It is expected to be formed well before the transfer of sovereignty. A1

Andrew Gilligan, the reporter at the center of the dispute between the BBC and the British government over whether the government had exaggerated the case for war against Iraq, resigned from the BBC. A8

Hunting Al Qaeda in Pakistan
Tribal elders in Pakistan were asked by the Pakistani Army to hand over 72 men wanted for sheltering members of Al Qaeda or be punished. In the last two weeks, the tribes have turned in 42 of the men, and bulldozed and dynamited the homes of 8 who refused to surrender. A1

Israeli Forces Enter Bethlehem
Israeli armored forces rolled back into Bethlehem for the first time in six months to make arrests and destroy the family home of the suicide bomber who claimed 10 Israeli lives on Thursday. A3

French Ex-Premier Convicted
A former French prime minister, Alain Juppe, was convicted of corruption in a party scheme to create phony City Hall jobs during part of the time President Jacques Chirac was mayor of Paris. He was sentenced to an 18-month suspended prison term and disqualified from public office for 10 years. A5

Prison for German Cannibal
A German computer technician who killed and ate a willing victim he found through the Internet was convicted of manslaughter. A3

Bird Flu Continues to Spread
Chinese officials confirmed outbreaks of the deadly avian influenza in two rural interior provinces, Hunan and Hubei. They also said suspected cases had been reported in three locations in central Anhui Province; in one location in Guangdong Province in southern China; and in one location in Shanghai. A5

NATIONAL A10-14, 18

Decrying Special Interests, But Still Taking the Money
The Democratic presidential candidates have been vowing to drive "special interests" and "influence peddlers" out of the White House. But campaign finance figures show that several of the contenders have benefited significantly from those whom they decry. A1

Senator John Kerry stood squarely at the center of the Democratic presidential race, resolutely trying to keep the focus of his campaign on President Bush, but facing assaults from two rivals on core Democratic issues. A13

Close to 3,000 people from across the country crammed into an auditorium in Columbia, S.C., to press six of the seven Democratic candidates to discuss issues concerning low-income voters. A13

Settlement Near in Bias Suit
General Motors is close to becoming the second automaker to settle a class-action lawsuit that contends the industry's lending practices allowed car dealers to discriminate against blacks and other minorities when they set loan rates. A10

Tauzin Expects to Leave House
Representative Billy Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who has been courted in recent weeks for lobbying positions with the motion picture and pharmaceutical industries, expects to leave public life this year, his spokesman said. A14

Bush Reaffirms Budget Goal
President Bush said that the sharp increase in the projected cost of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit would not prevent him from meeting his goal of cutting the federal budget deficit in half during the next five years. A14

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Hint of Water Found on Mars
The Mars rover Opportunity appears to have located iron oxide -- the second hint of water in the ancient past -- at a broad plain near the planet's equator, some scientists involved in the project said. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

A Landmark in Brooklyn Stops Refining Sugar
The Domino Sugar refining and packing plant in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, which has overlooked the East River since the 1880's, was closed by its owner. The company made the decision in August because of falling demand for cane sugar. B3

Blaming It on the Trains
The wintry wallop has greatly hindered Metro-North service on its fleet of 800 aging electric cars. And though the Metropolitan Transportation Authority approved a new order of snow-resistant trains, commuters have been lamenting one of the worst stretches of train service in recent memory. B1

Tribal Status Resolved
The federal Bureau of Indian Affairs' formal recognition of the existence of the tiny Schaghticoke Tribal Nation in Connecticut has set off a showdown over casinos, Indian sovereignty and the other issues. B5

More Eagles Seen This Year
New York City park rangers have been dazzled by the profusion of eagles this year and by the fact that some are lingering for days. B1

Beliefs B6

Neediest Cases B4

ARTS & IDEAS B7-20

An Afterlife and the GNP
What really stimulates economic growth is whether you believe in an afterlife -- especially hell, according to two Harvard scholars who analyzed data collected in 59 countries between 1981 and 1999. B7

OBITUARIES A15

SPORTS D1-7

N.F.L. Commissioner's Warning
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue warned the league's 1,696 players that they could face increased penalties during the 2004 season for taunting and similar acts. D3

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Pixar and Disney Unsettled
Pixar Animation Studios and the Walt Disney Company have been in unsettled situations since Pixar walked away from talks to extend its partnership agreement with Disney. C1

Complaint Against Insurer
Federal and state regulators prepared a complaint against the insurer Conseco, asserting that it provided advantages to big investors that that increased profits but hurt small investors. C1

Coca-Cola Under Investigation
Federal investigators are questioning current and former employees of Coca-Cola about allegations that the company inflated its sales figures by selling surplus amounts of beverage concentrate in several key international markets. C1

Stocks End Week Down
The Dow fell 22.22 points, to 10,488.07, 80.22 points below last week's close. The Nasdaq declined 2.08 points, to 2,066.15, 57.72 points lower than last week's close. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Making votes count: hacking an election; Pakistan's nuclear responsibility; a Super Bowl deficit; the gift horse.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B10
TV Listings B20
Crossword B16
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); LITIGATION (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (85%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); IRAQ WAR (73%); MANSLAUGHTER (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); ARMIES (72%); CLASS ACTIONS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); MAYORS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (69%); INFLUENZA (69%); SENTENCING (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); DISCRIMINATION (64%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (61%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%) CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (86%); SOUTH CHINA (86%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (57%); ANHUI, CHINA (57%); HUBEI, CHINA (57%); HUNAN, CHINA (57%) CHINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



769 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Pace of Economic Growth Slowed in Last Quarter
The economy grew at an annual rate of 4 percent in the final quarter of 2003, much slower than the torrid pace of last summer though still rapid by historical standards, the government estimated.
 After scrutinizing the latest data, many analysts predicted the most important indicators of future growth still point to a very strong year. Consumer spending and business investment both continued to grow, and exports soared by 19.1 percent. Page A1. 

Stocks Fall on Disappointing Data
The disappointing gross domestic product figures sent stocks lower. The Nasdaq composite index was down 2.08 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,066.15, losing 57.72 points, or 2.7 percent, on the week, its second consecutive decline. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 22.22 points, to 10,488.07, and the Standard & Poor's 500 index decreased 2.98 points, to 1,131.13. C4.

Settlement Near in G.M. Lawsuit
General Motors has reached a tentative settlement in a class-action lawsuit that said the industry's lending practices let car dealers discriminate against blacks and other minorities when they set loan rates. A10.

Bush Stands Pat on Cutting Deficit
President Bush said that the sharp increase in the projected cost of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit would not prevent him from meeting his goal of cutting the federal budget deficit in half in five years. A14.

Gateway to Acquire EMachines
Gateway is acquiring the privately held eMachines in a deal valued at $266 million. The deal would make the combined company the third-largest PC maker in the American market, behind Dell and Hewlett-Packard. C2.

Take-Two to Restate Results
Take-Two Interactive Software is delaying the filing of its annual report to restate results for the last five years to reflect concerns raised by securities regulators. C2.

New York Magazine Columnist Quits
Michael Wolff, the media columnist for New York magazine who was part of a failed bid to buy the publication, will become a contributing editor at Vanity Fair on March 1. He will write eight columns a year for Vanity Fair on the media industry and three long feature articles. Mr. Wolff had generated a great deal of attention with his portraits of media moguls since joining New York in 1998. C2.

DaimlerChrysler Trial to Resume
The judge overseeing Kirk Kerkorian's fraud lawsuit against DaimlerChrysler said the trial will resume Feb. 9 or March 11, asking the two sides to agree on the date. C14.

Inquiry Will Not Hurt Adecco
Adecco said that an investigation into accounting weaknesses at its North American unit had not uncovered any problems large enough to significantly effect 2003 earnings. Shares of Adecco rose 8.05 Swiss francs, to 65.50 Swiss francs on the Zurich exchange. C3.

Sanofi Explains Its Offer for Aventis
As the chairman of Sanofi-Synthelabo met with shareholders of Aventis to explain its proposed $60 billion takeover offer, there was a report that Novartis had hired investment bankers to assess the feasibility of being a white knight to Aventis. C3.

Inventor Wins a Round in Tokyo
The Tokyo District Court ruled that the Nichia Corporation must pay 20 billion yen ($189 million) to the inventor of a widely used semiconductor device in a decision that opens the way for other inventors to make claims on the revenue generated by their research. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,488.07 down 22.22Nasdaq composite -- 2,066.15 down 2.0810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.14% down 0.04The euro -- $1.2472 up 0.0067The dollar -- 105.74 yen down 0.19 Graph tracks the Nasdaq composite index since Jan. 2003.Yesterday: 2,066.15 (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); WRITERS (85%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); CREDIT REGULATION (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); NEW CAR DEALERS (67%); ACCOUNTING (67%); CLASS ACTIONS (67%); JUDGES (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); COMPUTER MAKERS (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ADECCO SA (80%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (65%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); NEW YORK MAGAZINE (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); SANOFI SA (50%)

TICKER: ADI1 (FRA) (80%); ADEN (SWX) (80%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (65%); GM (NYSE) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); SNY (NYSE) (50%); SANF (BIT) (50%); SAN (PAR) (50%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (80%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (65%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



770 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Faith Can Enrich More Than the Soul 

BYLINE:  By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
Forget investment and savings rates, worker productivity and wage scales to determine which countries will become richer or poorer. What really stimulates economic growth is whether you believe in an afterlife -- especially hell. 
 At least that's what two Harvard scholars have found after analyzing data collected in 59 countries between 1981 and 1999. 
"Our central perspective is that religion affects economic outcomes mainly by fostering religious beliefs that influence individual traits such as honesty, work ethic, thrift and openness to strangers," the researchers, Robert J. Barro and Rachel M. McCleary, wrote in a recent issue of American Sociological Review. (They also happen to be married.) "For example, beliefs in heaven and hell might affect those traits by creating perceived rewards and punishments that relate to 'good' and 'bad' lifetime behavior." 
The data comes from six international surveys, including ones by Gallup, the World Bank and researchers at the University of Michigan. They include questions about attendance in places of worship and religious beliefs. There were four measures of economic development: per capita gross domestic product, educational attainment by adults, the urbanization rate and life expectancy. 
Oddly enough, the research also showed that at a certain point, increases in church, mosque and synagogue attendance tended to depress economic growth. Mr. Barro, a renowned economist, and Ms. McCleary, a lecturer in Harvard's government department, theorized that larger attendance figures could mean that religious institutions were using up a disproportionate share of resources. 
"It's all been rather surprising," Ms. McCleary said."People didn't believe you could quantify aspects of religion. We wanted to be intellectually provocative. We see about five more years of study to get out all the stuff we want. We're trying to raise interesting questions in a different way."
Since the German sociologist Max Weber wrote about the Protestant work ethic and the spirit of capitalism, social scientists have argued that culture -- including religious habits -- is part of the complex mix that determines a country's economic health. What distinguishes the work of Mr. Barro and Ms. McCleary, some scholars said, is that it uses a sophisticated analysis of a huge set of data to quantify the arguments of anthropologists, sociologists and political scientists. 
"The study's important less for what they found than that they looked," said Mark Chaves, a professor of sociology at the University of Arizona, in Tucson. "They are not the first to look at this but they are the first to look at this as systemically and as rigorously as they have. For forever, people have been saying that culture matters in analyzing economies." 
"I think this is a new beginning for the rigorous relationship between religion and economic development, " added Mr. Chaves, whose forthcoming book examines how religious congregations influence politics and culture. "They've given us a data set and some tools to examine this in a new way."
One of the motivations for undertaking the study, Ms. McCleary said, was that empirical research on economic growth typically neglected religion's influence.
The research team also wants to look at how religion affects other political and social issues like democracy, the rule of law, fertility and health. At the moment, they have a paper on government and the regulation of religion that is under review by the American Journal of Sociology at the University of Chicago.
Some of their findings, which have been written about in The Economist and The Christian Science Monitor, first appeared in 2002 as a paper for the National Bureau of Economic Research.
As the couple began their study, Ms. McCleary said, it was clear that the widely discussed secularization thesis -- the idea that a country becomes more secular as it becomes richer and more industrialized -- did not apply to the United States, one of the most religious nations in the world.
And over the last 30 years, many East Asian countries, including Malaysia, Singapore and South Korea, have experienced both rapid economic growth and the spread of Christianity, Mr. Barro said.
"South Korea is a good example of that rapid growth and more religion," he said. There the number of converts from Confucianism and other Eastern religions to Christianity is growing rapidly, he explained. 
Some of the lowest levels of religiosity were found in China and North Korea. The lowest levels of economic growth were in sub-Saharan African countries. The former East Germany (which includes Weber's birthplace) was one of the lowest in both religiosity and growth.
But one of the major challenges to such research is that countries that vary in their religious beliefs and practices also vary in ways that have nothing to do with religion, said Paola Sapienza, a professor of finance at Northwestern University. "Are you really picking up religion or something that correlates with it, like certain laws or social and economic institutions?" she asked.
Last year, in the Journal of Monetary Economics, Ms. Sapienza and her colleague Luigi Zingales, at the University of Chicago, and Luigi Guiso, at the University of Sassari in Rome, published a paper that did not compare countries but looked at the relationship between religious beliefs and the attitudes shown to foster economic growth. "On average," they wrote, "religious beliefs are associated with good economic attitudes, where good is defined as conducive to higher per capita income." 
But that study found that more religious people were also less tolerant of other races and nationalities and had more negative attitudes toward women. The study based its findings on World Values Surveys data collected at the University of Michigan. 
Mr. Barro and Ms. McCleary also used data from the World Values Surveys, which Ronald Inglehart, a political scientist at the University of Michigan, has been taking for more than 20 years. His surveys of 78 countries show strong links between widespread public values and beliefs, or political culture, and motivation to work, sexual and religious norms and the presence or absence of democratic institutions. 
"I find that belief factors play a major role in economic growth, but here is one of the world's leading economists saying so," Mr. Inglehart said, referring to Mr. Barro. "When Weber argued that big breakthroughs in economic growth were in Protestant countries, it was at a time when many cultures were shaped by Protestant institutions. His notion in the broadest sense is that belief factors play a role in economic factors."
"This is a revised view of the Protestant ethic," he continued. He noted that many mostly Protestant, wealthy countries were now more interested in quality of life, and that many Eastern countries were now more focused on economic growth -- with some populations even converting, as Mr. Barro noted, to Christianity and specifically to Protestantism.
"Confucian countries are now the most Protestant countries on earth, in terms of a moral imperative to work hard, save money, to do well," Mr. Inglehart said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Worlds not so far apart: praising God at a church in Queens, left, and trading in the Eurodollar pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. (Photo by Rebecca Cooney, left; Agence France-Presse)(pg. B7); Rachel M. McCleary and Robert J. Barro, Harvard researchers who have linked religion to economics. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); ETHICS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); TRENDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); URBANIZATION (67%) Religion and Churches; Research; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%) Harvard University

PERSON: Felicia R Lee; Robert J Barro; Rachel M Mccleary

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



771 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1566 words

HEADLINE: On the Dark Side Of Democracy 

BYLINE:  By EMILY EAKIN

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
To most Americans, the notion that free markets and democracy are essential to curing the world's ills is an article of faith. If only Iraq and Afghanistan, Cuba and North Korea, Syria and Rwanda would adopt both, their people, not to mention the world, would be safer and richer.
 Yet to Amy Chua, a professor at Yale Law School, such accepted wisdom is mostly evidence of a persistent and disturbing national naivete. All too often, she says, bringing free markets and elections to developing nations leads not to stability or prosperity but to hate-mongering, discrimination and even genocidal violence. 
 The idea that political and economic liberty could trigger such atrocities is heretical to many Western liberals. That, Ms. Chua says, is because people here are blind to ethnicity. 
"I think it's kind of a taboo topic in the West," said Ms. Chua, 41, during an interview at her office on the Yale campus. America, she said, doesn't like to talk about ethnic conflict: despite a long history of racial problems, assimilation is part of the national creed. But in much of the developing world, she argues, nations are starkly divided along ethnic lines. Disproportionately wealthy ethnic minorities -- Ms. Chua calls them market-dominant minorities -- exist alongside poor and resentful majorities. And in such cases, she insists, adding democracy and free markets can be disastrous. 
As she states the case in her recent book, "World on Fire: How Exporting Free Market Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global Instability"(Doubleday, 2003): "Markets concentrate wealth, often spectacular wealth, in the hands of the market-dominant minority, while democracy increases the political power of the impoverished majority. In these circumstances the pursuit of free market democracy becomes an engine of potentially catastrophic ethnonationalism." And this, she adds, is precisely what is happening today in Indonesia, Sierra Leone, Zimbabwe, Venezuela, Russia and the Middle East." 
With its volatile mix of Sunnis (the elite Muslim minority favored by Saddam Hussein), Shiites (the generally poorer Muslim majority) and Kurds, Iraq could soon join the list, Ms. Chua said. "It's a big mess," she said. "You have a 60 percent Shiite majority that has long been oppressed and has just every reason to take back the country and re-establish its identity."
A Chinese-American whose family is from the Philippines, Ms. Chua says she has seen firsthand the destructive effects of free markets and democracy. Both arrived in the Philippines after its independence from the United States in 1946, benefiting the tiny, entrepreneurial Chinese community at the expense of the Filipino majority. Though they make up barely 1 percent of the population, she writes, "Chinese Filipinos control as much as 60 percent of the private economy, including the country's four major airlines and almost all of the country's banks, hotels, shopping malls and major conglomerates." 
Today ethnic tensions on the island are high. In November 2003, The New York Times reported that there had been 156 kidnappings so far that year -- apparently a 10-year high. Most of the victims, some of whom were eventually murdered, were ethnic Chinese. In 1994, Ms. Chua's aunt was stabbed to death in her home by her Filipino chauffeur. He was never arrested. And though he stole money and jewelry from his employer, Ms. Chua writes, the motive listed in the police record was not robbery but "revenge."
Longtime critics of America's markets-and-elections approach to the developing world are finding lately that the chorus of dissenting voices joining them has swelled. The optimism many analysts felt after the fall of the Berlin Wall has waned, dissipated by more than a decade of bloodshed and strife in Somalia, Rwanda, the Balkans and the Persian Gulf. And the theoretical model that experts relied on to predict orderly transitions from dictatorship to democracy is in shambles. 
That may be one reason Ms. Chua's book, which was published a year ago and released in paperback earlier this month, has received respectful reviews from magazines on both sides of the political spectrum, including The Nation, Mother Jones, The Weekly Standard and Business Week. Some analysts dispute her thesis, saying she exaggerates the prevalence of ethnic conflict, making, for example, too much of the fact that many of Russia's wealthiest moguls are Jewish. Still, her book has appeared briefly on The New York Times best-seller list and even garnered Ms. Chua an invitation to address a group at the Central Intelligence Agency. 
Today skeptics of America's democratization policies include scholars and commentators, liberals and conservatives, even if few of them agree with one another. Among the most influential are the Harvard political scientist Samuel Huntington, one of the first to question the wisdom of rapid democratization; the Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph E. Stiglitz; the journalist Robert D. Kaplan; and, most recently, Fareed Zakaria, the editor of Newsweek International whose latest book, "The Future of Freedom" (Norton, 2003), argues that one way to curb the negative effects of too much democracy too fast is to allow countries to first pass through a period of gradually liberalizing autocracy. 
In a much-discussed article published in the Journal of Democracy in 2002, Thomas Carothers, a democracy specialist at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, declared that the "transition paradigm" favored by pro-democracy advocates for the last 20 years had outlived its usefulness. 
"Of the nearly 100 countries considered as 'transitional' in recent years, only a relatively small number -- probably fewer than 20" have made some democratic progress, Mr. Carothers wrote. He listed some of the creative terms that analysts have invented to describe countries in what he called the gray zone: "semi-democracy, formal democracy, electoral democracy, facade democracy, pseudo-democracy, weak democracy, partial democracy, illiberal democracy and virtual democracy." By using such labels, he wrote, "analysts are in effect trying to apply the transition paradigm to the very countries whose evolution is calling that paradigm into question." 
In a telephone interview, Mr. Carothers acknowledged that the field of democracy studies was in flux. "We are coming to the end of one way of thinking about democratization," he said. "The questions that people are really agonizing about are: in countries where market reforms are not functioning very well, what's the solution to this? Was our market message wrong? Or was it just implemented wrong? It's still a matter of debate how much inequality has been produced." 
Even so, he added, many of the problems that foreign nations face are the legacy of European colonialism, not United States policy. "It's not true that ethnic conflict was created by the wave of democratization," he said. "Why should democracy get the blame for failed empire?" 
In his view, Ms. Chua's book "is based on a straw man of U.S. policy, which says that America is constantly trying to force democracy down the throats of other countries." In truth, he said: "Many of the countries want to try democracy. We're rarely in the driver's seat." 
Nevertheless, critics complain, America's approach is both precipitous and simplistic, encouraging political liberalization in nations that may not have the social and economic conditions necessary to sustain it. "We're not prepared to understand, assess and respond to the complexities of other societies," said the economist Jeffrey D. Sachs, who has served as an adviser to governments in Russia, Poland and Bolivia. 
Mr. Stiglitz agreed, saying that democracy experts tend to ignore social variables like ethnicity and gender. In Malaysia, for example, he said, the local government created a successful affirmative action program to benefit the indigenous Malay majority -- and ward off ethnic conflict with the prosperous Chinese minority -- over the objections of Western advisers. And in Rwanda, he said, the transition from customary to formal law put land formerly controlled by women under male ownership, an outcome Western experts failed to anticipate.
Most critics are quick to stress that they are not against democracy, free markets or globalization per se; they merely object to the way these ideals have typically been pursued. "I'm an optimist," Ms. Chua said, summing up her position. "In the last 20 years, we have done things in many ways so badly, so foolishly, often with the best of intentions -- like dropping a stock exchange in Mozambique or xeroxing copies of the U.S. Constitution. I think we can do better."
In her book, she argues that one way to reduce inequality and ethnic tension in democratizing nations is for market-dominant minorities to share some of their wealth by making "significant, visible contributions to the local economies in which they are thriving," by which she means building universities, hospitals or recreational facilities, supporting local schools and employing members of the indigenous majority in their companies. 
It is an idea, Ms. Chua admits, that her wealthy relatives in the Philippines may not find appealing. But then, she says, she decided not to send them her book. "I do not know what my extended family thinks," she said. "And I'm terrified to find out."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Arts & Ideas last Saturday about some scholars' contention that free markets and democracy often harm developing nations referred incorrectly to the geography of the Philippines, which one of them cited as an example. It consists of about 7,100 islands; it is not an island.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Amy Chua, the author of "World on Fire," says that ethnicity is "kind of a taboo topic in the West" and that Americans are often blind to it. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. B7); Children play in a poor district of Manila, above. In the Philippines, the Chinese minority controls 60 percent of the economy. Aracinovo, left, a town in Macedonia, had few remaining inhabitants after ethnic Albanians clashed with Macedonian forces in 2001. (Photo by EPA/Mike Alquinto); (Photo by Andrew Testa for The New York Times)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNICITY (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RELIGION (78%); LITERATURE (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); RACE & RACISM (75%); ASIAN AMERICANS (75%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BOOK REVIEWS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); AIRLINES (50%) Politics and Government; Discrimination; Third World and Developing Countries; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (91%) Yale University

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) Emily Eakin; Amy Chua

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (72%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PHILIPPINES (94%); IRAQ (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SYRIA (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); RWANDA (92%); ALBANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



772 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CAMPAIGN; 
Low-Income Voters Get Chance to Ask Questions

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C., Jan 30 

 BODY:
Lucille Tucker, an American Indian from Montana, wanted answers about health care. Her grandson committed suicide, she said, because insurance would not cover medication for his bi-polar disorder.
 James Holloway, a black retired textile worker from South Carolina, wanted to know how people in his small town could survive with so many manufacturing jobs moving overseas. 
 Rosa Arevalo, a Hispanic woman who runs a child care center for poor families in Los Angeles, asked for a public education policy that would keep children in her neighborhood from falling through the cracks. 
From different cultural backgrounds and life experiences, close to 3,000 citizens were bused in from around the country and filled a downtown auditorium here to press six of the seven Democratic presidential candidates to discuss issues from a perspective they said is too often ignored on the campaign trail: that of low-income voters. 
As the political energy has shifted to the seven states that will hold primaries and caucuses on Tuesday, much attention has been placed on South Carolina as the first Southern contest and the first with a sizable number of black voters. But organizers of the town-hall-style forum said their intent was to broaden the focus from its concentration on geographic and racial lines to include a discussion of the nation's class divisions. 
"We want to make low-income families the soccer moms of the 2004 race and beyond," said Deepak Bhargava, executive director of the Center for Community Change, a Washington umbrella agency for grass-roots groups and chief organizer of the dialogue, which was the first major event in a $15 million voter education and registration project aimed at low-income voters. 
The 90-minute forum was moderated by David Stanton, a television news anchor here, and Tom Joyner, a nationally syndicated morning radio show host.
For all the energy and angst displayed, participants acknowledged that translating the forum into political capital will take considerable effort. Low-income voters -- those at the bottom third of the wage scale -- have a voter turnout rate of under 50 percent, according to the Census Bureau. Those living under the poverty line voted at a rate of only 38 percent in 2000, Census reports indicate. Middle- and upper-income voters had a turnout above 60 percent.
The multi-racial representation on display for the national forum, some grass-roots organizers said, is not so easy to generate at the local level.
In sharp contrast to the nationally televised debate from Greenville, S.C., on Thursday night in which the candidates played off one another in a staid repeat of past encounters, the local forum -- in which the candidates took the stage one at a time -- shined its spotlight on people struggling daily with the issues rattled off in stump speeches. 
When Ms. Tucker dissolved into tears as she talked about her grandson's death and Gen. Wesley K. Clark grasped her hand in sympathy, Deana Knutsen, a white Seattle woman who said her sister also died because she could not afford health care, jumped in to make sure the candidate offered not just consolation but answers. 
"We don't have time to wait for a grand plan," said Ms. Knutsen, 49, who then pressed General Clark for more specifics about his stance on private versus public insurance. 
"This is the wealthiest country in the world and we've got plenty of money to take care of every person in this country and keep them healthy," General Clark said. "We just have to have some leadership to do it."
Other questioners tried to push the candidates out of their well-rehearsed comfort zones. 
Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, in his opening remarks, seemed ready to address the plight of poor blacks in South Carolina. Instead, his first question concerned American Indian issues, and when he finally got a question from a black man, it was to urge him to better answer a Hispanic woman who had asked about Mr. Kerry's plan to improve access to citizenship for immigrants.
Mr. Kerry said he supported a guest worker program for illegal immigrants and used the opening to get to a more practiced retort: criticizing President Bush's proposal as "exploitive." 
Over all, the candidates stuck to their finely honed campaign personas. Senator John Edwards of North Carolina played to his Southern roots and working-class background. 
Howard Dean criticized President Bush, saying he was trying to create a permanent class system in the United States. Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio tried tostrike a populist chord, and the Rev. Al Sharpton got rousing applause when he answered a question on trade by saying, "I got here as an African because of bad trade policy." 
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut was the only one of the Democratic candidates who did not attend. Organizers said he was scheduled to take part but pulled out the evening before the forum to campaign in Delaware.
The event took place in a state that, according to the Labor Department, lost more than 41,000 jobs last year and had a poverty rate of 14.7 percent, among the highest in the country. 
Yet Mr. Holloway, a school board member from Saluda, S.C., a rural county in the central western part of the state, said that political participation in his town was lackluster and that blacks and whites rarely came together on common issues. 
"When I see whites and blacks and all other groups coming to the cause it keeps me from giving up," he said after the event. "I haven't felt this kind of high since I went to the Million Man March."
Not all attendees had reached a decision on whom to support as they filed out of the auditorium. Elaine Johnson, of Cordova, S.C., a black woman whose son was killed in Iraq last November, came to find out about the candidates' plans for getting the troops out of Iraq, and how they would create jobs so poor youth wouldn't feel pressured to enter the military simply to escape poverty. 
"I was pleased with the answers I got," she said. "But I'm still undecided." 
Buck Jared, 50, a white disabled logger from Idaho, said that the event was as much about the opportunity to pose questions as to listen to candidates' answers. 
"People like us have really not had all that much say in who gets elected in the past," Mr. Jared said. "But here we're all playing a part. Just to hear low-income, elderly and disabled people from all over speaking up for themselves. It's awesome."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A march for economic justice preceded a forum yesterday in Columbia, S.C. From left were Florence Hilton, Erma Peterson and Bea Dunn. (Photo by Travis Bell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); SUICIDE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); CAUCUSES (74%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (74%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CHILD CARE (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); CENSUS (69%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; United States Economy; Income; Presidential Election of 2004; Registration of Voters; Primaries

ORGANIZATION: Center For Community Change

PERSON: Lynette Clemetson; Joseph I (Sen) Lieberman; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; Howard Dean; Wesley K (Gen) Clark; Al (Rev) Sharpton; Dennis J (Rep) Kucinich

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (78%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (96%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



773 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 34 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR DROPS. The dollar fell after a government report showed that the economy expanded less than forecast in the fourth quarter. In New York, the euro settled at $1.2472, up from $1.2405 on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since Aug. 2002. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%) Currency; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



774 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Debt-Heavy Economy May Be Too Jittery About Rates 

BYLINE:  By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
For many Americans, the last couple of years have been a prolonged borrowing spree. Families piled on debt to buy homes. They put new computers on credit cards. They bought cars on dealer credit and refurbished their houses with home equity loans. 
 This consumer spending has been the main pillar of the economy, which expanded at a 4 percent annual rate in the final quarter of 2003 after powering ahead at an 8.2 percent rate in the third quarter. But it has exacted a cost, too. Since 1999, household debt has risen from 70 percent, to nearly 83 percent of the gross domestic product, the total value of the goods and services produced in the nation. 
 The proportion of household income that went toward servicing that debt hit 13.3 percent in the third quarter, only slightly under the record high of 13.6 percent reached in late 2001. Family finances are being stretched.
So when the Federal Reserve Board unnerved financial markets on Wednesday and sent stocks and bonds tumbling by suggesting that it might start increasing interest rates sooner than most investors had expected, one concern was: Could the Fed puncture the lending bubble, stall consumer spending and cut off the only reliable leg of the nation's growth? 
Despite market jitters, most economists are quite sanguine that rising rates would not pose a significant danger to the recovery. For even if consumer spending tails off, they say, businesses are in a position to pick up much of the slack.
Indeed, the Fed's strategy of keeping short-term rates at historic lows has served its purpose -- supporting the economy with cheap money that allowed consumers to spend freely, and allowing corporations to emerge from under the burden of excess capacity and big debt overhangs.
"The Fed did the economy a lot of good by resorting to a very low federal funds rate," said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investors Service. "It gave financial life to a number of companies that otherwise might not have survived."
To be sure, vulnerable companies that will be hurt by rising rates still remain. Builders will suffer if mortgage rates go up. Real estate agents, mortgage brokers and title companies will lose business if people stop buying and refinancing homes at the recent sizzling pace. 
Carmakers like Ford and General Motors, which propped up their sales through the downturn by providing customers with subsidized financing at a cost of several thousand dollars a car, will suffer as the cost of money rises. "It will dampen the rebound in demand," said Scott Sprinzen, the automotive analyst at Standard & Poor's Corporate Ratings. Indeed, the stocks and bonds of Ford and G.M. have fallen sharply since the Fed's announcement. 
But economists point to several factors that will soften the impact of higher rates as the economic upturn takes hold. First, despite rising rates, consumer spending is likely to be supported by rising payrolls. And consumers' finances are somewhat insulated because mortgages, the biggest chunk of their debt, are mostly at fixed rates. On the corporate front, as business investment and payrolls rise, the positive effect of the expansion on corporate balance sheets will be more powerful than the drag from moderately higher interest rates.
"The general economy has improved dramatically over the past few months," saidSean Egan, managing director of Egan-Jones Ratings. He added that though higher rates could dampen growth, "it is unlikely there will be a huge reversal in fortunes."
Finally, companies are in much better shape than just a couple of years ago, after two years of extremely cheap money that helped them patch up their balance sheets. "There has been tremendous profit growth," said William Cunningham, head of strategy and research at FTN Financial Securities. Companies "have not overextended themselves to make themselves vulnerable; corporate America is fine."
Indeed, companies' finances have improved sharply, according to Moody's. In the first 11 months of 2003, the rating agency downgraded $552 billion worth of debt of nonfinancial corporations, about half of the amount downgraded in 2002. And the amount of debt upgraded last year roughly doubled from the year before.
In the last two years, companies have been cautious about borrowing after being burned by the investment binge of the late 1990's, which left them saddled with debt and excess capacity. According to data from the Fed, nonfinancial corporate debt grew by a little more than 1 percent in the third quarter of last year. 
Companies have also rejiggered their debt to make themselves less vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations. By the third quarter, more than 70 percent of the debt of nonfinancial corporations outside the farm sector was long term, mostly at fixed rates. This was up from 60 percent in 1998. 
This will protect even highly leveraged companies from the effect of rising rates in the next few months. "Airlines have a lot of debt, but an overwhelming majority of it is fixed rate," said Philip Baggaley, S&P's airline analyst. A rise in interest rates "wouldn't be expected to have a negative effect."
There is a potential doomsday chain of events. If inflation rebounds strongly and interest rates shoot up, spending would probably come crashing down, companies would freeze hiring and capital spending would be curtailed. Bankruptcies would surge, and the recovery would probably come to a halt. 
But even as it put a scare into financial markets on Wednesday, the Fed is not anticipating anything close to that scene. Indeed, it noted that inflation is "quite low" and "resource use slack." If it pointed to a slightly faster pace of rate rises than it had previously contemplated, it was in response to perkier signs of growth. 
In short, the Fed's message was: interest rates tend to rise when economies accelerate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda Lee, left, hands her credit card to Margarete Deese to pay for a purchase at a Sears store in downtown Chicago. Consumer spending has helped the economy, while household debt has been increasing. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C2) Chart: "Credit Hungry"Consumers are adding debt at a fast pace, especially home mortgages, but businesses have been more cautious. Figures are adjusted for inflation. Graph tracks the household debt (consumer credit and home mortgages) since 1990. Graph tracks the business debt since 1990. Relative to the size of the economy Graph tracks the percentage of gross domestic product (businesses and households) since 1990. (Source by Economy.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economic Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); FAMILY (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (76%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (74%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (73%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (65%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Consumer Behavior; Capital Investment; United States Economy

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (64%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



775 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Showdown Looms on Tribe's Recognition 

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS and STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: KENT, Conn., Jan. 30 

 BODY:
This postcard-perfect New England town seems an odd place for a showdown over casinos, Indian sovereignty and other issues swirling around the long-disputed status of the tiny Schaghticoke Tribal Nation.
 But when the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs formally recognized the existence of the tribe on Thursday, it set off a wave of anger, fear and confusion on the part of many residents and a good deal of resentment on the part of the 10 American Indians who live on a reservation that sits behind the exclusive Kent School here. 
 In truth, if the designation of the Schaghticokes (pronounced SKAT-a-cokes) as the fourth Connecticut tribe to receive federal recognition leads to the state's third casino, it is unlikely to come near this small town, which is quite distant from any major highway. 
 Richard L. Velky, the chief of the tribe, said on Friday that Bridgeport, Waterbury and Torrington had expressed interest in having a casino built by the tribe. 
 Mayor John M. Fabrizi of Bridgeport said he had been contacted many times by the tribe about a casino. "Bridgeport will not close it doors to any discussions if it is something good for the city," he said.
 Torrington's mayor, Owen J. Quinn, said he had not been contacted by the tribe. "If you're asking me if I would openly embrace a casino in Torrington, I'd say I'm not predisposed to that type of industry coming here," he said. Calls to the mayor of Waterbury were not returned.
 Mr. Velky said that 80 families that belong to the Schaghticoke Tribal Nation planned to move back to Kent. Many are now scattered throughout Fairfield County, with headquarters in Derby. There are 300 tribe members in all.
 "They want to move back to the 2,000 acres we believe belong to the Schaghticokes," Mr. Velky said. The tribe owns a 400-acre reservation in Kent but is pursuing a legal claim to 2,000 additional acres.
 Many local residents are not sure what to expect, but most are adamantly opposed to a casino.
 "The whole thing," said Patsy Stroble, the owner of Stroble's Baking and Catering, "can range from zero to total change."
 The prospect of a sovereign nation inside a small New England town will be a managerial nightmare, said Dolores R. Schiesel, Kent's first selectwoman. Without being obligated to adhere to local laws and ordinances, the 400 acres the tribe has in Kent can turn any which way on a number of fronts, Ms. Schiesel said. 
 If past dealings are any indication, Ms. Schiesel is uncertain as to the course of the relationship between Kent and the tribes. "The pattern is that they have been very secretive and withheld information," she said. 
 The tribe's new status is also causing consternation on the usually staid campus of the Kent School. The tribe has laid claim to some of the school's land in a fight that has already spanned two decades. 
 On the reservation itself, June Moser-Hatstat, 57, also known as Princess Chikara, acknowledged that many in Kent were upset but pointed to how she said the town had encroached upon the tribe's land when she was a child growing up on the reservation. The town condemned and bulldozed buildings whenever they could, she said. 
 Ms. Moser-Hatstat described herself as a traditionalist who thinks casinos are nothing better than glorified penny arcades. And she said she did not want one on the reservation. 
 Not all non-Indians are critical of the ruling. Sara Cousins, 39, a psychotherapist who lives in neighboring Sharon, counts herself as a strong supporter of the federal ruling and calls the local panic over the ruling unfounded and the product of racism. "They fought this in the courts," she said of the tribe. "And it appears they have history behind them." 
 Others, like Louis Greco, 73, think the decision to grant the tribe sovereignty is just, although she does not want it to lead to the construction of casinos. But Ms. Stroble of the bakery is eyeing the future warily: "We understand what they are after. Big money is behind them and at stake. And we don't fault them. We'd all like to be rich, wouldn't we?"
After the federal announcement on Thursday, state officials immediately vowed to file an appeal of the Schaghticokes' newfound status within the next 90 days.
 "Connecticut has two of the largest casinos in the world," Gov. John G. Rowland said. "We don't need any more revenue."
 The Schaghticokes have considered more than two dozen parcels of land for an economic development plan that could include a casino, Mr. Velky said, including a 455-acre site in Danbury, once headquarters to Union Carbide.
 The mayor of Danbury, Mark Boughton, said the tribe "has been making overtures" to his office for several years. 
 The state tried to stem the creation of casinos last January, when the Connecticut General Assembly repealed a law allowing Las Vegas Nights. The law had allowed gambling as fund-raisers in religious institutions, community centers and other nonprofit institutions, and according to federal law, once a state allowed that kind of gambling, it could not deny Indian tribes the right to a casino.
 Connecticut's attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, said he expected Indian tribes to challenge the state law's repeal, claiming it is unconstitutional.
 Meanwhile Mr. Velky, his voice hoarse with emotion, expressed sorrow and anger that the formal recognition of his tribe had been denounced as merely a step toward casino building.
 "The Schaghticokes have been on that land since the late 1600's, but no one wants to hear about our history," he said. "The reaction has been nothing but sour grapes. Well, we're a sovereign people now. We've been recognized. They'll see they have to recognize us, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: June Moser-Hatstat says the town of Kent, Conn., encroached upon her tribe's land when she was a child. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); GAMING (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%) Indians, American; Schaghticoke Indians; Casinos; Gambling; Law and Legislation; Law and Legislation; Indians, American; Land Use Policies

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (84%) Bureau of Indian Affairs

PERSON: Marek Fuchs; Stacey Stowe

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (87%) NORTHEAST USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Kent (Conn); Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



776 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: TRADE; 
Globalism Minus Jobs Equals Campaign Issue

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C., Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Challenging the wisdom of free-trade agreements has become a blood sport in South Carolina.
 Local newspapers here trumpeted the state's latest job-loss figures -- 22,400 in 2003, the worst in the nation. One newspaper said the job losses suffered by South Carolina in the past three years marked the worst period since "the Great Depression." 
 New billboards ask passing drivers: "Lost your job to free trade or offshoring yet?" 
South Carolina offers the most extreme example of the anxiety coursing through the country as white-collar and blue-collar jobs alike disappear to foreign competition.
A CBS News poll of likely Democratic primary voters in South Carolina released Friday night found that 56 percent want the party's nominee to support more trade restrictions. In addition, three-quarters of the likely primary voters attributed the loss of jobs in their area to trade with other nations.
The Democratic candidates tried to tap into those trade fears on Friday at a poverty forum, saying President Bush had mishandled free trade and promising not to sign another trade agreement until workers and their jobs got the same protection as corporations now do.
Walking a thin line between bemoaning globalization and flirting with protectionism, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts said he would stop the stream of jobs overseas by only negotiating fair-trade agreements that contained labor and environmental standards. "I will not allow everyone to go, you know, to the bottom," he said.
Senator John Edwards of North Carolina repeated what could be the emerging Democratic trade policy: "We've been so focused on free trade we don't ask for fair trade."
In a sign that trade could become a preferred Democratic weapon against Mr. Bush, the complaints were bipartisan on Friday.
A few blocks away from the forum, South Carolina's two senators -- Ernest F. Hollings, a Democrat, and Lindsey Graham, a Republican -- took turns spewing anger and frustration at the current state of the American trade imbalance during a hearing about trade with China.
And it was Mr. Graham who warned the administration that its new trade agreements would meet stiff resistance in Congress so long as nothing was done about what he called the unfairness of Chinese trade. He also took aim at Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, for offering too much at trade talks. "I don't think he's a very good negotiator," Mr. Graham said.
To woo middle-class voters, Democrats link trade to the loss of three million jobs during the Bush administration -- even though experts are split on the number of jobs lost to trade rather than to, say, new technology or increased productivity.
Mr. Hollings, one of the few senior lawmakers who describes himself as a protectionist, was even more adamant. "I don't know how to wake up this country, but we have got to have a competitive trade policy," he said.
In the sound bite of a campaign, that is reduced to "jobs."
"In this election, the issue is about jobs, jobs, jobs. Moving jobs offshore is not what Democrats think trade is all about," said Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the senior Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee.
Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor, said at the forum that "all we've globalized are the corporations' rights to do business in other countries -- not the workers' rights, human rights or the environment."
The formerly wide distinctions among the candidates on trade are a blurring now that Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, who wanted an international minimum wage, has left the race and the campaign of Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who has accused his opponents of flirting with protectionism, has stalled.
There is now something approaching unanimity that the rules of global trade must be re-examined. While this may sound like old-fashioned protectionism, some of the party's most vocal free-traders say the candidates are right.
Mickey Kantor, the trade representative under President Bill Clinton, said the Democrats need to elevate trade as a critical issue facing the country and that they should question the current rules of trade, even if he wrote some of them.
"There may be a lot of heated rhetoric out there, but this is a serious issue, and the Democrats have the correct position to challenge some of the rules," said Mr. Kantor, who supports Gen. Wesley K. Clark. "Critics are laying too much at the altar of trade but it affects livelihoods and futures and it has to be debated seriously."
Like the other candidates, General Clark wants the trade laws to be more strongly enforced.
Trade now accounts for nearly a third of the economy, and the trade deficit has hit a record $38 billion. 
In critical campaign states like the Carolinas, Ohio and Pennsylvania, the link between trade and the loss of manufacturing jobs is an old complaint. But with accounting, medical and computer-software jobs also headed overseas to workers who often make a tenth of the salaries of Americans in comparable posts, the free-trade backlash is growing.
Republicans admit there is a crisis in confidence over trade. Carla A. Hills, the trade representative under the first President Bush, said the solution is to reinforce Americans' faith in free trade by explaining how many jobs are created through globalization, and assisting the workers and professionals who lose their jobs in the inevitable global shifts.
"We ought to take care of our people, provide them with good retraining and benefits," she said.
But as the American manufacturing base declined by 6 percent last year, Congress has reduced job training programs by 12 percent, or $800 million, since 2001.
Popular disaffection is driving much of this debate. Several recent surveys show that Mr. Bush is vulnerable on his trade record. The University of Maryland's Program on International Policy Attitudes found this month that a majority of its poll respondents questioned his administration's approach to trade and criticized him for failing to help retrain Americans who lost their jobs.
Critics of the Democrats' emerging position on trade say that two leading candidates -- Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards -- should take some of the blame because they voted for many of the trade agreements.
"Nobody ever wants to be called a protectionist," said Daniel T. Griswold of the Cato Institute's Center for Trade Policy Studies. "But I think it is a disturbing sight to see so many prominent Democrats running away from their party that has historically supported trade expansion to improve our economy and help developing nations." 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Saturday about a hearing of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission misidentified the city where it took place. It was Columbia, S.C., not Charleston.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We have got to have a competitive trade policy," Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, told a commission that was in Charleston yesterday for a hearing on United States policy toward China. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); OFFSHORING (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%) International Trade and World Market; Labor; Unemployment; United States Economy; Election Issues; International Trade and World Market; Free Ports and Trading Zones; Presidential Election of 2004; Protectionism (Trade)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (78%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%) Elizabeth Becker; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; Wesley K (Gen) Clark; George W (Pres) Bush; Ernest F (Sen) Hollings

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (73%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (99%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%) South Carolina; China

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



777 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Stopping The Traffickers 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
When I was in Cambodia recently, writing about two teenage prostitutes whose freedom I had purchased, Srey Neth and Srey Mom, readers started sending me frantic e-mail along the lines of: I'll wire you some money if you'll free one for me, too.
 But buying sex slaves and freeing them is not a long-term solution. It helps individuals but risks creating incentives for other girls to be kidnapped into servitude. As my experience showed, the underworld these women inhabit is complex and layered, and rescuing them involves more than just opening a door. 
 Yet even if perfect solutions are elusive, progress is possible. I felt that on this trip.
I traveled to Cambodia because I had been shocked by what I had seen there in the 1990's. I've covered wars, but nothing shook me more than interviews with 13-year-old girls who had been sold by their parents or kidnapped by neighbors.
These days the girls are 17 rather than 13, fewer are beaten or physically imprisoned, and Cambodia's success in fighting AIDS with condoms means that sexual slavery is not necessarily a death sentence.
The progress in Cambodia is mirrored by strides elsewhere, from South Korea to Romania and the Dominican Republic. And most of the credit goes to the Bush administration, particularly its State Department's trafficking office, which is shaming and threatening countries into confronting traffickers.
President Bush's policies toward women have often been callous -- cutting off, for example, funds for safe childbirth programs in Africa because of ideological disputes with sponsoring groups. But on trafficking, this administration has led the way.
Sex trafficking has become a hot issue among conservative evangelical Christians, and they have successfully pushed Mr. Bush to embrace the issue. He gave a landmark speech to the U.N. in September, and Colin Powell is moving the issue forward in a commendably bipartisan way. The new director of the trafficking office, John Miller, has bludgeoned foreign governments, telling them to curb trafficking or face sanctions.
When I was in Cambodia, that pressure translated into a brothel owner's being sent to prison for 20 years for peddling girls aged 10 and 12. Other brothel owners decided that it wasn't worth the risk and cleared out their youngest girls.
Conservative Christian leaders have called on Mr. Bush to do more, and to appoint Mr. Miller as an ambassador. But the real mystery is why most Democrats, liberals and feminist groups have been complacent on trafficking.
Senator Paul Wellstone helped direct the fight against trafficking, but since his death, leadership on the issue has passed overwhelmingly into Republican hands. Likewise, most mainstream women's groups, like the National Organization for Women and the Feminist Majority Foundation, have been shamefully lackadaisical about an issue that should be near the top of any feminist agenda.
"I'm critical of my sister feminists," says Donna Hughes, a professor of women's studies at the University of Rhode Island and an expert on trafficking. "To me, the two biggest threats to women today are Islamic fundamentalism and the trafficking and normalization of prostitution. Mainstream feminists really have not been responding tothese issues or active on them the way they should be."
With bipartisan support, child prostitution can be addressed through a combination of tactics: (1) pressure on foreign governments to crack down on brothels with underage girls or those held against their will, (2) promotion of condoms to keep prostitutes alive and (3) above all, literacy and job programs to raise the status of girls and women.
In addition, we could cripple the economics of sex trafficking in Asia by focusing on the men who buy the virginity of girls. The $500 or $1,000 payments these men make for young virgins are central to the profitability of the brothels and are responsible for bringing in the youngest girls.
In Cambodia, there was one teenager, Jen, a shy, sweet farm girl, whose freedom I had intended to purchase. But later, I couldn't find Jen, so she's presumably still in Poipet, slowly dying. To Americans, Cambodian sex slaves must seem like aliens on another planet, but talk to them and you realize that girls like Jen are people just like us. They are not a hopeless cause, and it's worth trying harder to save them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEX TRAFFICKING (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); SLAVERY (90%); PROSTITUTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WOMEN (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (78%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); AIDS & HIV (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); RELIGION (68%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (64%) Prostitution; Children and Youth; Women; Feminist Movement; Prostitution

ORGANIZATION: State Department

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Nicholas D Kristof; Srey Neth; Srey Mom; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMBODIA (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ROMANIA (79%); AFRICA (79%) Cambodia

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



778 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Economy Remained Strong In 4th Quarter,U.S. Reports 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
The nation's economy grew at an annual rate of 4 percent in the final quarter of last year, much slower than the torrid paceof last summer though still rapid by historical standards, the government estimated on Friday.
 Though the growth remained strong, it was weaker than many economists had been predicting. The pace also raised doubts about whether job creation will increase rapidly enough to reduce the numbers of unemployed significantly by the time President Bush faces re-election in November. 
 Economists had already expected growth to slow mightily in comparison with the stunning rate of 8.2 percent in the third quarter of last year. But many forecasters had been predicting that growth would hit an annual rate of 5 percent in the fourth quarter and remain well above 4 percent for the rest of this year. 
After scrutinizing the latest data, many analysts predicted that the most important indicators of future growth still pointed to a strong year. Consumer spending and business investment continued to grow -- though not as fast as in the previous three months -- and exports soared by 19.1 percent.
But they were much less certain about the outlook on unemployment, with some predicting that job growth will remain modest this year and fall well short of replacing the 2.5 million jobs that disappeared during the last three years.
"We are still growing about twice as fast as Japan and almost three times as fast as Europe," said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at DRI/Global Insight, a forecasting company in Lexington, Mass. "Nevertheless, 4 percent is probably not strong enough to have a huge impact on the jobs market. We are likely to see some gains in employment growth, but they will be modest."
President Bush, after meeting with private economists, said the latest numbers showed that the economy was vibrant and vindicated his case for last year's tax cuts.
"Today, we received news that indicates the economy is strong and getting stronger," Mr. Bush said. "These economists are optimistic about our future, and so am I." Administration officials described the growth as good, and they said they remained confident about the year ahead.
Mr. Bush's Democratic opponents seized on the new numbers to criticize Mr. Bush and his campaign to make his tax cuts of the last three years permanent.
"People looking for work are saying, 'Show me the jobs,' and those lucky enough to have work are saying, 'Show me the money,"' said Representative Pete Stark of California, the senior Democrat on the Joint Economic Committee. 
The new report came just two days after the Federal Reserve hinted that it might start to raise short-term interest rates earlier than expected, from the current level of 1 percent. Minutes from the Fed's policy meeting in December, released on Thursday, made it clear that many Fed officials became much more confident about the prospects for strong growth by early December and were already beginning to contemplate a tighter monetary policy. 
Economists said the new growth data was unlikely to change that view because the biggest drag on growth was not in consumer spending or business investment but in the more technical issue of how fast companies are restocking their depleted inventories.
Because inventories are at low levels in comparison with sales, economists expect this component of the gross domestic product to be revised upward in the weeks ahead or to climb much more sharply in the near future. 
Economists said the more important indicators of growth suggested that the economy would keep expanding rapidly. Consumer spending climbed by 2.6 percent, and business spending on equipment and software rose by 10 percent. 
Exports surged 19.1 percent, propelled by stronger growth elsewhere in the world -- and even more by the sharp drop in the value of the dollar. A weaker dollar makes American products cheaper in foreign markets, and the dollar has plunged against the euro and other major currencies.
"There has been a slowdown, but look at what the number was in the third quarter," said Joel L. Prakken, president of Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting company in St. Louis. "The numbers really look quite decent."
One question raised by the latest data was whether the explosive growth of the third quarter was simply a temporary surge fueled by last summer's wave of tax refunds, which came after Congress passed a $350 billion package of tax cuts.
Although the tax cuts will remain in force well beyond this year, their effect on pushing up short-term growth rates is limited to the immediate jolt caused when taxpayers suddenly have more money in their pockets. 
Thus, the government reported that disposable personal income surged by $160 billion in the third quarter but then inched up only an additional $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter.
But economists said spending and investment had not simply bounced back to earlier levels and were still stronger than this time a year ago.
"I look at the numbers and I see them as very positive," said Ian C. Shepherdson, who analyzes the United States economy for High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm in Valhalla, N.Y. "Over all, this is good performance."
But even extremely optimistic forecasters like Mr. Shepherdson said the key to sustained growth was a strong acceleration in job creation. 
The biggest restraint on job creation has been an almost unprecedented surge in productivity, the amount of output that companies can squeeze from the same number of workers. Productivity has risen at an annual rate of about 5 percent for the last two years, and shot up 9.2 percent in the third quarter of last year.
If productivity continues to climb at even 5 percent, something that most economists consider improbable, the economy would have to grow by more than 4 percent a year to generate a drop in unemployment. The jobless rate was 5.7 percent in December.
White House economists, fixated on the issue of job creation for both political and economic reasons, contend that the picture is already better than it appears.
Though government data on payrolls showed almost no job growth in December, government surveys of households have suggested that hundreds of thousands of jobs have been created. The contradictory evidence remains a puzzle, but one theory is that many people who no longer work at companies are now self-employed as consultants and service providers who work out of their own homes.
In addition, new claims for unemployment have declined substantially in the last two months and are now at levels that have traditionally signaled an upturn in job creation.
But businesses remain cautious about hiring and even about rebuilding their inventories. 
Brunswick, a maker of boats and boat engines, found that its dealers were keeping their inventories at record low levels even though demand was improving. 
Boat dealers sold 32 percent more Brunswick boats in the fourth quarter than they did a year earlier, but they increased their wholesale orders from Brunswick by 14 percent. 
"When people go through bad times, people want to see proof positive of a recovery before they increase their inventories," said George W. Buckley, Brunswick's chief executive.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Slowing Down"Graph tracks the quarterly change of gross domestic product, adjusted for inflation and seasonal variation, at an annual rate since 1999. (Source by Bureau of Economic Analysis)(pg. A1) Chart: "After the Recession: The Pace of Recent Recoveries"Changes in gross domestic product for the three years from the ends of recent recessions. Economic change is measured quarterly and expressed as an annual rate. Graph tracks the changes in gross domestic product for the three years from the ends of the following recessions: FEB. 1961NOV. 1970MARCH 1975JULY 1980NOV. 1982MARCH 1991NOV. 2001 (Sources by National Bureau of Economic Research; Bureau of Economic Analysis)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%) United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product; Forecasts; International Trade and World Market; Labor; Unemployment; Consumer Behavior; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); PETE STARK (55%); NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (50%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



779 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Bush Says He'll Press Ahead On Deficit Despite Drug Costs 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
President Bush said on Friday that the sharp increase in the projected cost of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit would not prevent him from meeting his goal of cutting the federal budget deficit in half during the next five years.
 A day after the administration disclosed that its estimate of the Medicare bill's cost was 33 percent higher than the one used by Congress and Mr. Bush in drafting and enacting the legislation, the White House said it had no second thoughts about the measure even though the new price tag has enraged many conservatives on Capitol Hill. 
 Mr. Bush said he was told two weeks ago that his administration's estimate of the bill's cost over the next 10 years would be $134 billion higher than the $400 billion projection developed by the Congressional Budget Office and used by Congress when it passed the bill last year. 
Mr. Bush signed the bill at a campaign-style rally in December, calling it "the greatest advance in health care coverage for America's seniors since the founding of Medicare." At the time, his political advisers said it would help the president and his party blunt longstanding Democratic attacks on them over health care.
But some fiscally conservative Republicans voted against the bill, citing their concerns about creating an expensive new entitlement program, and news of the new estimate spawned frustration among them and other Congressional Republicans as they attended a retreat in Philadelphia on Friday.
The administration often comes up with different cost estimates for legislation than the Congressional Budget Office, which in this case is standing by its $400 billion projection.
But coming at a time when Mr. Bush was already under pressure from members of his party's right wing over what they regard as excessive spending and a willingness by the White House to allow rapid growth in the size of government, the new Medicare figures exacerbated a rare breach between the president and his conservative base. 
Mr. Bush is expected to try to mollify Congressional Republicans by emphasizing his commitment to fiscal responsibility when he addresses them on Saturday in Philadelphia. The White House will release its budget for next year on Monday, and Mr. Bush has already said he will seek to keep spending on general government programs outside of the military and domestic security to annual growth of less than 1 percent, a rate that amounts to a cut when inflation is taken into account. Medicare, as an entitlement program whose benefits are built into law, would not be subject to that proposal for limiting spending.
The new cost estimate has been incorporated into Mr. Bush's budget. But administration officials said it did not have a large impact on their efforts to cut the deficit in half over the next five years because most of the costs relative to the Congressional Budget Office projection come in the second five years of the 10 years covered by the estimates.
Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, a vocal opponent of the bill, said the new Medicare figures were troubling, but not surprising.
"They confirm my concerns that it was going to be way more expensive than we were told last year," Mr. Lott said. "The bad news is I don't think this is going to be the end of it. I think it's going to be more."
He said he believed the final cost, over 10 years, would "probably come closer to $600 or $800 billion."
Senator Don Nickles, the Oklahoma Republican who is chairman of the Budget Committee and voted against the measure, said he was not surprised. "I always thought the bill was going to be more expensive than estimated," he said.
Asked by reporters about the new estimates, Mr. Bush remained supportive of the measure. 
"The Medicare reform we did is good reform, fulfills a longstanding promise to our seniors," he said after a meeting with a group of economists. "Congress is now going to have to work with us to make sure that we set priorities and are fiscally wise with the taxpayer's money."
Asked whether Mr. Bush would have signed the bill if he had known the cost would be $534 billion over the next decade, Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman, did not directly reply but said the president "absolutely strongly supports this legislation." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); BUDGETS (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (73%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals) ; Health Insurance and Managed Care

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



780 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Bush to Seek '09 Deadline for Liberty Bonds 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
President Bush plans to ask Congress to extend until 2009 the Liberty Bond program, which provides tax-free financing to help New York City rebuild after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
 The program permits the state and city to issue a total of $8 billion in tax-exempt bonds for commercial and residential construction projects, primarily in Lower Manhattan. Financing with such bonds lowers the cost of the projects. 
 The program is scheduled to expire at the end of this year, and state and city officials fear that much of its $8 billion authorization will go unused if the Liberty Bond program is not extended. 
Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg have urged the Bush administration to ask Congress to extend the program until 2009, and yesterday Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said that the president would do so, as part of his budget request for the 2005 fiscal year.
The governor and the mayor expressed gratitude for the president's planned action, which comes in a presidential election year. Mr. Pataki said he had received assurances from the Republican heads of the Senate and House tax-writing committees that they "would work with us to enact the extension."
Mr. Snow said only about $2 billion of the potential $8 billion in Liberty Bonds had been issued or approved so far. "It has taken longer than expected for the city to be in a position to utilize the full potential for these bonds," Mr. Snow said.
State and city officials have said this is so because the demand for commercial projects in Lower Manhattan has been weak, because of a high vacancy rate. They hope that an improving market over the next few years will spawn new office construction downtown that will increase use of the bonds.
The Bloomberg administration also sought a change in how the $8 billion authorization was allocated, but this will not be part ofthe president's request to Congress, said Andrew M. Alper, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation.
The program permits no more than $1.6 billion of the $8 billion to be issued as bonds for apartment construction in Lower Manhattan. As of October, 19 residential developments in the area, with nearly 7,000 apartments, had sought approval for a total of $2.3 billion in Liberty Bonds.
Senator Charles E. Schumer also praised the president's planned action, but said it was only part of what needed to be done. He said the $8 billion Liberty Bond authorization should be doubled by redirecting to the program unused tax benefits from other parts of the federal aid package. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BONDS (90%); CITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); HIJACKING (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); APPROVALS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (71%); AIRLINES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%) Terrorism; Area Planning and Renewal; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Finances; Government Bonds

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Joseph P Fried; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



781 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs; 
Using how people worship to assess who votes for whom, finding more than one 'religion gap.'

BYLINE:  By Peter Steinfels

 BODY:
Will a "religion gap" be crucial in the 2004 election?
 For several years, political analysts and insiders have been using that term to describe a phenomenon in voting patterns that runs right across denominational lines. Weekly worshipers, whatever their religious affiliation, are voting Republican rather than Democratic by margins that were perhaps 6 percent a decade ago but are closer to 20 percent now. 
 Last fall, John Green, the director of the Roy C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron, and Mark Silk, the director of the Leonard E. Greenberg Center for the Study of Religion in Public Life at Trinity College in Connecticut, examined the religion gap in the lead paper at a conference on religion in the 2004 election. 
The religion gap, they said, had become "substantially larger than the widely discussed 'gender gap"' that has favored Democrats. In the 2000 Congressional vote, for example, Republicans gained 18 percent more of the voters who attended religious services weekly than did Democrats, while the Democratic advantage over Republicans among women, they said, "was just 10 percent." 
Such findings have been translated into new political catchphrases, like "Americans increasingly vote as they pray" or "the best prediction of how people will vote on Tuesday is where they were on Sunday."
Attention to the religion gap has been reinforced by three recent polls showing that, as might be expected, a persistently religious citizenry want a convincingly religious president. 
All of this has generated insights into President Bush's likely re-election strategy and admonitions for any Democrat hoping to defeat him. 
But analysis of the religion gap and what it means for the election is far from complete. "The religion gap is very real," Professor Green, who knows as much about this as anyone, told William Bole in an article this week carried by Religion News Service. But "some people are over-interpreting the numbers," he said.
Professor Green also said that, strictly speaking, what is labeled the religion gap is more precisely a churchgoer or worshiper gap. 
When researchers look at other measures of religiosity, such as holding traditional beliefs, praying frequently or regular Bible reading, "there is a bit of a gap," he said, "but it's pretty small." Mr. Bole found something else: "The religion gap disappears, even reverses, when pollsters look at the voting habits of people who go to church a tad less frequently," he wrote. 
Exit polls in 2000 showed President Bush winning 56 percent of those reporting that they attended religious services every week, against 41 percent for Al Gore. On the other hand, 51 percent of those saying that they attended religious services "a fewtimes a month" voted for Mr. Gore, compared with 45 percent for Mr. Bush. 
The religion gap also turns out to be much narrower among Roman Catholics than Protestants. "Weekly Catholic Mass-goers supported Bush by a seven-point margin, in contrast to the 30-point margin among their Protestant counterparts," Mr. Bole wrote. 
"When it came to Catholics who reported going to Mass a few times a month, the trend was exactly reversed," he said. "Those Catholics chose Gore by a seven-point margin." That contrasted with the five percentage point advantage that Mr. Bush enjoyed among "few-times-a-month" Protestants.
Without qualifications like these, the religion gap concept can lead to the conclusion that only those attending services weekly are influenced by their faith, something not supported by polls and grass-roots observation. 
In fact, in an article titled "Do the Democrats Have a Prayer?" in The Washington Monthly last June, Amy Sullivan argued that precisely because Mr. Bush has already "maxed out" his support among conservative evangelicals, it is precisely "religious moderates" who have become "one of the least-appreciated swing constituencies in the country." 
"They include Muslims, most Catholics, and a growing number of suburban evangelicals," she wrote, "all of whom are devout" and fairly conservative on social issues -- anti-abortion, for example, although not single-issue voters on the question. But they are also uncomfortable, she maintained, with many administration policies on the economy, the environment, Iraq and civil liberties as well as with its ties to the religious right. 
Foreshadowing some of the recent criticism aimed at the Democratic candidate Howard Dean, she insisted that Democratic Party leaders were wrong, both pragmatically and in principle, to shy away from Americans' desire for religious cues as to what makes a presidential candidate tick. "Disaffected evangelical and Catholic moderates," in particular, she stated, are "not looking for a tent revival at the Democratic convention. They're just looking for a little respect." 
Ms. Sullivan's article was not, of course, a neutral analysis but advice for Democrats. It converges, however, with Mr. Bole's report and the paper by Professor Green and Mr. Silk in emphasizing that behind the general notion of a religion gap are a number of religious subgroups in which theology intersects with ethnicity, region and socioeconomic class, and which can be further subdivided between those attending religious services weekly and those attending less frequently.
Because the political loyalties of some of these subgroups are far from settled and because the last presidential election was so close, in 2004, everything will be in play.
As the politics get hotter and the analyses become more refined, candidates and their strategists may conclude that there is not just one religion gap but many. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (73%); CHURCH & STATE (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%) Presidential Election of 2004; Religion and Churches; Women; Men 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF AKRON (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); AL GORE (58%) Peter Steinfels

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 



782 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Nears Settlement In Lawsuit Over Lending 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
General Motors is close to becoming the second automaker to settle a class-action lawsuit alleging that the industry's lending practices let car dealers discriminate against blacks and other minorities when they set loan rates.
 Lawyers representing tens of thousands of African-American car buyers have reached a tentative settlement with the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, the financial services division of G.M., both sides said Friday. 
 The agreement may save millions of dollars for buyers of all races when they finance vehicles through G.M.A.C., which lends money to help people buy cars and trucks made by G.M. and other manufacturers. 
The tentative agreement, which was reported Friday by The Wall Street Journal, is expected to curb the amount dealers can add to interest rates charged on car loans and to shed light on G.M.A.C.'s lending practices. In the past, after G.M.A.C. agreed to make a loan at a certain interest rate, the dealer who had applied on behalf of the buyer could increase the rate by several percentage points and keep the difference. 
The specific terms of the tentative agreement have not been disclosed. "The details are being worked out as we speak," said Wyman Gilmore of Grove Hill, Ala., a lawyer for the plaintiffs. "We expect to file a specific agreement with the court Monday."
Under terms of the tentative agreement G.M. will not have to pay punitive damages. 
Last February, Nissan settled a similar suit. Cases are still pending against the financial services divisions of the Ford Motor Company, DaimlerChryslerToyota and Honda, and nine banks that make car loans. 
While final details are being worked out, the agreement is expected to be submitted on Monday to Judge Aleta A. Trauger of Federal District Court in Nashville for approval. 
The practice of dealer markups on loans has been criticized by consumer groups because many consumers do not understand that dealers have had wide discretion to add percentage points to the interest rates on loans offered by G.M.A.C. and other lending giants. Not all loans involve markups and for the last couple of years the major domestic automakers have been heralding zero interest loans as a selling point to buyers with good credit. 
Dealer groups have said the markup is simply a retail fee the dealer is due for shopping among lenders. 
"The dealer markup reflects a legitimate retail feefor a service rendered," said Alan Starling, chairman of the National Automobile Dealers Association, in a statement last year.
Class-action lawsuits filed in recent years allege that the markup practice turned into illegal discrimination as dealers set higher interest rates on loans to minorities. 
"Our studies have shown that minority consumers are more likely to be marked up than white consumers," said Stuart Rossman, a lawyer at the National Consumer Law Center, which is representing some of the plaintiffs in the cases.
"African-American consumers are twice as likely to be marked up as white consumers, and when a white consumer and an African-American in the same credit tier are marked up, then the African-American consumer is paying twice as much markup," he said. 
A study backed by the plaintiffs looked at $421.6 million in dealer markups paid by 1.5 million G.M.A.C. borrowers. African-Americans accounted for 8.5 percent of the customers but paid $83.9 million, or 19.9 percent of the total markup. 
G.M. has disagreed with the study's methodology. 
The lawsuits do not allege that G.M.A.C. or the other big lenders companies discriminate when they set their own rates. Rather, they contend that the industry's standard practices have given dealers the discretion to discriminate.
"Discrimination is illegal, it's a bad practice and it is bad for business," said Toni Simonetti, a spokeswoman for G.M. "G.M.A.C. has consistently shown leadership opposing discrimination and has a proven record, in millions of financed transactions, of fair treatment of consumers and of helping the American people buy the cars they want."
G.M. has already moved to put a cap on the dealer markup it permits, setting a cap at 4 percentage points in 2001 and lowering it to 3 percent percentage points in 2002. 
Plaintiffs' lawyers have said that lowering the markups further would continue to limit the discretion dealers would have to inflate loans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); LAWYERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); DAMAGES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%) Automobiles; Suits and Litigation; Credit; Discrimination; Blacks; Minorities (US)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (84%); CONSUMER LAW CENTER (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Nissan Motor Co; General Motors Acceptance Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (60%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (60%) SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004 

 
