

801 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: For Six Students, College Scholarships From The New York Times

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
David Garcia was thrilled when he learned that his 18-year-old son had been accepted at Columbia University. Financial aid would pay for most of the tuition, and the Garcia family would be responsible for what some New Yorkers might consider a trivial amount -- about $4,000 a year.
 But it was no small expense to the Garcias. 
 Mr. Garcia and his wife work for a travel agency in Manhattan that has been hit hard by the recession, and their salaries have been cut because of the company's financial problems. Their household income is about $60,000. To pay the extra $4,000 each year, he said, they would have sold their 2001 Kia and might even have sold the Staten Island house they have been living in since 1999 and moved into an apartment. 
 ''We don't have $4,000 laying around, and I don't think we will for a long time,'' said Mr. Garcia, 51. ''It's a challenge to pay the bills, but then again these days, I wouldn't say we're unique in that regard.''
 Ultimately, there was no need to sell the house or the car. His son, Daniel Garcia, a student at the Michael J. Petrides School on Staten Island, was awarded a college scholarship from The New York Times.
 Daniel Garcia and five other high school seniors will receive four-year scholarships to one of three New York City colleges participating in the program -- Columbia University, New York University and the City College of New York. Some of the students will be awarded up to $16,000, and others will receive up to $30,000, depending on the college. 
 In addition, each of the six students will receive a laptop computer, a summer job at The New York Times Company and counseling to help them succeed and make the transition from high school to college.
 ''It indisputably fulfills a crucial need,'' Mr. Garcia said of his son's scholarship. ''I've been putting off my dental work for a while, and my wife has been putting off things like that, too. It seemed like until we really knew his situation would be covered, it didn't make sense to spend money on things that could be postponed.''
 Since 1999, The New York Times College Scholarship Program has helped pay for the college educations of 218 young men and women. Over the years, the scholarships have been paid for by The New York Times Company Foundation, contributions from readers and an endowment started with a grant from the Starr Foundation, a charitable group.
 The scholarship rewards students who have excelled in and out of the classroom while overcoming tremendous obstacles, including poverty and homelessness. 
 One recipient from 1999, Anahad O'Connor, grew up in the Rutgers Houses public housing project on the Lower East Side with six brothers and sisters. He was the first in his family to graduate from college (Yale University) and is now, at 28, an author and a reporter for The Times. 
 One 2002 recipient, Lily Wu, who came to the United States from China at the age of 9 and was valedictorian at Brooklyn Technical High School, will soon graduate from Brown University's medical school. In June, Ms. Wu, now 26, will begin her residency at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston.
 A winner from 2006, Justin Jimenez, lived for about a year in a homeless shelter in the Bronx after his mother lost her job. Mr. Jimenez, 21, is now a senior at the University of Southern California, and he has directed short films, created radio ads and has pitched his ideas for movies and television shows to Hollywood executives.
 This year's six winners are just as determined -- and diverse. 
 Shi Giang Ng Tong, 20, a student at the East-West School of International Studies in Flushing, Queens, is Chinese but was born in Colombia, and speaks Spanish, English, Mandarin and Cantonese. He came to the United States in September 2006 at the age of 16, speaking no English. In June, he will graduate as valedictorian of his class, with a 96.85 average, the highest in the school.
 ''The first two months, I required a translator because I couldn't understand anything that was going on in the class,'' said Mr. Ng Tong, who is planning to go to City College. ''I was really afraid, especially my first day of school. I kind of had the feeling of being out of place, and not understanding anything. I couldn't even think of how I'm going to take the classes.''
 Daniel Garcia, the Staten Island student, founded a Rubik's Cube club at his high school, helped organize a benefit concert in April that raised about $3,000 for victims of the earthquake in Haiti and has maintained a 96.29 average -- all while struggling with lupus, a disease in which the body's immune system attacks healthy tissue. He was a junior when he had an idea about all the spare change he saw on the floor in the school's locker room and cafeteria: put a jar at the cash register of the school snack store so that students could donate their nickels and quarters to various charities. About $100 a month ended up being collected in the Change4Change Jar. 
 He is considering majoring in earth and environmental engineering at Columbia. ''My parents didn't raise me to be this top honors student who goes after everything,'' he said. ''They taught me to be a good person. They taught me to live for others and to be grateful and be sincere and be honest. They taught me to change the world.''
 Brian Palacios, 18, has known family upheaval and financial strain growing up in the Bronx. But he focused on his studies at the Bronx High School of Science and was accepted at Columbia, where he plans to major in psychology. 
 And there is Sion Choi, who was born in South Korea and who made a goal of becoming fluent in at least six languages by the time she turned 30. She knows three (her native language, Korean, as well as English and Spanish) and is working on a fourth (German).
 Some students at Benjamin N. Cardozo High School in Queens spend their summers doing nothing more than relaxing, but Ms. Choi, 17, a senior at Cardozo, is not one of them. She helped children on a Native American reservation in Sisseton, S.D., as part of an annual summer mission trip sponsored by her church, the Manhattan Mission Church, where her father is the pastor. 
 ''I could have been having fun with my friends or doing other things,'' said Ms. Choi, who will be attending N.Y.U. ''After a while it didn't really become a sacrifice. It became something I wanted to do.''
 Not many students choose precalculus as an elective. But Pardeep Kumar, 19, who will graduate from Aviation High School in Queens in June, did. 
 By the end of the summer, he will have earned two Federal Aviation Administration licenses for aircraft mechanics and completed an engineering internship with North American Airlines. Raised by a single mother who works as a cashier at a food court at La Guardia Airport, he had been worried about how to pay for college. He started working part time as a cashier at a Marshall's store when he was 16 to save money for college. 
 ''I've always tried to never let my mom down,'' said Mr. Kumar, who plans to major in mechanical engineering at City College. ''I always want her to be proud that I'm her son.''
 Konstantinos Constantellis, 17, a senior at Fort Hamilton High School in Brooklyn and the son of a tailor, has starred in school productions of ''Rent'' and ''Macbeth,'' but he is best known on the 4,200-student campus as the morning announcer on the public address system. ''Everyone does call me the 'Voice of Fort Hamilton,' '' said Mr. Constantellis, who is ranked fourth in a senior class of 610 and is headed to N.Y.U. ''I think it's pretty cool.''
 Many corporations have had to shrink or eliminate their giving and matching gift programs because of the recession. Last year, The New York Times Company Foundation announced that along with suspending new grants and the company's matching gift program, it was also making cuts in the scholarship program. 
 In years past, roughly 1,400 students a year applied to the program, and about 20 were chosen to receive four-year scholarships of up to $30,000 at any college. 
 This year, the three colleges participating in the program nominated 41 students, and The Times selected six winners from those nominees.
 ''While we've had to cut the program, we're delighted to still be able to provide some financial support to well-deserving students,'' said Desiree L. Dancy, chief diversity officer and vice president of the scholarship program at The Times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The winners, from left, Shi Giang Ng Tong, Daniel Garcia, Konstantinos Constantellis, Brian Palacios, Sion Choi and Pardeep Kumar. Each will attend one of three colleges: Columbia University, New York University or City College of New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CHARITIES (64%); HOMELESSNESS (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); TRAVEL AGENTS (56%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



802 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: China Balks at Criticism of North Korea

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- Resisting pressure from South Korean and Japanese leaders during two days of talks, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China gave no public hint on Sunday that his government was ready to join in reproaching North Koreaover the sinking of a South Korean warship.
 Instead, in a joint news conference with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea and Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama of Japan, Mr. Wen said that China's top priority was still ensuring stability and avoiding tensions and a possible military clash between the two Koreas. 
 Both Mr. Wen and Mr. Hatoyama offered condolences for the 46 South Korean sailors killed in the March 26 sinking of the ship, the Cheonan, which an international team of investigators has attributed to a North Korean torpedo attack.
 But during their joint appearance before the news media, none of the three leaders blamed North Korea by name -- an indication of subtle yet fundamental differences between China and its two neighbors in responding to North Korea, which remains a close Chinese ally.
 North Korea has strenuously denied accusations it sank the Cheonan, calling them a fiction concocted by South Korea and its main military ally, the United States. The sinking has elevated tension on the Korean peninsula to the worst in many years, and North Korea has said any retaliation over the sinking could lead to war. 
 ''Most urgent is to dispel the impact of the Cheonan incident, gradually ease tension and especially avoid a clash,'' Mr. Wen said on the southern Korean resort island of Jeju, which hosted the summit meeting. ''We must put all our efforts without fail to boost peace and stability in Northeast Asia. Without this, we cannot talk about development, and the achievements we have made with difficulty will evaporate.''
 During the talks, Mr. Lee argued that letting North Korea go unpunished for the Cheonan sinking and its development of nuclear weapons is tantamount to keeping a blind eye to the biggest threat to the very peace and economic and political stability China champions, according to his aides.
 ''In order to make North Korea find a right path, we should not leave this matter half-finished,'' Mr. Lee was quoted as saying by his chief spokesman, Lee Dong-kwan. The North ''must promise not to repeat a military provocation, admit to wrongdoing and take appropriate measures,'' he added.
 ''We do not fear war but don't want war,'' he was further quoted as saying, addressing concerns that escalating tensions between the two Koreas would disrupt the regional economy.
 Reading a joint statement from the three leaders, Mr. Lee said that Japan and China ''attached importance'' to the May 20 report by the South Korean-led international investigative team that blamed North Korea for the sinking.
 After Mr. Wen's bilateral talks with Mr. Lee in Seoul on Friday, Mr. Lee's office quoted Mr. Wen as saying that Beijing ''will not protect anyone'' once it had concluded who was responsible after its own ''impartial judgment.''
 That statement, although not publicly confirmed by Beijing, raised hopes in Seoul that there might be a shift in China's fence-sitting over North Korea.
 China is trying to balance its traditional inclination to shield North Korea against the expectations of South Korea and Japan, its third and fourth largest trading partners, that China will help rein in the North. 
 ''I think China was cautious because it does not want North Korea to lash out,'' Mr. Hatoyama told reporters at a separate briefing after the meeting on Sunday, Reuters reported.
 In Pyongyang, 100,000 North Koreans rallied Sunday to denounce South Korea and the United States for ''fabricating'' the Cheonan sinking to create an excuse to start war, the North's state-run news media reported. 
 Speakers at the rally urged North Koreans to be ''ready for combat.'' When it raises tensions with the outside world, North Korea often mobilizes huge crowds to rally its people around their leader, Kim Jong-il. 
 Mr. Wen faced awkward diplomacy during the summit meeting. The talks had been scheduled before the Cheonan sinking to discuss greater regional cooperation and economic integration. The attack stole the meeting's focus and magnified China's historical comradely kinship with the North.
 On Sunday, however, Mr. Wen gave no public hint of change in China's approach on the North. 
 During bilateral talks on Saturday, Mr. Lee and Mr. Hatoyama agreed that South Korea and Japan would stand united, vowing to work together with the United States to take North Korea to the United Nations Security Council for censure. They separately urged China to act on what they called convincing evidence of the North's involvement in the sinking.
 As a permanent member of the Security Council, China has the power to veto any proposed action against the North. And without the support of China, the North's biggest trading partner and benefactor, any campaign to squeeze the North economically is likely to fail.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Yukio Hatoyama of Japan, Lee Myung-bak of South Korea and Wen Jiabao of China met in Jeju, South Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YONHAP NEWS, VIA BLOOMBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); MILITARY VESSELS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (90%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (89%); YUKIO HATOYAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); JAPAN (95%); CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



803 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Turn Mantra Of G.O.P. on Its Head

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
With the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act, House Democratic leaders opened themselves up to both ends of Republicans' familiar ''tax and spend'' barbs.
 The bill, passed last week, would raise taxes on Wall Street executives and multinational corporations. And it would spend more than $100 billion in the name of creating jobs and extending federal benefits for the jobless.
 To overcome opposition, Democrats were forced to make concessions by substantially trimming spending -- not the higher taxes. 
 That points to a new reality as Republicans seek inroads against President Obama and his party in the midterm elections. If they changed the order of their slogan to reflect its current political throw-weight, Republicans would attack Democrats for ''spend and tax,'' not the other way around.
 ''The spending issue has supplanted taxes in the G.O.P. mantra,'' said Neil Newhouse, a Republican pollster. Democrats acknowledge their vulnerability.
 ''As a metaphor, it is powerful,'' said Mark Mellman, a strategist for Democratic leaders. Amid near double-digit unemployment and trillion-dollar deficits, Mr. Mellman said, Americans link spending with ''long-term economic decline, lack of discipline, wasted money, money spent bailing out Wall Street instead of helping Main Street.''
 The primacy of spending as a hot-button issue may fade if economic recovery continues and if Washington moves aggressively to shrink budget deficits. How much that will help Mr. Obama and his party is another question.
 Cuts and Increases
 In 1980, Ronald Reagan placed tax cuts at the center of his campaign to oust President Jimmy Carter and make conservatism the ascendant political force.
 In 1992, Ross Perot's denunciation of deficits helped Bill Clinton wrest the White House from Republican control.
 By 2000, economic boom times had eliminated the deficit issue and limited the drawing power of tax cuts. For his presidential victories, George W. Bush relied more on appeals to values and national security.
 That spending has taken center stage now is no mystery. First, Mr. Bush guided the budget from surplus to deficit with two tax cuts, new prescription drug benefits under Medicare and increased security spending after Sept. 11, including the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 Then, Washington responded to economic crisis by writing two gargantuan checks. In the fall of 2008, Mr. Bush signed a $700 billion bailout for the financial system. In early 2009, Mr. Obama signed a $787 billion stimulus package in hopes of kick-starting the economy out of recession.
 This year, Mr. Obama added a third mammoth expenditure: a health care overhaul priced at $938 billion over 10 years. 
 Never mind that the Congressional Budget Office says tax increases, spending cuts and cost savings associated with the health bill will actually reduce the deficit.
 Nor does it matter, politically, that the Wall Street bailout will end up costing taxpayers a fraction of that $700 billion. Or that Democrats have revived ''pay-go'' procedures earlier abandoned by Republicans, under which Congress must offset most new entitlement spending or tax cuts with corresponding spending cuts or tax increases.
 Mr. Obama's party is in charge. And the juxtaposition of his activism with the specter of overreach, as dramatized lately by the debt crisis in Greece, has turned spending priorities Americans once valued into the political equivalent of toxic assets.
 Arguing Austerity
 For many voters, noted Stan Greenberg, a Democratic strategist, ''spending is debt -- seen as threatening to the long-term economic future.''
 An argument now under way inside Mr. Obama's economic team will settle how, and how quickly, Democrats answer that vulnerability. Lawrence H. Summers, director of the National Economic Council, insisted last week that the recovery remained too fragile for an immediate turn toward austerity.
 ''I cannot agree with those who suggest that it somehow threatens the future to provide truly temporary, high-bang-for-the-buck jobs and growth measures,'' Mr. Summers said in a speech. ''Rather, assuring as rapid a recovery as possible strengthens our future economy, our future prosperity, with many benefits, including a greater ability to manage our debts.''
 Peter R. Orszag, the White House budget director, favors a more aggressive approach to deficit reduction once a presidential commission reports in December. That could take some of the sting out of Republican attacks on spending.
 Of course, that could also leave Democrats exposed once again on taxes, an issue that has been defused lately by Mr. Obama's pledge to focus on only high-income Americans. Some Democratic economists insist taming long-term deficits will require setting that promise aside.
 For now, Democrats must cope with a shift in attitudes they could not have imagined a few years ago, when they fretted over winning back so-called values voters.
 While struggling to pass new spending for the unemployed, House Democrats last week voted to end the Pentagon's ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy and clear the way for gay men and lesbians to serve openly in the military. That objective proved easier to achieve.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama this month with his economic team: Treasury Secretary Timothy R. Geithner
Peter R. Orszag, White House budget director
Lawrence H. Summers, National Economic Council director
 and Christina D. Romer, Council of Economic Advisers chairwoman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BAILOUTS (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); MEDICARE (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (75%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (65%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (57%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); PETER ORSZAG (54%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



804 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Will Aid Naval Defense Of South Korea

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and DAVID E. SANGER; Choe Sang-hun contributed reporting from Seoul, South Korea.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Surprised by how easily a South Korean warship was sunk by what an international investigation concluded was a North Korean torpedo fired from a midget submarine, senior American officials say they are planning a long-term program to plug major gaps in the South's naval defenses. 
 They said the sinking revealed that years of spending and training had still left the country vulnerable to surprise attacks.
 The discovery of the weaknesses in South Korea caught officials in both countries off guard. As South Korea has rocketed into the ranks of the world's top economies, it has invested billions of dollars to bolster its defenses and to help refine one of the oldest war plans in the Pentagon's library: a joint strategy with the United States to repel and defeat a North Korean invasion. 
 But the shallow waters where the attack occurred are patrolled only by South Korea's navy, and South Korean officials confirmed in interviews that the sinking of the warship, the Cheonan, which killed 46 sailors, revealed a gap that the American military must help address. 
 The United States -- pledged to defend its ally but stretched thin by the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq -- would be drawn into any conflict. But it has been able to reduce its forces on the Korean Peninsula by relying on South Korea's increased military spending. Senior Pentagon officials stress that firepower sent to the region by warplanes and warships would more than compensate for the drop in American troop levels there in the event of war. 
 But the attack was evidence, the officials say, of how North Korea has compensated for the fact that it is so bankrupt that it can no longer train its troops or buy the technology needed to fight a conventional war. So it has instead invested heavily in stealthy, hard-to-detect technologies that can inflict significant damage, even if it could not win a sustained conflict. 
 Building a small arsenal of nuclear weapons is another big element of the Northern strategy -- a double-faceted deterrent allowing it to threaten a nuclear attack or to sell the technology or weapons in order to head off retaliation even for an act of war like sinking South Korean ships.
 In an interview last week, Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that the joint training exercise with South Korea planned just off the country's coast in the next few weeks represented only the ''near-term piece'' of a larger strategy to prevent a recurrence of the kind of shock the South experienced as it watched one of its ships sunk without warning. But the longer-range effort will be finding ways to detect, track and counter the miniature submarines, which he called ''a very difficult technical, tactical problem.'' 
 ''Longer term, it is a skill set that we are going to continue to press on,'' Admiral Mullen said. ''Clearly, we don't want that to happen again. We don't want to give that option to North Korea in the future. Period. We want to take it away.''
 American and South Korean officials declined to describe details of the coming joint exercises, except to say that they would focus on practicing antisubmarine warfare techniques and the interdiction of cargo vessels carrying prohibited nuclear materials and banned weapons. 
 To counter the unexpected ability of midget submarines to take on full warships, the long-term fix will mean greatly expanding South Korea's antisubmarine network to cover vast stretches of water previously thought to be too shallow to warrant monitoring closely -- with sonar and air patrols, for instance. That would include costly investment in new technologies, as well as significant time spent determining new techniques for the South Korean military. 
 North Korea presents an adversary with a complicated mix of strengths and weaknesses, said senior American officers.
 According to a recent strategic assessment by the American military based on the Korean Peninsula, the North has spent its dwindling treasury to build an arsenal able to start armed provocations ''with little or no warning.'' These attacks would be specifically designed for ''affecting economic and political stability in the region'' -- exactly what happened in the attack on the Cheonan, which the South Korean military and experts from five other countries determined was carried out by a North Korean midget submarine firing a powerful torpedo.
 Admiral Mullen and other officials said they believed the Cheonan episode might be just the first of several to come. ''North Korea is predictable in one sense: that it is unpredictable in what it is going to do,'' he said. ''North Korea goes through these cycles. I worry a great deal that this isn't the last thing we are going to see.''
 High-ranking South Korean officials acknowledge that the sinking was a shock.
 ''As the Americans didn't anticipate 9/11, we were not prepared for this attack,'' one South Korean military official said. ''While we were preoccupied with arming our military with high-tech weapons, we have not prepared ourselves against asymmetrical-weapons attack by the North.'' 
 The South Korean military was well aware that the North had submarines -- around 70, according to current estimates. But the focus had been on North Korea's using larger conventional submarines to infiltrate agents or commandos into the South, as it had in the past, not on midget submarines sophisticated enough to sink a major surface warship.
 ''We believe that this is the beginning of North Korea's asymmetrical military provocations employing conventional weapons,'' said the South Korean official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe the military's internal analysis. ''They will use such provocations to ratchet up pressure on the U.S. and South Korea. The Cheonan sinking is an underwater terrorist attack, and this is the beginning of such attacks.''
 Though it is considered unlikely, the threat of a conventional war with North Korea is still an issue, too, officials said.
 The American military's most recent ''strategic digest'' assessing both the strengths of the United States-South Korea alliance and the continuing threat from the North notes that North Korea's military is ''outfitted with aging and unsophisticated equipment.'' 
 Even so, 70 percent of North Korea's ground forces -- part of the fourth-largest armed force in the world -- remain staged within about 60 miles of the demilitarized zone with the South. In that arsenal are 250 long-range artillery systems able to strike the Seoul metropolitan area.
 ''While qualitatively inferior, resource-constrained and incapable of sustained maneuver, North Korea's military forces retain the capability to inflict lethal, catastrophic destruction,'' said the assessment, approved by Gen. Walter L. Sharp, commander of American and United Nations forces in South Korea.
 There are about 28,500 American forces in South Korea today, significantly fewer than before the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. The South Korean military has maintained its armed forces at a consistent number between 600,000 and 700,000, and has steadily modernized based on its economic dynamism. 
 The North has an active-duty military estimated at 1.2 million, with between five million and seven million in the reserves.
 But many are poorly trained, or put to work building housing or seeking out opponents of Kim Jong-il's government. The best trained, best equipped and best paid of them are North Korea's special operations forces, numbering about 80,000 and described by the American military as ''tough, well-trained and profoundly loyal.'' Their mission is to infiltrate the South for intelligence gathering and for ''asymmetric attacks against a range of critical civilian infrastructure and military targets.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thousands packed a square in Pyongyang, North Korea, on Sunday for a rally condemning South Korea and the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KYODO NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Tourists in South Korea near the demilitarized zone. South Korean officials acknowledge the sinking of a warship was a shock. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE JIN-MAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A5) GRAPHS: Quick Strike: While North Korea's military is qualitatively inferior to the South's, it is much larger. Recently, North Korea has strengthened its ability to begin armed attacks with little or no warning. (Source: South Korea's 2008 Defense White Paper) (A5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); MILITARY TRAINING (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



805 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Web Start-Ups Offer Bargains For Users' Data

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
As concern increases in Washington about the amount of private data online, and as big sites like Facebook draw criticism that they collect consumers' information in a stealthy manner, many Web start-ups are pursuing a more reciprocal approach -- saying, in essence: give us your data and get something in return.
 The budgeting Web site Mint.com, for example, displays discount offers from cable companies or banks to users who reveal their personal financial data, including bank and credit card information. The clothing retailer Bluefly could send offers for sunglasses to consumers who disclose that they just bought a swimsuit. And location-based services like Foursquare and Gowalla ask users to volunteer their location in return for rewards like discounts on Pepsi drinks or Starbucks coffee.
 These early efforts are predicated on a shift in the relationship between consumer and company. Influenced by consumers' willingness to trade data online, the sites are pushing to see how much information people will turn over. 
 ''People are a lot more willing to give away a lot of stuff as long as it results in some benefits that they value,'' said Stephen J. Hoch, a marketing professor and director of the Jay H. Baker Retailing Initiative at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School. 
 New companies including WeShop, Aprizi, Blippy and Dopplr are trying to exploit the data that people seem so willing to give up. Some are even allowing shoppers to set what terms they want -- free shipping, half-price discounts, only fair-trade products. They can also list what they are shopping for, like a gray cashmere sweater under $100, for instance, and let the retailers fight it out for the right to make a sale. 
 ''The whole privacy debate has grown up around people using your data without your permission,'' said Antony Lee, chief executive of WeShop. ''If you want to use your data to your benefit, that's for you to do,'' Mr. Lee said. 
 Daniel Sjoberg, a 26-year-old in Manhattan, signed up for Mint as he was completing graduate school in biostatistics last summer. He allowed the site to pull information from his checking account, his credit card and his student loan account.
 He meant to use Mint as a budgeting tool, but soon began browsing through offers Mint listed under ''ways to save.'' He signed up for a Charles Schwab checking account when he learned it would refund his A.T.M. fees, and an Ally savings account based on the interest rate. 
 Sponsors are allowed to include their logo and a link to their site, and they pay a referral fee if a consumer signs up, but offers from nonsponsors are listed, too. Mr. Sjoberg said he particularly liked how transparent Mint seemed to be.
 ''They put that very clearly for you to see -- 'We think Ally is good for you, and by the way, they're endorsing us,' '' Mr. Sjoberg said. ''It's refreshing to have it out in the open who's giving them money and who's not giving them money.'' 
 Aaron Patzer, who founded Mint in 2007 (the company was acquired by Intuit in 2009 for $170 million), believed that users would give the site private information in return for allowing Mint to analyze their finances to alert them when they had exceeded their budget, or to send them offers from cable companies or banks. 
 ''Most venture capitalists, when I was starting this company, said that no one would trust a start-up with their financial information,'' said Mr. Patzer, now vice president and general manager of Intuit's personal finance group. ''In essence, we would data-mine your own data in order to help you.'' 
 While data on Mint is kept private -- there is no way to share financial details with other users -- WeShop has built a system that allows people to spread information about their shopping habits. After a consumer gives WeShop access to an e-mail account, the system scans e-mail headers to find electronic receipts, then extracts what someone bought and what price they paid. 
 All that information is posted to the WeShop site as a kind of in-depth shopping history. A consumer can keep it private, or share some or all purchase data with other people in WeShop networks (using a nickname). That lets users compare prices and post messages about what Lego sets or prom dresses they are considering.
 WeShop will soon give retailers access to the data and allow them to send specific offers. A retailer like Bluefly, which says it plans to test WeShop, could search for people who have bought something prom-related, and send those users e-mail messages with special offers on formal dresses. Retailers pay WeShop a percentage of the sale price when a consumer buys a product. 
 ''Everyone's kind of working on different angles of how we give the consumer more ways to target what they want, to ask for what they want, and get it,'' said Bradford Matson, chief marketing officer of Bluefly.com. ''This notion of how people shop is changing very quickly.''
 Bun Lai, a chef at Miya's Sushi in New Haven, said he liked the way WeShop put him in charge. ''I wasn't completely comfortable right from the start -- it's after I understood that you actually have control of the information that you're going to allow the network to have, then I realized it was actually something more empowering,'' he said.
 But the upfront dealmaking does not quiet all the privacy concerns.
 ''The big problem is that these business models are not very stable. Companies set out privacy policies, consumers disclose data, and then the action begins,'' Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the advocacy group Electronic Privacy Information Center, said in an e-mail message. ''The business model changes. The companies simply want the data, and the consumer benefit disappears.''
 But Giff Constable, co-founder of Aprizi, a shopping start-up that asks users to enter information about preferences, then selects products for them from throughout the Web, said a changing business model was unlikely, and even if it happened, the consumer could easily disengage.
 ''It's opt-in, and it's understood from the beginning what's going on here,'' Mr. Constable said. ''That level of control is explicit: you can plug in and you can remove the information that's there.
 ''It's a very simple bargain -- it's, 'You share with me, and I am going to make your life better.' It's not about privacy versus lack of privacy -- it really does come down to control and giving people choice.''
 That, and a perceived benefit. ''I wasn't really concerned about giving them information,'' said Mr. Sjoberg, the Mint user. ''I was only considering the things I was getting out of it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aaron Patzer, Mint's founder, in 2008. He said his idea was simple: ''We would data-mine your own data in order to help you.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 WeShop.com, still in development, has built a system that allows people to spread information about their shopping habits. (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INTERNET PRIVACY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (76%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CABLE INDUSTRY (71%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (70%); STUDENT LOANS (70%); SALES & SELLING (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%); SCHW (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: AARON PATZER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



806 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include the ISM manufacturing index for May and construction spending for April (Tuesday); pending home sales for April (Wednesday); ADP employment for May, revised first-quarter productivity, weekly jobless claims, the ISM service index for May, and factory orders for April (Thursday); unemployment figures for May (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting include Hovnanian Enterprises (Wednesday).
 IN THE UNITED STATES Automakers report United States sales for May, and Warren E. Buffett, below, is scheduled to testify in New York before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission about the role of credit-rating agencies in the crisis (Wednesday); retailers will report their same-store sales for May (Thursday); the American Society of Clinical Oncology's annual meeting will begin in Chicago, and Celgene, Biogen Idec and other drug makers will detail study results (Friday).
 OVERSEAS Finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group of 20 will meet in South Korea (Friday and Saturday). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); SAME STORE SALES (88%); RETAIL SALES (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (88%); RETAILERS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (85%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); ONCOLOGY (67%); CREDIT BUREAUS (53%)

COMPANY: BIOGEN IDEC INC (83%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CLINICAL ONCOLOGY (56%)

TICKER: BIIB (NASDAQ) (83%); HOV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (83%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



807 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE NEW POOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2577 words

HEADLINE: Decades of Gains Vanish for Blacks in Memphis

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
MEMPHIS -- For two decades, Tyrone Banks was one of many African-Americans who saw his economic prospects brightening in this Mississippi River city.
 A single father, he worked for FedEx and also as a custodian, built a handsome brick home, had a retirement account and put his eldest daughter through college.
 Then the Great Recession rolled in like a fog bank. He refinanced his mortgage at a rate that adjusted sharply upward, and afterward he lost one of his jobs. Now Mr. Banks faces bankruptcy and foreclosure.
 ''I'm going to tell you the deal, plain-spoken: I'm a black man from the projects and I clean toilets and mop up for a living,'' said Mr. Banks, a trim man who looks at least a decade younger than his 50 years. ''I'm proud of what I've accomplished. But my whole life is backfiring.'' 
 Not so long ago, Memphis, a city where a majority of the residents are black, was a symbol of a South where racial history no longer tightly constrained the choices of a rising black working and middle class. Now this city epitomizes something more grim: How rising unemployment and growing foreclosures in the recession have combined to destroy black wealth and income and erase two decades of slow progress.
 The median income of black homeowners in Memphis rose steadily until five or six years ago. Now it has receded to a level below that of 1990 -- and roughly half that of white Memphis homeowners, according to an analysis conducted by Queens College Sociology Department for The New York Times.
 Black middle-class neighborhoods are hollowed out, with prices plummeting and homes standing vacant in places like Orange Mound, Whitehaven and Cordova. As job losses mount -- black unemployment here, mirroring national trends, has risen to 16.9 percent from 9 percent two years ago; it stands at 5.3 percent for whites -- many blacks speak of draining savings and retirement accounts in an effort to hold onto their homes. The overall local foreclosure rate is roughly twice the national average.
 The repercussions will be long-lasting, in Memphis and nationwide. The most acute economic divide in America remains the steadily widening gap between the wealth of black and white families, according to a recent study by the Institute on Assets and Social Policy at Brandeis University. For every dollar of wealth owned by a white family, a black or Latino family owns just 16 cents, according to a recent Federal Reserve study.
 The Economic Policy Institute's forthcoming ''The State of Working America'' analyzed the recession-driven drop in wealth. As of December 2009, median white wealth dipped 34 percent, to $94,600; median black wealth dropped 77 percent, to $2,100. So the chasm widens, and Memphis is left to deal with the consequences.
 ''This cancer is metastasizing into an economic crisis for the city,'' said Mayor A. C. Wharton Jr. in his riverfront office. ''It's done more to set us back than anything since the beginning of the civil rights movement.''
 The mayor and former bank loan officers point a finger of blame at large national banks -- in particular, Wells Fargo. During the last decade, they say, these banks singled out blacks in Memphis to sell them risky high-cost mortgages and consumer loans.
 The City of Memphis and Shelby County sued Wells Fargo late last year, asserting that the bank's foreclosure rate in predominantly black neighborhoods was nearly seven times that of the foreclosure rate in predominantly white neighborhoods. Other banks, including Citibank and Countrywide, foreclosed in more equal measure.
 In a recent regulatory filing, Wells Fargo hinted that its legal troubles could multiply. ''Certain government entities are conducting investigations into the mortgage lending practices of various Wells Fargo affiliated entities, including whether borrowers were steered to more costly mortgage products,'' the bank stated.
 Wells Fargo officials are not backing down in the face of the legal attacks. They say the bank made more prime loans and has foreclosed on fewer homes than most banks, and that the worst offenders -- those banks that handed out bushels of no-money-down, negative-amortization loans -- have gone out of business.
 ''The mistake Memphis officials made is that they picked the lender who was doing the most lending as opposed to the lender who was doing the worst lending,'' said Brad Blackwell, executive vice president for Wells Fargo Home Mortgage.
 Not every recessionary ill can be heaped upon banks. Some black homeowners contracted the buy-a-big-home fever that infected many Americans and took out ill-advised loans. And unemployment has pitched even homeowners who hold conventional mortgages into foreclosure.
 Federal and state officials say that high-cost mortgages leave hard-pressed homeowners especially vulnerable and that statistical patterns are inescapable.
 ''The more segregated a community of color is, the more likely it is that homeowners will face foreclosure because the lenders who peddled the most toxic loans targeted those communities,'' Thomas E. Perez, the assistant attorney general in charge of the Justice Department's civil rights division, told a Congressional committee.
 The reversal of economic fortune in Memphis is particularly grievous for a black professional class that has taken root here, a group that includes Mr. Wharton, a lawyer who became mayor in 2009. Demographers forecast that Memphis will soon become the nation's first majority black metropolitan region.
 That prospect, noted William Mitchell, a black real estate agent, once augured for a fine future.
 ''Our home values were up, income up,'' he said. He pauses, his frustration palpable. ''What we see today, it's a new world. And not a good one.''
 Porch View
 ''You don't want to walk up there! That's the wild, wild west,'' a neighbor shouts. ''Nothing on that block but foreclosed homes and squatters.''
 To roam Soulsville, a neighborhood south of downtown Memphis, is to find a place where bungalows and brick homes stand vacant amid azaleas and dogwoods, where roofs are swaybacked and thieves punch holes through walls to strip the copper piping. The weekly newspaper is swollen with foreclosure notices.
 Here and there, homes are burned by arsonists.
 Yet just a few years back, Howard Smith felt like a rich man. A 56-year-old African-American engineer with a gray-flecked beard, butter-brown corduroys and red sneakers, he sits with two neighbors on a porch on Richmond Avenue and talks of his miniature real estate empire: He owned a home on this block, another in nearby Whitehaven and another farther out. His job paid well; a pleasant retirement beckoned.
 Then he was laid off. He has sent out 60 applications, obtained a dozen interviews and received no calls back. A bank foreclosed on his biggest house. He will be lucky to get $30,000 for his house here, which was assessed at $80,000 two years ago.
 ''It all disappeared overnight,'' he says.
 ''Mmm-mm, yes sir, overnight,'' says his neighbor, Gwen Ward. In her 50s, she, too, was laid off, from her supervisory job of 15 years, and she moved in with her elderly mother. ''It seemed we were headed up and then'' -- she snaps her fingers -- ''it all went away.''
 Mr. Smith nods. ''The banks and Wall Street have taken the middle class and shredded us,'' he says.
 For the greater part of the last century, racial discrimination crippled black efforts to buy homes and accumulate wealth. During the post-World War II boom years, banks and real estate agents steered blacks to segregated neighborhoods, where home appreciation lagged far behind that of white neighborhoods.
 Blacks only recently began to close the home ownership gap with whites, and thus accumulate wealth -- progress that now is being erased. In practical terms, this means black families have less money to pay for college tuition, invest in businesses or sustain them through hard times.
 ''We're wiping out whatever wealth blacks have accumulated -- it assures racial economic inequality for the next generation,'' said Thomas M. Shapiro, director of the Institute on Assets and Social Policy at Brandeis University.
 The African-American renaissance in Memphis was halting. Residential housing patterns remain deeply segregated. While big employers -- FedEx and AutoZone -- have headquarters here, wage growth is not robust. African-American employment is often serial rather than continuous, and many people lack retirement and health plans.
 But the recession presents a crisis of a different magnitude.
 Mayor Wharton walks across his office to a picture window and stares at a shimmering Mississippi River. He describes a recent drive through ailing neighborhoods. It is akin, he says, to being a doctor ''looking for pulse rates in his patients and finding them near death.''
 He adds: ''I remember riding my bike as a kid through thriving neighborhoods. Now it's like someone bombed my city.''
 Banking on Nothing
 Camille Thomas, a 40-year-old African-American, loved working for Wells Fargo. ''I felt like I could help people,'' she recalled over coffee.
 As the subprime market heated up, she said, the bank pressure to move more loans -- for autos, for furniture, for houses -- edged into mania. ''It was all about selling your units and getting your bonus,'' she said.
 Ms. Thomas and three other Wells Fargo employees have given affidavits for the city's lawsuit against the bank, and their statements about bank practices reinforce one another.
 ''Your manager would say, 'Let me see your cold-call list. I want you to concentrate on these ZIP codes,' and you knew those were African-American neighborhoods,'' she recalled. ''We were told, 'Oh, they aren't so savvy.' ''
 She described tricks of the trade, several of dubious legality. She said supervisors had told employees to white out incomes on loan applications and substitute higher numbers. Agents went ''fishing'' for customers, mailing live checks to leads. When a homeowner deposited the check, it became a high-interest loan, with a rate of 20 to 29 percent. Then bank agents tried to talk the customer into refinancing, using the house as collateral.
 Several state and city regulators have placed Wells Fargo Bank in their cross hairs, and their lawsuits include similar accusations. In Illinois, the state attorney general has accused the bank of marketing high-cost loans to blacks and Latinos while selling lower-cost loans to white borrowers. John P. Relman, the Washington, D.C., lawyer handling the Memphis case, has sued Wells Fargo on behalf of the City of Baltimore, asserting that the bank systematically exploited black borrowers.
 A federal judge in Baltimore dismissed that lawsuit, saying it had made overly broad claims about the damage done by Wells Fargo. City lawyers have refiled papers.
 ''I don't think it's going too far to say that banks are at the core of the disaster here,'' said Phyllis G. Betts, director of the Center for Community Building and Neighborhood Action at the University of Memphis, which has closely examined bank lending records.
 Former employees say Wells Fargo loan officers marketed the most expensive loans to black applicants, even when they should have qualified for prime loans. This practice is known as reverse redlining.
 Webb A. Brewer, a Memphis lawyer, recalls poring through piles of loan papers and coming across name after name of blacks with subprime mortgages. ''This is money out of their pockets lining the purses of the banks,'' he said.
 For a $150,000 mortgage, a difference of three percentage points -- the typical spread between a conventional and subprime loan -- tacks on $90,000 in interest payments over its 30-year life.
 Wells Fargo officials say they rejected the worst subprime products, and they portray their former employees as disgruntled rogues who subverted bank policies.
 ''They acknowledged that they knowingly worked to defeat our fair lending policies and controls,'' said Mr. Blackwell, the bank executive.
 Bank officials attribute the surge in black foreclosures in Memphis to the recession. They say that the average credit score in black Census tracts is 108 points lower than in white tracts.
 ''People who have less are more vulnerable during downturns,'' said Andrew L. Sandler of Buckley Sandler, a law firm representing Wells Fargo.
 Mr. Relman, the lawyer representing Memphis, is unconvinced. ''If a bad economy and poor credit explains it, you'd expect to see other banks with the same ratio of foreclosures in the black community,'' he said. ''But you don't. Wells is the outlier.''
 Whatever the responsibility, individual or corporate, the detritus is plain to see. Within a two-block radius of that porch in Soulsville, Wells Fargo holds mortgages on nearly a dozen foreclosures. That trail of pain extends right out to the suburbs.
 Begging to Stay
 To turn into Tyrone Banks's subdivision in Hickory Ridge is to find his dream in seeming bloom. Stone lions guard his door, the bushes are trimmed and a freshly waxed sport utility vehicle sits in his driveway.
 For years, Mr. Banks was assiduous about paying down his debt: he stayed two months ahead on his mortgage, and he helped pay off his mother's mortgage.
 Two years ago, his doorbell rang, and two men from Wells Fargo offered to consolidate his consumer loans into a low-cost mortgage.
 ''I thought, 'This is great! ' '' Mr. Banks says. ''When you have four kids, college expenses, you look for any savings.''
 What those men did not tell Mr. Banks, he says (and Ms. Thomas, who studied his case, confirms), is that his new mortgage had an adjustable rate. When it reset last year, his payment jumped to $1,700 from $1,200.
 Months later, he ruptured his Achilles tendon playing basketball, hindering his work as a janitor. And he lost his job at FedEx. Now foreclosure looms.
 He is by nature an optimistic man; his smile is rueful.
 ''Man, I should I have stayed 'old school' with my finances,'' he said. ''I sat down my youngest son on the couch and I told him, 'These are rough times.' ''
 Many neighbors are in similar straits. Foreclosure notices flutter like flags on the doors of two nearby homes, and the lawns there are overgrown and mud fills the gutters.
 Wells Fargo says it has modified three mortgages for every foreclosure nationwide -- although bank officials declined to provide the data for Memphis. A study by the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project and six nonprofit groups found that the nation's four largest banks, Wells Fargo, Bank of America, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, had cut their prime mortgage refinancing 33 percent in predominantly minority communities, even as prime refinancing in white neighborhoods rose 32 percent from 2006 to 2008.
 For Mr. Banks, it is as if he found the door wide open on his way into debt but closed as he tries to get out.
 ''Some days it feels like everyone I know in Memphis is in trouble,'' Mr. Banks says. ''We're all just begging to stay in our homes, basically.''
 The New Poor:: Articles in this series are examining the struggle to recover from the widespread strains of the recession. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 2, 2010, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about the rising gap in unemployment between whites and blacks rendered incorrectly a neighborhood in Memphis. It is Whitehaven, not White Haven.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'I remember riding my bike as a kid through thriving neighborhoods. Now it's like someone bombed my city.' MAYOR A. C. WHARTON JR. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LANCE MURPHEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
FACING FORECLOSURE: Tyrone Banks in his home in Memphis. He is in danger of losing it after the payments on his mortgage rose and he lost his job at FedEx.
A FADING NEIGHBORHOOD: In Soulsville, houses stand vacant, roofs sag and thieves strip homes of copper piping. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) CHARTS: The gap between black and white unemployment had been shrinking for decades. But the latest recession has pushed it back to levels of the early '90s. (A1)
 A Shrinking Gap, Undone The gap between black and white unemployment had been shrinking for decades. The smallest difference was reached in August 2007, when the black unemployment rate was only 3.5 percentage points above the white rate. But only months later, the latest recession began to push it back to levels of the early 1990s.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); RECESSION (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); TRENDS (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); SOCIOLOGY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010



808 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: The Pain Caucus

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
What's the greatest threat to our still-fragile economic recovery? Dangers abound, of course. But what I currently find most ominous is the spread of a destructive idea: the view that now, less than a year into a weak recovery from the worst slump since World War II, is the time for policy makers to stop helping the jobless and start inflicting pain. 
 When the financial crisis first struck, most of the world's policy makers responded appropriately, cutting interest rates and allowing deficits to rise. And by doing the right thing, by applying the lessons learned from the 1930s, they managed to limit the damage: It was terrible, but it wasn't a second Great Depression. 
 Now, however, demands that governments switch from supporting their economies to punishing them have been proliferating in op-eds, speeches and reports from international organizations. Indeed, the idea that what depressed economies really need is even more suffering seems to be the new conventional wisdom, which John Kenneth Galbraith famously defined as ''the ideas which are esteemed at any time for their acceptability.'' 
 The extent to which inflicting economic pain has become the accepted thing was driven home to me by the latest report on the economic outlook from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, an influential Paris-based think tank supported by the governments of the world's advanced economies. The O.E.C.D. is a deeply cautious organization; what it says at any given time virtually defines that moment's conventional wisdom. And what the O.E.C.D. is saying right now is that policy makers should stop promoting economic recovery and instead begin raising interest rates and slashing spending.
 What's particularly remarkable about this recommendation is that it seems disconnected not only from the real needs of the world economy, but from the organization's own economic projections.
 Thus, the O.E.C.D. declares that interest rates in the United States and other nations should rise sharply over the next year and a half, so as to head off inflation. Yet inflation is low and declining, and the O.E.C.D.'s own forecasts show no hint of an inflationary threat. So why raise rates?
 The answer, as best I can make it out, is that the organization believes that we must worry about the chance that markets might start expecting inflation, even though they shouldn't and currently don't: We must guard against ''the possibility that longer-term inflation expectations could become unanchored in the O.E.C.D. economies, contrary to what is assumed in the central projection.''
 A similar argument is used to justify fiscal austerity. Both textbook economics and experience say that slashing spending when you're still suffering from high unemployment is a really bad idea -- not only does it deepen the slump, but it does little to improve the budget outlook, because much of what governments save by spending less they lose as a weaker economy depresses tax receipts. And the O.E.C.D. predicts that high unemployment will persist for years. Nonetheless, the organization demands both that governments cancel any further plans for economic stimulus and that they begin ''fiscal consolidation'' next year.
 Why do this? Again, to give markets something they shouldn't want and currently don't. Right now, investors don't seem at all worried about the solvency of the U.S. government; the interest rates on federal bonds are near historic lows. And even if markets were worried about U.S. fiscal prospects, spending cuts in the face of a depressed economy would do little to improve those prospects. But cut we must, says the O.E.C.D., because inadequate consolidation efforts ''would risk adverse reactions in financial markets.''
 The best summary I've seen of all this comes from Martin Wolf of The Financial Times, who describes the new conventional wisdom as being that ''giving the markets what we think they may want in future -- even though they show little sign of insisting on it now -- should be the ruling idea in policy.''
 Put that way, it sounds crazy. And it is. Yet it's a view that's spreading. And it's already having ugly consequences. Last week conservative members of the House, invoking the new deficit fears, scaled back a bill extending aid to the long-term unemployed -- and the Senate left town without acting on even the inadequate measures that remained. As a result, many American families are about to lose unemployment benefits, health insurance, or both -- and as these families are forced to slash spending, they will endanger the jobs of many more.
 And that's just the beginning. More and more, conventional wisdom says that the responsible thing is to make the unemployed suffer. And while the benefits from inflicting pain are an illusion, the pain itself will be all too real. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); WORLD WAR II (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



809 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Some Say European Central Bank May Be Missing Deflation Threat

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- If the European Central Bank has one monetary dragon it considers essential to slay, it is inflation. 
 Keeping inflation under control is the central bank's primary legal responsibility, and as Europe struggles to overcome economic problems caused by the sovereign debt crisis, inflation has remained the bank's primary focus.
But some economists say it has become a driving obsession that has blinded the bank to a potentially bigger threat to Europe: deflation. 
 The central bank's doubters grew louder after it made a big show of taking measures to cancel out the supposed inflationary impact of the government bond purchases it began on May 10 to help keep Greece and several other euro zone countries from defaulting on their debts. 
 ''It's nuts: how can they be concerned about the inflationary impact of this?'' said Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist of High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y. ''If I were the head of the E.C.B., I would be printing money to avert the decline in the money supply.'' 
 Many economists regard deflation as more dangerous than inflation, because it prompts consumers to delay purchases as they wait for lower prices, creating a downward spiral of lower demand and production. Deflation is also bad for debtors like Greece, because they may have to pay back money that would be worth more than it was when they borrowed it. 
 Economists like Mr. Weinberg -- and a few policy makers as well -- are beginning to worry that a danger of deflation in Europe, similar to the one that strangled Japanese growth for most of the 1990s, is a bigger threat than inflation. 
 Prices fell in Ireland in April, while inflation was below 1 percent in five other euro zone countries. The problem also extends outside the euro zone.
 ''We all share some risks and problems in common with Japan circa 1995,'' Adam S. Posen, a member of the Bank of England's monetary policy committee, told an audience at the London School of Economics on May 2.
 The United States is also at risk, Mr. Posen said, though he rated the chances of deflation there as low. But just as Japan did in the 1990s, the European Central Bank and the United States Federal Reserve have cut interest rates close to zero while pumping huge amounts of credit into their economies. That means the two central banks would have limited policy tools left with which to combat a collapse in prices and demand.
 The downward pressure on prices has its roots in the economic decline that followed the 2008 financial crisis, but Europe's sovereign debt problems are likely to add extra impetus. Governments, including those of Spain and Germany, are sharply reducing spending to lower their deficits, which will inevitably curb consumer demand and employment, hindering growth. 
 Inflation in the euro zone -- the 16 countries that use the euro -- rose slightly in April, to an annual rate of 1.5 percent, from 1.4 percent in March. Declines in categories like recreation and culture, communications and vacation tour packages blunted the impact of higher transportation costs. And so-called core inflation -- which excludes energy prices and which most economists consider a better measure for policy-making purposes -- declined to 0.7 percent in April from 0.8 percent in March. By either measure, the overall rate was still well below the central bank's target of about 2 percent.
 The real challenge for policy makers will occur in the coming months and years as Spain, Greece and Portugal struggle to regain their competitiveness on international markets. Without their own currencies to devalue, they have little choice but to cut wages and keep them well below those in countries like Germany and France. Pay cuts and lower government spending will put downward pressure on prices.
 Spanish core inflation already turned negative in April.
 A mild decline in prices in a few euro zone countries can be managed, economists say, but it will add to the risks of deflation. And the central bank will face more difficulty than usual in devising a monetary policy that fits both the ailing countries and the faster-growing economies like Germany and France.
 ''The E.C.B. has a careful balancing act to do,'' said Dennis Snower, president of the Kiel Institute for the World Economy in Germany.
 The central bank has remained firm in its focus on containing inflation. Jean-Claude Trichet, the bank's president, has said he considers inflation a tax on the poor. And the bank's charter obliges it to serve foremost as guardian of price stability. 
 As recently as Friday, Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, a member of the bank's executive board, defended the wisdom of the mandate. In a speech in Rabat, Morocco, he said permitting inflation to rise to make it easier for European nations to repay their debts, as some have urged, would backfire. 
 The resulting decline in the value of government bonds would inflict ''major losses on the banks and financial institutions which have been heavily investing in these markets, potentially undermining the recovery,'' he said.
 Nevertheless, Mr. Trichet has been under fire, especially from critics in Germany, ever since the central bank began the unprecedented bond purchases to halt a sell-off of Greek, Portuguese and Spanish government debt.
 By buying government bonds on the open market, and being coy about how much it was spending, the bank was able to reduce the high premiums investors were demanding for debt from the weakest countries. A continuation of the market rout would have raised the interest rates that Spain and other countries had to pay to sell new bonds, aggravating their already grave fiscal problems.
 The problem was that, to buy the bonds, the bank had to expand the assets it held on its books. So to prove that it had not stooped to printing money, the bank promised to offset the bond purchases, which totaled 26.5 billion euros ($32.6 billion as of May 24, the most recent data available), by taking in a like amount in short-term deposits from banks. In effect, it siphoned off as much liquidity as it had added.
 The bond purchases were only the latest of a series of extraordinary moves that Mr. Trichet has pursued to stabilize the European banking system. Since the beginning of the financial crisis, the central bank has been essentially keeping banks afloat by providing almost unlimited loans at 1 percent interest.
 Mr. Trichet is eager to squash any doubts that such moves represent a shift in the bank's focus on inflation, said Mr. Snower of the Kiel Institute. ''The E.C.B. is showing very clearly that its objectives have not changed.'' 
 Other economists say that scale of the bond purchases would not increase the money supply enough to pose an inflation risk. And the money supply is falling because of a decline in bank lending.
 In addition, factories are operating below capacity and euro zone unemployment is at 10 percent. Extra money in the system would not create scarcities of goods or labor that could drive up prices, Mr. Weinberg of High Frequency Economics said.
 ''You don't have to pay any more to get those workers to come out of unemployment,'' Mr. Weinberg said.
 The recent decline of the euro against the dollar could create some inflation. Oil and other commodities are priced in dollars and could become more expensive in euros.
 Still, few economists see prices rising. ''There is no reason to fear high inflation for the time being,'' Simon Junker, a Commerzbank analyst, said in a note.
 Much of Mr. Trichet's anti-inflation stance seems aimed at mollifying Germany's anxiety over the bank's bond purchases. 
 After the purchases, Mr. Trichet gave interviews to three leading German publications, an unusually high number in such a short period. In each case, he tried to reassure Germans on inflation and convince them that the euro is as solid as the German mark that they reluctantly gave up 11 years ago. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Claude Trichet (PHOTOGRAPH BY THIERRY CHARLIER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BONDS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF ENGLAND (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (88%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



810 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes the regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills on Thursday and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.16 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.22 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.14 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: 
 TUESDAY
 Harford County, Md., $193.6 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Bowling Green, Ohio, $80.2 million of student housing revenue bonds. Morgan Keegan.
 California Health Facilities Financing Authority, $315.4 million of refinancing revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Delaware Transportation Authority, $125 million of grant anticipation bonds. Bank of America.
 Maryland Health and Higher Education Facilities Authority, $152.1 million of revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 Miami-Dade County School Board, $125 million of qualified school construction bonds. Bank of America.
 Montgomery County Industrial Development Authority, Pa., $313.8 million of F.H.A. insured mortgage revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 Nashville and Davidson County, Tenn., $575 million of general obligation bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 New Hampshire Health and Education Facilities Authority, $75 million of revenue bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $216 million of Montclair University student housing bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
 Pima County, Ariz., $165 million of sewer system revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
 University of California, $108.7 million of general revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Wyoming Community Development Authority, $59 million of housing revenue bonds. Bank of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (96%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (74%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); SCHOOL BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (51%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (66%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (54%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (LSE) (83%); 8648 (TSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



811 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE NEW POOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2536 words

HEADLINE: Decades of Gains Vanish for Blacks in Memphis

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
MEMPHIS -- For two decades, Tyrone Banks was one of many African-Americans who saw his economic prospects brightening in this Mississippi River city. 
 A single father, he worked for FedEx and also as a custodian, built a handsome brick home, had a retirement account and put his eldest daughter through college. 
 Then the Great Recession rolled in like a fog bank. He refinanced his mortgage at a rate that adjusted sharply upward, and afterward he lost one of his jobs. Now Mr. Banks faces bankruptcy and foreclosure.
 ''I'm going to tell you the deal, plain-spoken: I'm a black man from the projects and I clean toilets and mop up for a living,'' said Mr. Banks, a trim man who looks at least a decade younger than his 50 years. ''I'm proud of what I've accomplished. But my whole life is backfiring.'' 
 Not so long ago, Memphis, a city where a majority of the residents are black, was a symbol of a South where racial history no longer tightly constrained the choices of a rising black working and middle class. Now this city epitomizes something more grim: How rising unemployment and growing foreclosures in the recession have combined to destroy black wealth and income and erase two decades of slow progress.
 The median income of black homeowners in Memphis rose steadily until five or six years ago. Now it has receded to a level below that of 1990 -- and roughly half that of white Memphis homeowners, according to an analysis conducted by Queens College Sociology Department for The New York Times. 
 Black middle-class neighborhoods are hollowed out, with prices plummeting and homes standing vacant in places like Orange Mound, White Haven and Cordova. As job losses mount -- black unemployment here, mirroring national trends, has risen to 16.9 percent from 9 percent two years ago; it stands at 5.3 percent for whites -- many blacks speak of draining savings and retirement accounts in an effort to hold onto their homes. The overall local foreclosure rate is roughly twice the national average.
 The repercussions will be long-lasting, in Memphis and nationwide. The most acute economic divide in America remains the steadily widening gap between the wealth of black and white families, according to a recent study by the Institute on Assets and Social Policy at Brandeis University. For every dollar of wealth owned by a white family, a black or Latino family owns just 16 cents, according to a recent Federal Reserve study. 
 The Economic Policy Institute's forthcoming ''The State of Working America'' analyzed the recession-driven drop in wealth. As of December 2009, median white wealth dipped 34 percent, to $94,600; median black wealth dropped 77 percent, to $2,100. So the chasm widens, and Memphis is left to deal with the consequences.
 ''This cancer is metastasizing into an economic crisis for the city,'' said Mayor A. C. Wharton Jr. in his riverfront office. ''It's done more to set us back than anything since the beginning of the civil rights movement.'' 
 The mayor and former bank loan officers point a finger of blame at large national banks -- in particular, Wells Fargo. During the last decade, they say, these banks singled out blacks in Memphis to sell them risky high-cost mortgages and consumer loans. 
 The City of Memphis and Shelby County sued Wells Fargo late last year, asserting that the bank's foreclosure rate in predominantly black neighborhoods was nearly seven times that of the foreclosure rate in predominantly white neighborhoods. Other banks, including Citibank and Countrywide, foreclosed in more equal measure. 
 In a recent regulatory filing, Wells Fargo hinted that its legal troubles could multiply. ''Certain government entities are conducting investigations into the mortgage lending practices of various Wells Fargo affiliated entities, including whether borrowers were steered to more costly mortgage products,'' the bank stated.
 Wells Fargo officials are not backing down in the face of the legal attacks. They say the bank made more prime loans and has foreclosed on fewer homes than most banks, and that the worst offenders -- those banks that handed out bushels of no-money-down, negative-amortization loans -- have gone out of business. 
 ''The mistake Memphis officials made is that they picked the lender who was doing the most lending as opposed to the lender who was doing the worst lending,'' said Brad Blackwell, executive vice president for Wells Fargo Home Mortgage.
 Not every recessionary ill can be heaped upon banks. Some black homeowners contracted the buy-a-big-home fever that infected many Americans and took out ill-advised loans. And unemployment has pitched even homeowners who hold conventional mortgages into foreclosure.
 Federal and state officials say that high-cost mortgages leave hard-pressed homeowners especially vulnerable and that statistical patterns are inescapable. 
 ''The more segregated a community of color is, the more likely it is that homeowners will face foreclosure because the lenders who peddled the most toxic loans targeted those communities,'' Thomas E. Perez, the assistant attorney general in charge of the Justice Department's civil rights division, told a Congressional committee. 
 The reversal of economic fortune in Memphis is particularly grievous for a black professional class that has taken root here, a group that includes Mr. Wharton, a lawyer who became mayor in 2009. Demographers forecast that Memphis will soon become the nation's first majority black metropolitan region.
 That prospect, noted William Mitchell, a black real estate agent, once augured for a fine future. 
 ''Our home values were up, income up,'' he said. He pauses, his frustration palpable. ''What we see today, it's a new world. And not a good one.''
 Porch View
 ''You don't want to walk up there! That's the wild, wild west,'' a neighbor shouts. ''Nothing on that block but foreclosed homes and squatters.''
 To roam Soulsville, a neighborhood south of downtown Memphis, is to find a place where bungalows and brick homes stand vacant amid azaleas and dogwoods, where roofs are swaybacked and thieves punch holes through walls to strip the copper piping. The weekly newspaper is swollen with foreclosure notices. 
 Here and there, homes are burned by arsonists. 
 Yet just a few years back, Howard Smith felt like a rich man. A 56-year-old African-American engineer with a gray-flecked beard, butter-brown corduroys and red sneakers, he sits with two neighbors on a porch on Richmond Avenue and talks of his miniature real estate empire: He owned a home on this block, another in nearby White Haven and another farther out. His job paid well; a pleasant retirement beckoned. 
 Then he was laid off. He has sent out 60 applications, obtained a dozen interviews and received no calls back. A bank foreclosed on his biggest house. He will be lucky to get $30,000 for his house here, which was assessed at $80,000 two years ago. 
 ''It all disappeared overnight,'' he says.
 ''Mmm-mm, yes sir, overnight,'' says his neighbor, Gwen Ward. In her 50s, she, too, was laid off, from her supervisory job of 15 years, and she moved in with her elderly mother. ''It seemed we were headed up and then'' -- she snaps her fingers -- ''it all went away.''
 Mr. Smith nods. ''The banks and Wall Street have taken the middle class and shredded us,'' he says. 
 For the greater part of the last century, racial discrimination crippled black efforts to buy homes and accumulate wealth. During the post-World War II boom years, banks and real estate agents steered blacks to segregated neighborhoods, where home appreciation lagged far behind that of white neighborhoods.
 Blacks only recently began to close the home ownership gap with whites, and thus accumulate wealth -- progress that now is being erased. In practical terms, this means black families have less money to pay for college tuition, invest in businesses or sustain them through hard times.
 ''We're wiping out whatever wealth blacks have accumulated -- it assures racial economic inequality for the next generation,'' said Thomas M. Shapiro, director of the Institute on Assets and Social Policy at Brandeis University. 
 The African-American renaissance in Memphis was halting. Residential housing patterns remain deeply segregated. While big employers -- FedEx and AutoZone -- have headquarters here, wage growth is not robust. African-American employment is often serial rather than continuous, and many people lack retirement and health plans. 
 But the recession presents a crisis of a different magnitude. 
 Mayor Wharton walks across his office to a picture window and stares at a shimmering Mississippi River. He describes a recent drive through ailing neighborhoods. It is akin, he says, to being a doctor ''looking for pulse rates in his patients and finding them near death.''
 He adds: ''I remember riding my bike as a kid through thriving neighborhoods. Now it's like someone bombed my city.''
 Banking on Nothing
 Camille Thomas, a 40-year-old African-American, loved working for Wells Fargo. ''I felt like I could help people,'' she recalled over coffee. 
 As the subprime market heated up, she said, the bank pressure to move more loans -- for autos, for furniture, for houses -- edged into mania. ''It was all about selling your units and getting your bonus,'' she said. 
 Ms. Thomas and three other Wells Fargo employees have given affidavits for the city's lawsuit against the bank, and their statements about bank practices reinforce one another. 
 ''Your manager would say, 'Let me see your cold-call list. I want you to concentrate on these ZIP codes,' and you knew those were African-American neighborhoods,'' she recalled. ''We were told, 'Oh, they aren't so savvy.' ''
 She described tricks of the trade, several of dubious legality. She said supervisors had told employees to white out incomes on loan applications and substitute higher numbers. Agents went ''fishing'' for customers, mailing live checks to leads. When a homeowner deposited the check, it became a high-interest loan, with a rate of 20 to 29 percent. Then bank agents tried to talk the customer into refinancing, using the house as collateral.
 Several state and city regulators have placed Wells Fargo Bank in their cross hairs, and their lawsuits include similar accusations. In Illinois, the state attorney general has accused the bank of marketing high-cost loans to blacks and Latinos while selling lower-cost loans to white borrowers. John P. Relman, the Washington, D.C., lawyer handling the Memphis case, has sued Wells Fargo on behalf of the City of Baltimore, asserting that the bank systematically exploited black borrowers.
 A federal judge in Baltimore dismissed that lawsuit, saying it had made overly broad claims about the damage done by Wells Fargo. City lawyers have refiled papers. 
 ''I don't think it's going too far to say that banks are at the core of the disaster here,'' said Phyllis G. Betts, director of the Center for Community Building and Neighborhood Action at the University of Memphis, which has closely examined bank lending records.
 Former employees say Wells Fargo loan officers marketed the most expensive loans to black applicants, even when they should have qualified for prime loans. This practice is known as reverse redlining. 
 Webb A. Brewer, a Memphis lawyer, recalls poring through piles of loan papers and coming across name after name of blacks with subprime mortgages. ''This is money out of their pockets lining the purses of the banks,'' he said.
 For a $150,000 mortgage, a difference of three percentage points -- the typical spread between a conventional and subprime loan -- tacks on $90,000 in interest payments over its 30-year life. 
 Wells Fargo officials say they rejected the worst subprime products, and they portray their former employees as disgruntled rogues who subverted bank policies.
 ''They acknowledged that they knowingly worked to defeat our fair lending policies and controls,'' said Mr. Blackwell, the bank executive.
 Bank officials attribute the surge in black foreclosures in Memphis to the recession. They say that the average credit score in black Census tracts is 108 points lower than in white tracts.
 ''People who have less are more vulnerable during downturns,'' said Andrew L. Sandler of Buckley Sandler, a law firm representing Wells Fargo.
 Mr. Relman, the lawyer representing Memphis, is unconvinced. ''If a bad economy and poor credit explains it, you'd expect to see other banks with the same ratio of foreclosures in the black community,'' he said. ''But you don't. Wells is the outlier.''
 Whatever the responsibility, individual or corporate, the detritus is plain to see. Within a two-block radius of that porch in Soulsville, Wells Fargo holds mortgages on nearly a dozen foreclosures. That trail of pain extends right out to the suburbs. 
 Begging to Stay
 To turn into Tyrone Banks's subdivision in Hickory Ridge is to find his dream in seeming bloom. Stone lions guard his door, the bushes are trimmed and a freshly waxed sport utility vehicle sits in his driveway. 
 For years, Mr. Banks was assiduous about paying down his debt: he stayed two months ahead on his mortgage, and he helped pay off his mother's mortgage.
 Two years ago, his doorbell rang, and two men from Wells Fargo offered to consolidate his consumer loans into a low-cost mortgage. 
 ''I thought, 'This is great! ' '' Mr. Banks says. ''When you have four kids, college expenses, you look for any savings.'' 
 What those men did not tell Mr. Banks, he says (and Ms. Thomas, who studied his case, confirms), is that his new mortgage had an adjustable rate. When it reset last year, his payment jumped to $1,700 from $1,200. 
 Months later, he ruptured his Achilles tendon playing basketball, hindering his work as a janitor. And he lost his job at FedEx. Now foreclosure looms.
 He is by nature an optimistic man; his smile is rueful. 
 ''Man, I should I have stayed 'old school' with my finances,'' he said. ''I sat down my youngest son on the couch and I told him, 'These are rough times.' '' 
 Many neighbors are in similar straits. Foreclosure notices flutter like flags on the doors of two nearby homes, and the lawns there are overgrown and mud fills the gutters. 
 Wells Fargo says it has modified three mortgages for every foreclosure nationwide -- although bank officials declined to provide the data for Memphis. A study by the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project and six nonprofit groups found that the nation's four largest banks, Wells Fargo, Bank of America, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, had cut their prime mortgage refinancing 33 percent in predominantly minority communities, even as prime refinancing in white neighborhoods rose 32 percent from 2006 to 2008.
 For Mr. Banks, it is as if he found the door wide open on his way into debt but closed as he tries to get out.
 ''Some days it feels like everyone I know in Memphis is in trouble,'' Mr. Banks says. ''We're all just begging to stay in our homes, basically.''
 The New Poor:: Articles in this series are examining the struggle to recover from the widespread strains of the recession. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'I remember riding my bike as a kid through thriving neighborhoods. Now it's like someone bombed my city.' MAYOR A. C. WHARTON JR. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LANCE MURPHEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
FACING FORECLOSURE: Tyrone Banks in his home in Memphis. He is in danger of losing it after the payments on his mortgage rose and he lost his job at FedEx.
A FADING NEIGHBORHOOD: In Soulsville, houses stand vacant, roofs sag and thieves strip homes of copper piping. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) GRAPHS: The gap between black and white unemployment had been shrinking for decades. But the latest recession has pushed it back to levels of the early '90s. (A1)
A Shrinking Gap, Undone The gap between black and white unemployment had been shrinking for decades. The smallest difference was reached in August 2007, when the black unemployment rate was only 3.5 percentage points above the white rate. But only months later, the latest recession began to push it back to levels of the early 1990s.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); RECESSION (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); TRENDS (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); SOCIOLOGY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



812 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: THE CAUCUS; Democrats Turn Mantra Of G.O.P. on Its Head

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
With the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act, House Democratic leaders opened themselves up to both ends of Republicans' familiar ''tax and spend'' barbs.
 The bill, passed last week, would raise taxes on Wall Street executives and multinational corporations. And it would spend more than $100 billion in the name of creating jobs and extending federal benefits for the jobless.
To overcome opposition, Democrats were forced to make concessions by substantially trimming spending -- not the higher taxes. 
 That points to a new reality as Republicans seek inroads against President Obama and his party in the midterm elections. If they changed the order of their slogan to reflect its current political throw-weight, Republicans would attack Democrats for ''spend and tax,'' not the other way around.
 ''The spending issue has supplanted taxes in the G.O.P. mantra,'' said Neil Newhouse, a Republican pollster. Democrats acknowledge their vulnerability.
 ''As a metaphor, it is powerful,'' said Mark Mellman, a strategist for Democratic leaders. Amid near double-digit unemployment and trillion-dollar deficits, Mr. Mellman said, Americans link spending with ''long-term economic decline, lack of discipline, wasted money, money spent bailing out Wall Street instead of helping Main Street.''
 The primacy of spending as a hot-button issue may fade if economic recovery continues and if Washington moves aggressively to shrink budget deficits. How much that will help Mr. Obama and his party is another question.
 Cuts and Increases
 In 1980, Ronald Reagan placed tax cuts at the center of his campaign to oust President Jimmy Carter and make conservatism the ascendant political force.
 In 1992, Ross Perot's denunciation of deficits helped Bill Clinton wrest the White House from Republican control.
 By 2000, economic boom times had eliminated the deficit issue and limited the drawing power of tax cuts. For his presidential victories, George W. Bush relied more on appeals to values and national security.
 That spending has taken center stage now is no mystery. First, Mr. Bush guided the budget from surplus to deficit with two tax cuts, new prescription drug benefits under Medicare and increased security spending after Sept. 11, including the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 Then, Washington responded to economic crisis by writing two gargantuan checks. In the fall of 2008, Mr. Bush signed a $700 billion bailout for the financial system. In early 2009, Mr. Obama signed a $787 billion stimulus package in hopes of kick-starting the economy out of recession.
 This year, Mr. Obama added a third mammoth expenditure: a health care overhaul priced at $938 billion over 10 years. 
 Never mind that the Congressional Budget Office says tax increases, spending cuts and cost savings associated with the health bill will actually reduce the deficit.
 Nor does it matter, politically, that the Wall Street bailout will end up costing taxpayers a fraction of that $700 billion. Or that Democrats have revived ''pay-go'' procedures earlier abandoned by Republicans, under which Congress must offset most new entitlement spending or tax cuts with corresponding spending cuts or tax increases.
 Mr. Obama's party is in charge. And the juxtaposition of his activism with the specter of overreach, as dramatized lately by the debt crisis in Greece, has turned spending priorities Americans once valued into the political equivalent of toxic assets.
 Arguing Austerity
 For many voters, noted Stan Greenberg, a Democratic strategist, ''spending is debt -- seen as threatening to the long-term economic future.''
 An argument now under way inside Mr. Obama's economic team will settle how, and how quickly, Democrats answer that vulnerability. Lawrence H. Summers, director of the National Economic Council, insisted last week that the recovery remained too fragile for an immediate turn toward austerity.
 ''I cannot agree with those who suggest that it somehow threatens the future to provide truly temporary, high-bang-for-the-buck jobs and growth measures,'' Mr. Summers said in a speech. ''Rather, assuring as rapid a recovery as possible strengthens our future economy, our future prosperity, with many benefits, including a greater ability to manage our debts.''
 Peter R. Orszag, the White House budget director, favors a more aggressive approach to deficit reduction once a presidential commission reports in December. That could take some of the sting out of Republican attacks on spending.
 Of course, that could also leave Democrats exposed once again on taxes, an issue that has been defused lately by Mr. Obama's pledge to focus on only high-income Americans. Some Democratic economists insist taming long-term deficits will require setting that promise aside.
 For now, Democrats must cope with a shift in attitudes they could not have imagined a few years ago, when they fretted over winning back so-called values voters.
 While struggling to pass new spending for the unemployed, House Democrats last week voted to end the Pentagon's ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy and clear the way for gay men and lesbians to serve openly in the military. That objective proved easier to achieve. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama this month with his economic team: Treasury Secretary Timothy R. Geithner
Peter R. Orszag, White House budget director
Lawrence H. Summers, National Economic Council director
 and Christina D. Romer, Council of Economic Advisers chairwoman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BAILOUTS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MEDICARE (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (75%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (57%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); PETER ORSZAG (54%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

 
