

1 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 4; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Deals and Discounts

BYLINE: By JANET PIORKO

 BODY:

MUSICAL NICE -- The Nice Convention and Visitors Bureau has put together a package combining hotel stays with tickets to the Nice Jazz Festival on the French Riviera from July 11 to 18. Performers scheduled to appear include the Neville Brothers and Gato Barbieri. The Nice Festival '97 package includes five nights' accommodation, daily Continental breakfast and tickets to festival performances on three evenings. Prices start at $200 a person, double occupancy, and range up to $416; more than 90 hotels are participating. Air fare is additional. Information: (212) 719-5750 or (800) 847-4249.
 
SOUTH AFRICA FARE -- South African Airways has announced a round-trip fare of $2,004 for travel between New York and Cape Town through June 15 and from Aug. 1 to Sept. 30. Passengers buying tickets at the fare can get a companion ticket free. There is a minimum stay of seven days, maximum of one month; there are penalties for cancellation. Information: (212) 826-0995, (800) 722-9675. 

HOMES FROM HOME -- A company called Country Cottages in Boca Raton, Fla., is offering a one-week house party package in Britain or Ireland priced from $2,896 (low season) for a group of four people, including round-trip British Airways flights from New York or Boston and use of a two-bedroom cottage and midsize rental car with unlimited mileage. The same package starts at $4,092 for a group of six, including a three-bedroom cottage and minivan. Grandparents and grandchildren in a party of six get a $50 discount apiece. Two people traveling together can get a similar package starting at $1,572 for two in a one-bedroom cottage and an economy car. All the cars are standard transmission; the midsize and the minivan can be upgraded to automatic for $70.
Those prices are for Nov. 1 to Dec. 11 in Britain; in Ireland, the low season prices are $1,992 for two people, $3,376 for four and $4,776 for six. In high season, June 15 to Sept. 15 and Dec. 12 to 24, prices are $2,350 to $2,550 for two; $4,116 to $4,596 for four and $5,982 to $6,582 for six. Shoulder season prices are also available. Country Cottages has an inventory of more than 10,000 privately owned homes for rent in Britain and Ireland. For more information: (800) 674-8883 or (561) 988-4000.
 
ST. LUCIA SUMMER -- The Caribbean island of St. Lucia is offering off-season packages good from now to Nov. 30. Prices start at $619 a person, double occupancy, for a three-night package and $768 for seven nights, including air fare from New York and hotel. Participants receive a Summer Adventure Card valid for discounts on tours, shopping and dining. The packages are put together by a variety of tour operators; reservations are made through travel agents. Information: (212) 867-2950 or (888) 478-5824. JANET PIORKO

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SAINT LUCIA (91%); IRELAND (91%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS (PTY) LTD (57%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SAINT LUCIA (91%); IRELAND (91%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AIRLINES (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); AIR FARES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); TOUR PACKAGES (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); GRANDPARENTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



2 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1784 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN: DENVER

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE; JAMES BROOKE is chief of the Denver bureau of The New York Times.

 BODY:
When the cameras zoom in on Denver, where a three-day economic summit of world leaders will be held this month, some residents may try to ward off the international exposure with an outdated protective mantra: "Cow town, brown cloud; cow town, brown cloud."
Far from a cow town, Denver is a clean, park-filled city, low on crime and fueled by high-tech businesses, set against a Rocky Mountain backdrop. And instead of the brown cloud of pollution that once hung over the skyline, visitors will discover that the mile-high city gets plenty of sun. Since 1972, when the Federal Clean Air Act took effect, traffic in Denver has doubled, but the number of days in violation of carbon-monoxide limits has dropped from 125 to 0. 
 But with the population already growing and traffic slowing, it makes Denverites nervous to see Fortune rank their city second only to Seattle on the magazine's list of best cities to live and work in.
The leaders of Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia and their host, President Clinton, will converge on the city June 20 to 22. Their meetings will be held at the Denver Public Library, in the quirky, turreted, copper-clad new wing that looks out onto the lawns and classical architecture of the Civic Center. Most visitors may prefer to wait until the leaders have dispersed before exploring the city's wealth of museums and theaters, the zoo and the baseball stadium.
 
Events
 Across from the library, the Colorado History Museum, at 1300 Broadway, is featuring "Cheyenne Dog Soldiers" through Aug. 3. The exhibit displays and decodes ledgers filled with colorful drawings left by Cheyenne warriors who fought the Army in the late 1860's. The museum, with exhibits that are a key to understanding this young, rapidly changing state, charges $3 admission, $2.50 for people 65 and over and for students, and $1.50 for children 6 to 16; (303) 866-3682.
Midway between the Civic Center and Lower Downtown -- LoDo -- at the corner of 14th and Curtis Streets, the Denver Center for the Performing Arts has eight theaters with a total of 9,200 seats -- fewer only than Lincoln Center among American performing arts centers. All summer, the cabaret theater, the Garner Galleria, will present "Always . . . Patsy Cline," a charming and high-spirited musical comedy about the early 1960's country-Western singer. Tickets are $25 and $29 from (303) 893-4100.
Even for the sports illiterate, attending a Rockies game at Coors Field, at 20th and Blake Streets, is a real joy. Opened two years ago at the northwestern edge of LoDo, this red brick stadium captures the intimacy of old-time baseball -- some seats are closer to the batter than the pitcher is. At a twilight game, fans can watch the sun sink behind the mountains that gave the team its name.
The Rockies will have home games against the San Diego Padres, Florida Marlins and Atlanta Braves Wednesday through June 11, and the Texas Rangers on June 17 and 18. The San Francisco Giants are in town June 26 to 29, followed by the Anaheim Angels June 30 and July 1. Tickets: $4 to $28; (800) 388-7625.
Coors Field, of course, is named after a brewery, and the Denver area is a major beer-making center. On June 14 and 15, 38 microbreweries will join with 5 wineries and 10 area restaurants in the Denver Post Lower Downtown Beer, Wine and Food Festival. These establishments will peddle their wares at the Coors Field parking lot, 19th and Wazee Streets, and 20 bands will perform. Tickets: $5, $3 in advance; (303) 458-6685
 
Sightseeing
 The No. 1 attraction is the 16th Street Mall, a milelong pedestrian promenade dotted with cafes. A free shuttle bus along the mall links the Civic Center with Denver's bohemia -- the 26 red-brick blocks of lofts and entertainment spots of LoDo.
Near the Civic Center end rises the Denver Art Museum, 100 West 14th Avenue Parkway, (303) 640-2295. Besides an excellent collection of pre-Columbian and Spanish colonial art, the museum is noted for its 17,000 pieces of American Indian art. Admission: $4.50, $3.50 for students and seniors; free on Saturday. Closed Monday.
Also just off the Civic Center end of the mall is the Museum of Western Art, 1727 Tremont Place, (303) 296-1880, in a discreet brick building that used to be a gambling hall and bordello. Instead of crimson satin wallpaper, the walls are now decorated with a collection of Western art, from Albert Bierstadt to Frederic Remington. Admission: $3, $2 for those 65 and older and students. Closed Sunday and Monday.
At the other end of the mall is LoDo, once skid row and now home to jazz and comedy clubs, art galleries, restaurants and brew pubs -- and the Tattered Cover, 1628 16th Street, (303) 436-1070, a bookstore with overstuffed chairs, espresso and an invitation to browse.
For the footsore, Punt the Creek offers rides in flat-bottomed boats (punts) imported last year from England. They push off from a pocket park at 14th and Larimer Streets, taking tourists on a 45-minute tour of LoDo on placid Cherry Creek. Tickets: $7, $3.50 for children and $6 for seniors; (303) 893-0750.
The Denver Zoo, 2300 Steele Street, (303) 331-4110, celebrated its 100th anniversary last year by opening Primate Panorama, seven-acre home to 25 primate species, ranging from tiny squirrel monkeys to 400-pound gorillas. There is also Tropical Discovery, a rain forest under a bubble that offers humid refuge from Denver's bone-dry climate. Open daily. Admission is $6, $3 for children 4 to 12 and people 62 and older.
Nearby, the Natural History Museum, 2001 Colorado Boulevard, (800) 925-2250, opened its own blockbuster exhibit last year, Prehistoric Journey, exploring 3.5 billion years of evolution. Admission: $6, $4 for children 3 to 12 and people over 60.
 
Where to Stay
 Denver offers three hotels from the 1890's -- the Brown Palace, Oxford and Castle Marne -- that are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
Castle Marne, 1572 Race Street, (800) 926-2763, fax (303) 331-0623, is a three-story, nine-room lava-stone mansion that is now a luxurious urban bed-and-breakfast. Rescued from its 1980's use as a processing center for parolees, Castle Marne was painstakingly restored to its turn-of-the-century opulence: Oriental runners on the oak staircase, rococo gilt mirrors and a comfortable parlor for reading by a fireplace. Doubles are $85 to $200.
In August, a large addition will open at the Adam's Mark, 1550 Court Place, (303) 893-3333 or (800) 444-2326, fax (303) 626-2544. At the Civic Center end of the 16th Street Mall, the Adam's Mark will roughly double its present size to 1,225 rooms. Rooms start at $79 and go to $190.
Budget: Just outside downtown is the Broadway Plaza Motel, 1111 Broadway, (303) 893-3501, fax (303) 893-8514. This 40-room motel was recently remodeled and is within walking distance of the library and convention center. Doubles are $55.
The Downtown Super 8 Hotel, 2601 Zuni Street, (303) 433-6677 or (800) 282-0711, fax (303) 455-1530, is about one mile west of LoDo. It has 155 rooms at $58 and $68.
Luxury: President Clinton and the American delegation will be staying at the Brown Palace, 321 17th Street, (800) 321-2599, fax (303) 293-9204. This 1893 landmark has been host to every American President since Theodore Roosevelt, with the exception of Calvin Coolidge. Sparkling after a $10 million restoration of its mostly Victorian decor (some rooms are Art Deco), the 237-room hotel is centered on an eight-story atrium with a skylight. Doubles are $195 to $205, suites $255 to $775.
In LoDo is the 81-room Oxford Hotel, 1600 17th Street, (800) 228-5838, fax (303) 628-5413, which also houses McCormick's Fish House, one of the city's best restaurants. In the hotel corridors, black and white photographs give a sense of place, French and English antiques furnish the rooms, each with a different look, and the Cruise Room is an Art Deco saloon. Corner rooms with a view of LoDo are $199; others, $89 to $299.
 
Where to Eat
 Denver has the thinnest population, according to an obesity study of the nation's 33 largest cities released last year. Given the fine fare in local restaurants, residents must be working off the calories in the mountains.
If there is any symbol of Denver cuisine, it is the buffalo. Low in fat and cholesterol, and high in protein, it is a specialty at The Fort, 19192 Route 8 in Morrison, a western suburb, (303) 697-4771. A copy of Bent's Fort, an 1833 fur trading post in southern Colorado, the adobe restaurant is a culinary-history museum. President Clinton plans to use it to show off Western American history and cuisine at a state dinner.
Highlights from the regular menu include roast buffalo marrow bones ($7.95); elk medallion steaks with huckleberry sauce ($24.75); mesquite-grilled Arctic char with rice pilaf and seasonal vegetables ($26.95), and a variety of buffalo steaks, at market prices. Dinner for two, with wine, is around $80 to $100.
Four blocks from the Civic Center is the Denver Buffalo Company, 1109 Lincoln Street, (303) 832-0880, which also ships buffalo steaks across the land (888 528-2833). There are at least 13 different buffalo entrees, ranging from liver and onions for $14.95 to a 16-ounce porterhouse Buffalo steak for $38.95. There are also veal, lamb, quail, duck, chicken and trout. Dinner for two with wine is $75 to $100.
A 10-minute cab ride from downtown, Highland's Garden Cafe, 3927 West 32d Avenue, (303) 458-5920, offers summer dining in a flower-filled garden. The menu changes a lot but recently included quail stuffed with goat cheese as an appetizer ($8.50) and bouillabaisse with fresh lobster, shrimp and clams and served with saffron ($24). Dinner for two with wine is about $70.
On the inexpensive side, Wynkoop Brewing Company, 1634 18th Street, (303) 297-2700, a large brew pub, offers excellent burgers and a boisterous atmosphere in the heart of LoDo. Off the grill, there is a half-pound buffalo burger ($5.95) or char-broiled elk medallions ($15.95). From the oven, there is a baked salmon ($13.95) and shepherd's pie of Colorado lamb ($6.50). Railyard Ale, Wilderness Wheat and Patty's Chili Beer are among the brews that go well with such fare. Dinner for two with beer is about $35.
Just across the city line, in Lakewood, the neon lights of Gordo's, 599 Sheridan Boulevard, (303) 237-8536, mark a 73-year-old family Mexican restaurant whose name roughly translates as "Fatso's." The service is amiable, the food delicious and the portions generous. A plate of enchiladas goes for $5.50, a plate of fajitas $8.50, and the burrito dinner $7.75. Dinner for two with beer is $20 to $25.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Runners in City Park have views of the Rockies and the State Capitol dome.; The Center for the Performing Arts has eight theaters.; This month's summit will be held in the Public Library's new wing. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Denver. (Sources: Runzheimer International, Denver Convention and Visitors Bureau, Western Regional Climate Center, local businesses)
 
Map of Denver, Colorado highlighting city attractions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (70%); FRANCE (58%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (95%); WYOMING, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (95%); CHEYENNE, WY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (70%); FRANCE (58%); COLORADO, USA (95%); WYOMING, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (95%); CHEYENNE, WY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available THEATER (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (87%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (86%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (86%); BASEBALL (86%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); ARMIES (72%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); CARBON MONOXIDE (70%); HISTORY (69%); LIBRARIES (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); ARMED FORCES (64%); MAMMALS (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



3 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Q&A: Dr. Philip E. Austin;
Money, Partnerships, Planning at UConn

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
ON April 17, Dr. Philip E. Austin was inaugurated as the 13th president of the University of Connecticut. Dr. Austin, 55, raised in North Dakota and a graduate of North Dakota State University, began his career as provost at Bernard Baruch College in New York in 1978, after service in Vietnam.
He went on to become president of Colorado State University and then chancellor of the University of Alabama system in 1989, a post he held until his move to UConn. Now, he oversees the 116-year-old flagship of the state's university system, with more than 22,000 students at eight campuses. 
 Dr. Austin wasted no time taking charge: within days of assuming the top post at UConn, he sent a five-page letter to faculty and staff detailing some of his plans, including outside review teams to inspect academic departments, improved relations with legislators and businesses, and a marketing campaign to attract students and staff.
He also told the university community that he will not live full-time on campus (he is the first president of UConn to do so). He and his wife, Dr. Susan Gates Austin, have bought a home in Farmington.
Dr. Austin recently answered some questions about UConn in an interview. Following are some excerpts from that conversation.
Q. Some alumni think UConn has had a rather rapid succession of presidents in the last 20 years. Do you intend to be here long?
A. The fact is, the average university president serves less than six years. Here, your last three presidents have stayed longer than average.
Q. Your proposal to bring in outside teams to assess the job being done in academic departments -- is that likely to generate ill will?
A. I don't think it will among the good people. There are faculty members across the campus who are dedicated to quality, who are dedicated to making UConn a better place, and they understand the importance of being evaluated by peers. I'm sure there are some people who are worried, but I have heard nothing but support. People have told me, "This is right now; this is the way to do things."
Q. Has that been tried elsewhere?
A. Most of the Big Ten do it already. And we do a lot of it already at UConn. We have accreditation of individual programs, and the decennial college-wide accreditation, which we recently went through with flying colors.
Q. You have vetoed a plan to move the West Hartford campus to downtown Hartford, which the legislature endorsed. Is that likely to create a backlash?
A. I haven't sensed a good deal of opposition. I rather laid it on the line from the start -- we have a perfectly good operation going in West Hartford, and that could have been jeopardized by moving it to the downtown. But that said, the university has a major role to play in the revitalization of our capitol city, and I have been looking for opportunities, including putting some of our programs into space in the proposed higher education complex downtown. We don't want to compete with Trinity College or the Hartford Graduate Center, but where there is demand and we have programs to meet it, we will provide them.
Q. You've talked about expanding the school's relationship with Connecticut business. At what point do you become too close?
A. The point at which we cross the line, from the very good -- mutual reinforcement -- to the very bad -- business calling the shots -- is the moment that the faculty does not make the decisions regarding the direction of research.
But to the extent that the research interests of faculty members and corporations coincide, and we follow all the traditional academic rules regarding publication in a timely manner and not withholding information from academic peers, I think both sides can benefit. In many respects that is just a contemporary version of the way we started, as a land grant university, consulting with farmers
Q. The UConn 2000 program will put $1 billion into infrastructure over 10 years. How difficult will it be to convince the legislature to give you an adequate operating budget once it is completed?
A. If you visualize the university as the platform for the state's economic revitalization, you realize you are going to need resources to assemble a high quality academic instruction and research program.
Private giving, historically, has not been very important to public universities. It has increased at UConn at rates that were not only unpredictable but unbelievable. For many years UConn raised less than $1 million a year. We made a commitment to increasing that, including hiring a vice president for development, and last year they raised $12 million. This year there's $18 million in the bank and it's looking like they will hit $20 million.
But you can't sustain a high level of quality on private donations. You can use that to endow scholarships to make sure you have students from all kinds of backgrounds, for instance. But you simply have to have a state appropriation somewhere near the middle of what our peer institutions receive. We're not there.
Q. You've said UConn has the potential to become a great university. What were the signs, and how would you define "great university?"
A. I saw a strong commitment to quality around this campus. And I saw UConn 2000, which showed that elected leaders realized the only way we're going to attract jobs to replace all those lost in defense and insurance and manufacturing is to have a strong state university.
We will know we have achieved it when faculty around the country want to come here, when this is seen as a place of intellectual vibrancy and vitality, when young people in Connecticut see us as competitive with or above the level of private colleges. Then when we get there, it will be a constant struggle to maintain it.
Q. Do you anticipate reallocation of resources? Which departments will be winners? And losers?
A. We have closed the Russian language program, and there will be more of that -- de-emphasizing certain areas, and redirecting resources to areas that are of high quality and consistent with the demands of Connecticut students. If there's a program that is excellent and nobody wants to study it, what good does it do to offer it?
There are programs among the professions that have already proven their excellence: the law school, the business school, the pharmacy school. With modest additional resources, they could be among the top programs in the country. The same for certain areas in biotechnology, material sciences, photonics, marine biology and psychology.
Q. Given some of the advances in interactive technology, does UConn still need a branch campus network?
A. Certainly, we don't need to replicate the programs we offer here on any other campus. There will always a place for this type of residential campus, the main repository for intellectual resources, and then the other campuses will slowly evolve into their own special missions.
Avery Point, for instance, offers courses for undergraduate students who would not for whatever reason have an opportunity to come here. But the main mission for Avery Point will be marine biology, since it is right on Long Island Sound.
Q. Have tuition increases made UConn inaccessible?
A. I don't think it's reached that point. In comparison to other New England public schools, three years ago we were No. 3 in terms of tuition. Last year we were No. 4, and this year we're No. 5. And we will continue to watch our tuition levels closely. But it's important to realize tuition is a direct function of state support. It is inversely related to the level of our state appropriation.
Q. Given the success of the UConn basketball program, there's been a lot of discussion lately about the balance between academics and athletics. Do you think UConn has struck the proper balance?
A. The University of Connecticut is an academic institution where there exist a number of ancillary activities for the development of our students, and among those ancillary activities are athletics.
A couple of years ago, by chance, I turned on one of the women's basketball games. The announcer said something to the effect that these women maintained a 3.85 grade point average, and they all graduated in four years. I think that shows that we've achieved the proper balance.
We are an academic institution, that's why we are here, period.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Philip E. Austin, UConn's new president, sees a pivotal economic role for the university. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (73%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%); COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (90%); COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (90%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%); COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (90%); COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (90%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (73%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); ACCREDITATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A; AUSTIN, PHILIP E (DR)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



4 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Joining MSNBC in Secaucus, N.J.;
In the Meadowlands, a Studio City for Harmon Cove

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
FROM the outside it does not look much different from others in the sea of bulky buildings that are its neighbors at the Harmon Cove industrial park in the Secaucus, N.J., Meadowlands.
But inside, carved from the shell of the 115,000-square-foot warehouse, is MSNBC's new headquarters. On April 7 the 24-hour cable news channel and Internet service, created by Microsoft and NBC, started airing from its New Jersey home, fueling a 10-year plan to turn a chunk of the 770-acre park into a Burbank of the East called Harmon Studio City. 
 The owner, Hartz Mountain Industries, plans to create up to 5 million square feet of space for television and film production, related uses and multimedia businesses by recycling old warehouses and developing new buildings, said Emanuel Stern, president of the real estate division of Hartz. His division has transformed its Meadowlands property from marshland into a distribution hub, a factory outlet center, offices and two hotels.
Mr. Stern said Hartz was pursuing its latest plan because of a studio space squeeze in Manhattan and in anticipation of growth in the media and entertainment industry. He is also betting that the high-ceilinged, column-free spaces that fill Harmon Cove and remain a rarity in Manhattan will draw interest.
The Meadowlands is one of several areas in New Jersey, among them Fort Lee, and others in the region, such as Stamford, Conn., where state and local officials are offering tax abatements and other incentives to lure media and entertainment industry users.
Developers also embrace those businesses as a way to diversify their tenant base. In New Jersey, the developer of Fort Lee Executive Park, a 600,000-square-foot office complex near the George Washington Bridge, says it is planning a "mini Hollywood on the Hudson." The developer, the Orlian Group, of Fort Lee, intends to develop up to 400,000 square feet of production and related space at its campus, and up to 600,000 more square feet on a nearby site.
The project would return to Fort Lee a piece of its history as a film center. "The reasons studio heads came here 100 years ago are the same reasons they will come today," said Robert Miller, the park's project manager. Key among them, he said, are cost savings and proximity to Manhattan.
In Stamford, local officials are working with developers to create 300,000 square feet of such space initially in a state-designated entertainment media district, said Kip Bergstrom, the city's Economic Development Director.
Each location already is home to a cadre of media firms. Those with Stamford operations include Time Warner and Group W Satellite Communications, a CBS division devoted to cable and other nonbroadcast distribution. In New Jersey, they include CNBC, WWOR and now MSNBC, which selected Secaucus after looking at more than 200 sites in the New York metropolitan region, said Michael Sherlock, the MSNBC executive vice president in charge of technology.
With studio space tight and costly to create in Manhattan those involved in the separate plans hope their locations will become less expensive alternatives. Under each plan construction will start once a tenant has leased space.
"There may be a spillover to areas outside of Manhattan, but the question is how big will the demand be," said Alan B. Weisman, senior managing director of the Manhattan office of Grubb & Ellis, a national commercial brokerage concern. "The answer is nobody knows."
The number of feature films shot in New York City rose from 157 in 1994 to 201 last year, according to the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater & Broadcasting. The office added that more than 100 television programs were filmed in the city each year.
In New Jersey, 69 feature films and 99 television programs were shot last year, up from 41 feature films and 89 television programs in 1994, figures from the state's Motion Picture and Television Commission show.
CABLE stations also have channels to fill. And the change in the delivery of television signals that enables stations with one channel to deliver five or six could spur "an incremental demand for space," said John Reidy, media analyst at Smith Barney.
A 1996 study now being updated by Coopers & Lybrand, the accounting firm, estimates that jobs in the new media industry will double to 92,000 next year in the metropolitan region. That industry includes online services, Internet and CD-ROM publishers and developers.
No statistics exist on production space in Manhattan and the region. "Quality space -- with ceilings of 20 feet or higher and wide column bays -- is limited in Manhattan and users have compromised their space needs because of the lack of options," said Brian Given, executive managing director at the Manhattan office of Williams Real Estate, a national commercial brokerage. Areas outside Manhattan with attractive buildings and rents "will fill a need for some users," he said.
Moreover, said officials and developers in New Jersey and Stamford, other expenses in their areas -- from real estate taxes and utilities to labor and operating costs -- are also lower.
Some industry experts caution that the need for production space is cyclical and leaving Manhattan is an impediment for the media and entertainment industry. "The ability to draw on the city's diversity and intellectual capacity is critical and something many users don't want to risk," said Mary Ann Tighe, executive managing director at the Manhattan office of Insignia/ESG, a national commercial brokerage.
Meanwhile, studio production space already exists elsewhere in New York City, including Kaufman Astoria Studios in Astoria, Queens, which says it is fully booked, and the Silvercup Studios in nearby Long Island City, which says it has space available, and Chelsea Piers on the Hudson River waterfront in Manhattan, which is almost fully booked. More space is being planned in Manhattan.
One project calls for transforming the desolate piers between 52d and 55th Streets into a 400,000-square-foot film and television production center. And Trinity Real Estate -- the real estate arm of Trinity Church -- is contemplating creating 75,000 square feet of production space for a user by stitching together space at 345 Hudson Street, between Charlton and King Streets, with a structure that could be built on an adjacent parking lot.
"For many users if they can't be in Manhattan there is no second location," said Steven Heyman, Trinity's director of commercial real estate leasing. "We are testing the waters."
So are the developers and officials in New Jersey and Stamford. They said their sites would complement, not compete with, Manhattan and that decisions like MSNBC's would continue to be made. "We are inextricably bound to New York, so by enhancing the region as an entertainment and media hub, we both win," said Gualberto Medina, commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Commerce and Economic Development.
Mr. Bergstrom, Stamford's Economic Development Director, said that his city's intent was "not to raid New York," but to position Stamford "as an alternative location."
At Harmon Cove, Mr. Stern of Hartz said that, with MSNBC as a 15-year tenant, his company had the critical mass to recreate a Burbank in the Meadowlands. Years ago, he continued, naysayers said Harmon Cove would not draw distribution users from Manhattan, but when Panasonic moved its operations there in 1971, the park was stamped as a legitimate location. The hope is that the same will result from the MSNBC move, he added.
"In terms of economics, the numbers are compelling," he said, noting that rents for unimproved warehouse space at Harmon Cove are $5 to $8 a square foot. And the roads, utilities and buildings are in place to support such users, he said, adding that 800,000 more square feet of space could be built.
Mr. Sherlock, of MSNBC, said the site had been chosen because it met his company's goals. It wanted a building accessible to employees with high ceilings and room to grow, and a location near NBC's Manhattan headquarters and its other cable station, CNBC in Fort Lee. Other factors were favorable economics and the state incentives, such as the sale of $150 million in bonds to help buy equipment and convert the warehouse -- a process that took nearly a year. The building includes an 18,000-square-foot newsroom, a 6,400-square-foot production studio, editing rooms and a fitness center.
Ruminating on the future, Mr. Stern said the logic was there for Harmon Cove to become a "production destination." For now he can take some satisfaction that a bit of reality has been given to his vision. When MSNBC newscasters sign off they say: "Reporting from Harmon Studio City."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Sherlock of NBC, left, and Emanuel Stern of Hartz Mountain in MSNBC studio; dish antenna outside of studio. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Harmon Studio City in Secaucus, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MSNBC; HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MSNBC; HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES

GEOGRAPHIC: SECAUCUS (NJ); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); FILM (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (64%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (61%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



5 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
A Megamall Cornerstone for a Waterbury Revival

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

DATELINE: WATERBURY

 BODY:
UNTIL the 1950's Waterbury was the queen city of a prosperous Naugatuck Valley industrial corridor. But over the years its major factories moved away and its economy sagged.
Last year, the commercial-property vacancy rate downtown reached 48 percent before dropping back to 37 percent with rentals of some professional offices, restaurants and stores. 
 Now the city is reinventing itself as a regional retail and entertainment center. Its cornerstone will be the Brass Mill Center, a 1.1-million-square-foot, $160 million shopping mall nearing completion on 87 acres off Interstate 84. The project will supply some 2,600 full-time jobs. But even as construction on the mall nears completion, the effects that the shopping complex, and another nearby, will have on Waterbury's downtown remain unclear.
The project had it genesis three years ago when Homart, a Chicago mall developer, began the arduous task of removing the site's 118,000 tons of contaminated soil and 63 vacant and deteriorated buildings where the historic Scovill Brass Works had operated for 200 years. The yearlong cleanup and demolition of Scovill closed the book on Waterbury's history as Connecticut's industrial engine.
In 1995, General Growth Properties of Chicago bought Homart from Sears; the company began construction of the mall last spring. It is scheduled to open Sept. 17.
Anchored by Filene's, Sears and J. C. Penney stores, the complex is to have 150 additional shops, a 12-screen theater with 3,506 seats, four restaurants, 8 fast-food stalls in an 800-seat food court, about 5,800 parking spaces and a linear park where shoppers can relax alongside the Mad River.
A museum dedicated to the history of clocks will be installed by Timex, which is based in the suburb of Middlebury, in two restored Scovill buildings. General Growth is also constructing a 200,000-square-foot supplemental mall called The Commons on the same site. It will include Lechmere's, an electronics and appliance department store; a Sears automotive supply store, Barnes & Noble, Kids "R" Us, Toys "R" Us, Boston Market, Office Max, a furniture store, a microbrewery/pub and two banks.
Both malls were designed by Arrowstreet, a Somerville, Mass., architectural firm, with Patricia Cornelison as lead designer. Arrowstreet is also currently working on Park Square West, a retail enclave in downtown Stamford, as well as malls in New Haven, Waterford and Stonington. The firm is also designing theaters for Hoyt Cinemas worldwide, including the multiplex at the Brass Mill Center.
Filene's and Sears are building their own stores, and will own and manage them, vacating their existing locations at Waterbury's 28-year-old, 575,000-square-foot Naugatuck Valley Mall a mile and a half north of the Brass Mill Center.
According to Patricia L. Ritchie, the older mall's general manager, its 50 individual stores "have taken a dive."
"We have an empty four-screen theater and a 25 percent vacancy rate," she said.
Many stores are temporary tenants, she added, reflecting the mood of uncertainty among retailers unsure of getting space in the new mall.
These days traffic around the Brass Mill Center creeps at a snail's pace through the developer's road-widening projects and bridge construction, and owners of rundown housing and businesses in the area anticipate their suddenly desirable real estate will start selling for higher prices.
East Main Street, running across the north side of the mall and into downtown three blocks south, is scheduled to be widened to four or six lanes as part of the city's plan to link the mall with downtown and thus revitalize it.
If current plans are realized, visitors will be able to attend Broadway shows and concerts at the 3,200-seat Palace Theater, an elaborate 1920's vaudeville and movie house due for restoration, as well as be able to dine at new restaurants and browse through new shops.
Mayor Philip A. Giordano pointed to the added attraction of the city's six-block historic district, which contains a handsome green, a Georgian City Hall, a new state courthouse, the 1909 landmarked railroad station and the Mattatuck Museum and Historical Society designed by Cesar Pelli.
"The mall will bring 10,000 people a day from outside the city," the Mayor said. "We want to lure them into the downtown area and give them something else to do."
But getting people downtown could be a challenge, considering the access ramps that the developer is building from Interstate 84 directly into the mall, and a state-of-the-art supermarket going into The Commons. "The concept is to provide the consumer with one-stop shopping," said William Fox, in charge of leasing for General Growth Properties.
OTHERS said it was open to question whether downtown would benefit. "The history of megamalls entering downtown areas has been stark," said David Obarowsky, a Waterbury lawyer. "Either the downtown flourishes or perishes."
Mr. Obarowsky is a member of Downtown Initiative, a year-old group of private citizens working with the city and its development agencies to lure investment into Waterbury. "Our office market will clearly pick up," he said, "because we are focusing on it as an information-technology center."
At the city's request, the General Assembly is considering a bill that would create such a center with tax abatements to draw appropriate businesses into the city, providing relief from a punishing tax rate of $74.64 per $1,000 of assessed value -- one of the highest in the state.
Despite the high taxes, there have been some successes, such as the 3-story, 90,000-square-foot Brown Building, which sold for around $400,000 two years ago and recently was resold for about twice that amount.
Local realtors estimate that commercial rents downtown, ranging from $5 to $15 a square foot, will compare favorably with rents at the mall, which are expected to hover around $35 a square foot.
Waterbury's limited manufacturing sector "has firmed up with a 5 percent vacancy rate," said Tom Hill, owner of Tom Hill Realty and Investments in Waterbury, adding that the residential market remained flat in the city relative to the suburbs.
"We are seeing up to 15 percent increases in prices for homes that are still a bargain at $150,000 to $200,000," he said, citing houses in the surrounding suburbs of Southbury, Middlebury, Naugatuck and Watertown. "Successful Waterbury people tend to move there, and the more southerly suburbs are getting in-migration from Fairfield County," he said.
The blighted 40-block area north of the mall will be rehabilitated by Neighborhood Housing Services, a local nonprofit agency that will buy up dilapidated housing and demolish or refurbish it. It then plans to sell back renovated housing to existing tenants, who will make their purchases with state subsidies.
The project will take an as yet undetermined number of years. Funds for work on the first 20-house block, said Adele Strelchun, director of Neighborhood Housing Services, will be provided by a no-interest $200,000 loan, as well as a $800,000 grant from the state and a $15,000 grant from the Community Economic Development Fund, a quasi-public state agency.
Ms. Strelchun said that she expected that similar funds would be available on an annual basis. But she voiced concern that developers would buy some of the property involved in foreclosure "before we get a chance."
Joseph Begnal, owner of the Brown Derby Bar and restaurant on East Main Street opposite the mall, had looked forward to brisk business from the 400 mall construction workers. But, he said, "they never come for lunch -- they carry their own -- and they never come in after work."
Now a real estate agent, Ralph Calabrese of Ralph Calabrese Realty, is putting together a number of small parcels on the block, including the bar, and marketing them for big-box stores.
"It's the land that's worth something, not the businesses," said Mr. Calabrese. But, he cautioned, "the owners have to realize that there's only a certain number a retailer will pay for an acre -- maybe $250,000 to $500,000 split among anywhere from three to seven parcel owners."
Mayor Giordano said the city was prepared "through purchase or eminent domain" to acquire a total of about 10 acres for the highway widening and for sale in parcels to appropriate developers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workmen at the 1.1-million-square-foot Brass Mill Center, now nearing completion in Waterbury. The $160-million project will provide 2,600 full-time jobs, but its impact on the city's downtown is unclear. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of the Brass Mill Center in Waterbury, Conn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JCP (NYSE) (84%); GGP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (55%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (55%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (52%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: BRASS MILL CENTER (WATERBURY, CONN) J C PENNEY CO INC (84%); GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC (55%); TOYS 'R' US INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRASS MILL CENTER (WATERBURY, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: WATERBURY (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MOVIE THEATERS (86%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BOOKSTORES (76%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (76%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (76%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (76%); HISTORY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (71%); TRENDS (71%); FURNITURE STORES (71%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); SUBURBS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



6 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY;
Beyond Betting: A Good Day at the Track

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
IN Atlantic City, this was the scene one morning at the sprawling Taj Mahal casino, which like all gambling parlors has no windows to let the sun in:
Hundreds of people, each locked in their own private world, grimly fed coins into slot machines. Few conversed amid the Muzak of money, the downpouring din of coins clattering into slot machine trays designed to chant the promise of jackpots. 
 Seventy miles up the Garden State Parkway, meanwhile, this was the scene a few hours later at another gambling joint, Monmouth Park Race Track:
Frank Hughes, spiffy in a top hat, red hunting coat and shiny black riding boots, marched out of the tunnel from the paddock and halted beside the winner's circle. Smartly, he hoisted a four-foot heraldic trumpet to his lips and blew the silvery flourishes of the call to the post. The crowd stirred, a tossing sea of color in the stands. In a few minutes, the thunder of horse hoofs and the grandstand's roar built in a crescendo.
"It's all part of the protocol of the track," explained Mr. Hughes, who teaches music and directs the band at Toms River High School, as he headed back to the clubhouse to wait for the next race. "There's such beauty in it."
Yes, a race track is a place to gamble money.
But when Monmouth Park opened for the summer the Saturday before Memorial Day, it was also a good place to wander in the tumult and reflect on the internalized casino culture that is threatening the merry social culture of horse racing.
Monmouth Park opened in 1870. By the early 1890's, President Grant had a box there. Following a long hiatus legislated by anti-gambling bluenoses, the track reopened after World War II and went on to become a premier East Coast showcase for quality two- and three-year-old thoroughbreds.
To enter such a track is to recall that first summer vision of Yankee Stadium's emerald green, in the days before corporations confiscated the good seats and relentless advertising smothered ball park ambiance while mascots danced in aisles and scoreboards instructed the crowd how to respond.
At the race track, you see cascades of red geraniums in flower boxes on the stands, not billboards selling beer and banks. Trainers walk the horses under beech trees, while children watch with their parents. Fountains splash beside picnic tables. Armani suits mingle with Levis; cowboy hats perch beside baseball caps, bowlers and summer bonnets. Lizard boots stride next to Nikes. And nobody hollers at the codger in a windbreaker puffing his cigar.
People talk to strangers, who don't react as if a gun has been pulled on them. "So who do you like in the third?" a man in a white silk suit asked a men's room attendant, who replied at length.
At the paddock, a woman frowned at a tautly muscled 2-year-old bay. "This one looks persnickety," she told a stranger, a middle-aged man studying a racing form that conveyed information on many variables -- a horse's pedigree, its performance under various conditions, the weight it carries, its peculiarities, its jockey. But not its moods.
"You know, you're right, miss," the man told her, and trotted off to adjust his bet.
The cultural morning line says that horse racing -- a sport that requires expensive horses, expert players and at least a semblance of fans' analytical skill -- is doomed by casinos. In New Jersey, casinos have diverted more than $7 billion from horse racing since 1976. In 1976, attendance at Monmouth Park was one million. Last year, it was 696,000. Other tracks, doing worse, now depend heavily on television simulcasting that gives them the elan of O.T.B. parlors. Delaware's tracks are crammed with slot machines. Pennsylvania's and New York's may follow.
Given the cold economics, it's unclear how much longer New Jersey will be able to prevent someplace like Monmouth Park, a track as beautiful as Saratoga's, from becoming merely a slot-machine joint with some horses. Luckily, powerful casino owners like Donald Trump, for their own obvious reasons, have vowed to fight any legislation to allow slots in Jersey's race tracks. Still, some people think it's just a matter of time.
Meanwhile, like a vintage carousel, a race track beats on against the tide. "Monmouth Park is old enough, with all this quaint charm, to draw good crowds in a summer meet," said Bobby Kulina, the track's vice president for thoroughbred racing, and himself the son of a trainer. "All we have to do now is not mess it up."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available GAMING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); HORSES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%); HORSE RACING (75%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (73%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (73%); CHILDREN (71%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



7 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Demand Grows For Hourly Workers

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
IT is 8 A.M. on a weekday, and as a crush of highly paid executives heads for work along a strip of corporate office parks in Tarrytown, Linny Dung, 23, puts on a checkered apron at the Westchester Marriott Hotel and prepares for the long day ahead. A determined worker, Mr. Dung wants to save enough money to open a restaurant of his own someday. But for now the Vietnamese immigrant is content to be known as the waiter who tells jokes as he serves meals -- earning $3.64 an hour plus tips but honing the skills he will need for the future. 
 At 68, George Zaccagnini, a worker at the county-operated Maple Moor Golf Course in White Plains, earns $5.20 an hour, yet he is similarly gratified to be employed, low wages notwithstanding. Although the former ceramic tile worker planned carefully for his later years, he said he has discovered that his savings do not cover all of his expenses. "Besides, I don't want to fade away just sitting at home," he said. "Working keeps me young."
In yet another section of Westchester, Oscar Flores, 35, works as a landscape foreman for Sprain Brook Nursery in Scarsdale, also for hourly wages, installing handsome green lawns and bushes for wealthy customers. Though his earnings are limited, the native of El Salvador dreams of sending his children to American colleges someday so they will be able to live in large houses like the ones their father works on.
Mr. Dung, Mr. Zaccagnini and Mr. Flores are representative of low-paid hourly workers in one of the country's richest areas, where 18 municipalities were listed in Worth magazine among the 300 wealthiest in America.
And while almost 50 percent of Westchester's households have incomes above $50,000 a year, only 14.4 percent, according to the 1990 census, earn less than $15,000 a year -- which, translated into hourly wages, converts to less than $7 an hour based on a 40-hour workweek.
Noreen L. Preston, an economist with the County Planning Department, observed that while Westchester ranks among the highest in the United States in terms of average household income, it is also a county of "tremendous diversity -- from the very wealthy to the poorest."
National trends show that despite their lack of skills and formal education, low-wage workers are increasingly in demand. The economy, in its sixth year of recovery after the last recession, is seeking fast-food workers, office clerks, factory assembly workers, laborers, hotel workers, gardeners and others at the bottom of the income scale.
With the unemployment rate at 4.9 percent nationally -- less than 4 percent in Westchester -- those workers are in high demand, and the trend is that employers may have to pay more in the future to compete for them. Hourly workers are also benefiting from the first increase since 1995 of the minimum wage, which is now $4.75 an hour.
In the first quarter of this year, figures showed that the weekly wages of full-time, adult workers in the lower 10 percent of the wage spectrum rose at a 4.4 percent annual rate, bringing the top of that group to $259 a week or $6.48 an hour. By comparison, the median weekly wage rose 3.5 percent in that period, to $536 a week or $13.50 an hour.
Nationally, the higher wages have attracted more black women, older men, immigrants, teen-agers and Hispanic people -- swelling the work force.
Frank M. Surdey, an economist with the State Department of Labor said that 40 percent of all job opportunities require only short-term on-the-job training, making it easier for applicants with limited education to obtain work.
But some economists and sociologists in Westchester say that the county is not hospitable to the workers it needs to groom the golf courses, clean the parks, serve up fast food and tend the manicured gardens of the wealthy.
"Westchester has a fairly vibrant economy that needs hourly workers, but there are few places for them to live," said Andrew A. Beveridge, assistant professor of sociology at Queens College, explaining that most of the county's working poor live in virtual ghettos in cities like Yonkers, Mount Vernon, New Rochelle and White Plains.
As a result of a shortage of affordable housing and the high cost of commuting from other areas, Westchester employers are hard pressed to find an adequate labor pool, observed Thomas J. Spitznas, an economist in Mount Vernon.
"The county has to scramble to find a labor force," Mr. Spitznas said. "I see 'Help Wanted' signs appearing everywhere."
The Marriott is one of many employers eager to hold on to its labor pool, so what the hotel chain cannot afford to offer in terms of dollars an hour, it tries to make up in terms of employee satisfaction.
Leo Nemetz, the general manager at the Marriott, said he starts with the premise that there are "jobs that need to be done, and there are people who need these jobs: In that sense, it's a good fit."
In all, the Marriott in Tarrytown employs 368 hourly workers in its restaurants and housekeeping department and at its pool.
Priding itself on being a caring employer, the chain has a variety of offerings for its hourly workers, like tuition reimbursement plans, social-service benefits and programs for fathers, like seminars on being a responsible parent. It also assists the many workers who want to learn English in a multicultural atmosphere, which Mr. Nemetz recently described as "a small United Nations."
Indeed, the dining room where Mr. Dung works is staffed with employees from South and Central America, Jamaica, Haiti, Pakistan, Mexico, Cambodia and Vietnam, among other countries. It is much the same in the housekeeping division where Magdalena Kovacs, a Slovakian immigrant, works. She spoke little English when she joined the Marriott staff at $4.25 an hour 15 years ago, having gleaned a few phrases from watching cartoons on television.
She described her fellow employees as "my second family" and said they encouraged her to rise to the position of supervisor of the linen room, a top level in her department, which pays $9.57 an hour.
While immigrants, students and older workers make up much of Westchester's work force of hourly wage earners, many of those forced off the welfare rolls in recent years have also filled those ranks. The Marriott recently instituted a Pathways to Independence program in conjunction with welfare departments throughout the country, although that program is not yet in effect in Westchester.
In the county, about 18,000 former welfare recipients have graduated from a Pride in Work program -- which helps remove people from welfare rolls by helping recipients to get jobs -- although it is not known how many actually hold jobs now, said Norman Shaw, a spokesman for the Department of Social Services.
The county government is the largest single employer of hourly workers, hiring about 700 people in the spring and summer months for a variety of jobs at golf courses and public parks.
"We couldn't do it without them," said Salvatore A. DeSantis, Commissioner of Parks, Recreation and Conservation.
Explaining that the county uses a cross-section of people from students to retirees, he said, "We generally catch people at the beginning of their work lives or at the end."
Tha Samreth, 20, a student at Berkeley College in Manhattan, is typical of hourly wage earners first entering the work force. A bespectaled business major, he manages the Derby, the fast carousel at Playland Park in Rye, earning $7.05 an hour, which he puts toward his college expenses.
With more low-end jobs available and workers in short supply, Mr. Samreth said he was able to choose among many offerings for summer employment.
But not all hourly workers have taken jobs for the money. Some, like Irwin Katz, 65, a retired chief financial officer of a mid-size manufacturing concern, said his job these days "is for love."
Mr. Katz began his work life as a caddie "when I was 10 years old." Mr. Katz, who works with Mr. Zaccagnini at Maple Moor Golf Course, added: "So after working 60 hours a week for 40 years in a high-pressure job, I decided it was time to finish my career the way I started it -- on a golf course."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Playland Park in Rye, Kristle Lohnauer, 16, working in a booth with stuffed animal prizes be-hind her, is typical of the many hourly wage earn-ers first entering the work force in the county. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Gustavo Figueroa of El Salvador, an hourly worker who is the landscape foreman at Sprainbrook Nursery in Scarsdale. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)(pg. 19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (89%); TRENDS (85%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); HOTEL STAFF (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); FAST FOOD (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); GOLF (69%); COUNTIES (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); WORK WEEK (64%); CENSUS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



8 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
U.S. Toughens Program On Unruly Air Travelers

BYLINE: By Betsy Wade

 BODY:
With complaints by airlines about disruptive passengers on the rise, Government efforts to prosecute offenders are being expanded. A test program was begun at Honolulu and Los Angeles International Airports on Nov. 1, 1996, and the Department of Transportation plans to extend the program to the three major New York airports: Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark. In mid-May, Bill Mosley, spokesman for the department, said no date for the extension had been set. In the program, the Federal Aviation Administration, part of the transportation department, works with airlines, crew members, local law agencies, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and assistant United States attorneys to see that reports of passenger interference with crew members are investigated.
In addition, Sam Podberesky, in the enforcement division of the department, said that it would offer help to the airlines in rewriting the legal language on their tickets to warn that they could refuse to carry passengers found guilty of interfering. 
 An F.A.A. report on the test of enhanced coordination was made at an international conference held by the Air Line Pilots Association. This report said that from Nov. 1 to April 30, seven United States and five foreign airlines flying into Honolulu and Los Angeles reported 24 incidents. The agency is pursuing 14 civil actions as a result.
In one case, a male passenger flying from Los Angeles to Hawaii made sexual gestures, struck a female flight attendant and seized a male attendant by the arm. The suspect pleaded guilty to assault, a misdemeanor, and, according to Ed Jones of the F.A.A. security office at Los Angeles International Airport, was sentenced to two years' probation in addition to a day already spent in jail. The judge levied no fine because the passenger was unemployed. A female passenger who slapped a pilot and bit a first officer was sentenced to a day in jail and fined $750.
Nancy McFadden, general counsel at the Department of Transportation, said that the agency was working on ways to let passengers know what they risked if they did not fulfill their responsibility to behave aboard planes -- possibly by spreading the information on the Internet. BETSY WADE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (55%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (55%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); HAWAII, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SENTENCING (89%); LITIGATION (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (86%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (86%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); PROBATION (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); LAWYERS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); VERDICTS (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



9 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 4; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
New Car Rental Rates From Rail Europe

 BODY:
For travelers who want the convenience of both train and automobile, Rail Europe, the company that sells train travel to Americans before they leave home, is offering three free days of economy-car rental from Avis to those who buy more than $1,000 worth of air travel from Rail Europe before June 30. Depending on the country selected, the incentive is worth up to $299.
In addition, Rail Europe offers a free rail day and a free car day to those who buy the Europass Drive or the Eurail Drive pass, also before June 30. The value of this incentive can be as much as $140, depending on type of car. The Europass Drive pass provides three days of unlimited first-class rail travel and two days of economy-car rental for $259 a person for two people traveling together in France, Italy, Spain, Germany and Switzerland. Up to 12 additional rail days may be bought for $42 a day for each person. Three types of cars are available: economy, compact and intermediate. Extra car days can be added, ranging from $55 to $85 a day per car. 
 The Eurail Drive pass is good in all 17 countries served by Rail Europe. It offers four days of unlimited first-class travel and three days of car rental, beginning at $345 a person for two traveling together. Up to five additional rail days may be bought for $55 a day a person, and extra car days range from $55 to $85 a day.
Prices of most regular Eurailpasses -- for train travel only -- remain unchanged from last year. For example, the one-month Eurailpass, good in first class, costs $838 a person and gives unlimited travel in 17 countries. There is at least one change from last year, however: the two-month Eurailpass is now $1,188, a 3.5 percent increase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

COMPANY: RAIL EUROPE ESPANA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TRAINS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



10 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 22; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
Imagination, Packed Up and Ready to Travel

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ZIMMER

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY

 BODY:
JUST as it's surprising how much can be stuffed inside a suitcase, it's also a revelation how much meaning can be packed into an exhibition built around suitcases. In "Art + Suitcase, Will Travel" at the Shoestring Gallery here, nine artists have opened up what may be a whole new genre.
Bill Barrell, who runs the gallery and whose work is included, says the show grew out of his desire to put together an exhibition that could travel easily. Galleries and museums are attracted by shows that can be transported economically, and Mr. Barrell said he figured that a show of works that each fit into a suitcase, as well as incorporate that suitcase, might be the ticket. The whole exhibition could be checked as luggage. 
 His co-curator, Ron Morosan, supplied some of the art-historical validation for the concept. He pointed to Marcel Duchamp's "Valise," a suitcase full of miniature reproductions of Duchamp's most famous pieces, including the urinal he titled "Fountain" and the painting "Nude Descending a Staircase." "Valise" is a concise summary of Duchamp's life work, and its portability symbolizes the ease with which art ideas travel in the modern era.
"Art + Suitcase" is strikingly animated. Nothing is content just to lie in its case; items seem to burst from their would-be confines. There is no soft-sided luggage in the show; all the suitcases are emphatically cases, rather anachronistically hard and unyielding, and thus fine foils to their lively contents. On each piece, Mr. Barrell has slapped identical, colorful travel stickers bearing the name of the exhibition and that of his gallery, in the hope that each suitcase will become plastered with various stickers and baggage tags as it travels.
His contribution is a plywood cut-out figure of a striding man who represents the Janus face of the art world. The figure, "Artist/Collector," is double-sided. The collector side is a man in a suit, with a determined look on his face. He holds a painting under his arm, and between his fingers is a fat cigar that emits plastic-foam puffs of smoke. On the flip side, the smiling artist who holds a suitcase is wearing a breezy striped shirt like the ones Picasso made his trademark. The composite figure consists of several pieces hinged together, so that it can easily come apart and be stored in the case.
The work by Mr. Morosan, who lives in Manhattan but has a studio in Jersey City, is the meditative opposite of Mr. Barrell's. "Dogs Don't Watch TV" is a partly open case lined with shredded paper, and among the contents are a white shirt and a cap bearing the likeness of a large dog of undeterminable breed. But the work's focus is several framed drawings of the dog pondering various pieces of modern art. In one of the best, the dog stares at an abstract sculpture that looks very much like his own pointy ears. The actual abstract sculpture in the show was shipped from Detroit by Bob Sestok. It's a trunk standing open and on end with several red panels bolted onto it; the resulting sculpture suggests a cardboard box with all its flaps out.
Karen Shaw from Islip, Long Island, and Nancy Cohen from Jersey City have fashioned pieces whose contents stretch far beyond the limits of their suitcases. Ms. Shaw's study in circularity, "The Great Escape," uses a hatbox equipped with wheels from a skateboard. Emerging from the box are two springlike forms: one is large and covered with gold foil; nesting in its coils is a more slender spring, reminiscent of a Slinky toy. The springs extend to a distant wall of the gallery, and the spot where they end is covered by a large, wide-brimmed straw hat. If Ms. Shaw projects insouciance, Ms. Cohen turns nostalgic with "Trousseau." Her overnight case is from her grandmother's attic, and out of it comes a long necklace that ascends to the ceiling.
Kurt Novak, who lives in Manhattan, travels to other dimensions with his daft but appealing "Transmigration of Souls." From his suitcase, lined with red satin, shoot out several Mason jars strung on taut lengths of twine. Each jar is stuffed with the sole of a different type of shoe.
The only fixed, recognizable destination alluded to in the exhibition is "Rockies From the Air," by another Manhattanite, Mimi Gross. The pitch-black inside of her case is the backdrop for many jagged yellow lines, the craggy contours of the mountains. Josie McKee's "Suitcase Boy" presents a small figure in a top hat, reminiscent of a conjuror, who stares at a small scrim painted with mountains and a bright sun. Ms. McKee, also of Manhattan, takes advantage of the firm exterior of her suitcase, which serves as a stage or platform.
But the tantalizing mystery resides in D. Capobianco's "Game." Mr. Capobianco is known for drawing rebuses, and "Game" seems to be a three-dimensional rebus. In what looks like a casual arrangement, waiting for the viewer to form a phrase from them, are, among other objects, a skull with a red ball for a nose; dice; a ladder; a battered clock face; a clown's hat and glove that might have belonged to Emmett Kelly; a rose, and a reproduction of a Matisse painting. Rather than encourage travel, this piece can transfix.
 
ART + SUITCASE, WILL TRAVEL
 Shoestring Gallery
111 First Street, Jersey City
Through June 14. Hours: Saturdays, noon to 4 P.M.; other times by appointment.
(201) 420-5018

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Game," by D. Capobianco, a three-dimensional mystery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (65%); NEW YORK, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (65%); NEW JERSEY, USA (65%); NEW YORK, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ART HISTORY (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



11 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
As Demand Grows, a Rush to Redo Large Spaces

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
WITH demand for office space growing, new owners have begun or are about to begin renovating sprawling campuses that were once used as offices for American Cyanamid and International Business Machines.
Over the last four years, the complexes had been largely shut down, their future so unclear that they were once considered as housing for the elderly. 
 The vacant or nearly vacant buildings, together totaling more than 1 million square feet, are now being renovated and put back in the race for corporate tenants.
The sites -- Cyanamid in Wayne and I.B.M. in Franklin Lakes -- are among the handful of large blocks of available space of 300,000 square feet or more in the 11-county northern and central New Jersey office market. Such blocks have dwindled as the improving economy and renewed corporate expansions of the last two years absorbed much of the space left over from the recession of the late 80's and early 90's.
At the end of 1996, there were 11 blocks of Class A space of 100,000 square feet or more, down from 22 in 1993, and the number fell to 7 as of the first quarter of this year, says Cushman & Wakefield, the national brokerage.
Developers have responded to the scarcity of space by starting eight buildings, totaling 816,000 square feet. But much of that space was preleased, leaving the same lack of larger areas of space for tenants looking for sooner rather than later, brokers said.
Cushman & Wakefield reports that some 55 corporations are searching the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut region for 100,000 square feet of space or more.
Those are the prospects the owners of the former Cyanamid and I.B.M complexes want to attract.
Called Pointview, the 194-acre Cyanamid site, off Bredan Avenue and overlooking the Pointview reservoir, was acquired for slightly less than $20 million in February by Wellsford Commercial Properties, a subsidiary of Wellsford Real Properties. The parent is a publicly traded Manhattan real estate company.
The site includes two empty, interconnecting main buildings with 548,000 square feet of space in all that will be renovated at a cost of $10 million. Two smaller buildings on nearby Valley Road that were also part of the sale will be marketed separately. Since Wellsford entered the state's market less than a year ago it has acquired 1 million square feet in six buildings, including those at the Cyanamid site.
The 200-acre former I.B.M. campus along Old Mill Road, which has yet to be renamed, was purchased in December by MSGW I. The company, a partnership of Gale & Wentworth, a real estate services and investment company based in Florham Park, and Morgan Stanley, the Manhattan-based investment banking firm, buys commercial properties using its own equity.
The partners, who paid $25 million for the 6-building, 575,000-square-foot complex, are investing $3.5 million more to upgrade it. Western World Insurance Group, which occupies 60,000 square feet, is the only tenant at the campus.
The purchase brings to 12 the number of buildings, totaling 1.6 million square feet, that the partners acquired in the last 8 months. Gale & Wentworth is also putting up two 100,000-square-foot office buildings, and is about to start a third with 175,000 square feet at its 168-acre Park Avenue at Morris County campus in Florham Park.
THE acquisitions reflect the steady appetite investors have for offices. As of May 1, there were 13 transactions, totaling 3.7 million square feet this year, up from 6, totaling 959,000 square feet in the similar period last year, according to Cushman & Wakefield. The 13 sales this year totaled $316 million, against $120 million by May 1, 1996.
Among the factors stoking the activity are the availability of capital, and the increasing demand for offices. That has reduced the vacancy rate over the last year by 3.3 percent to 15.4 percent. Average asking rents also rose, with Class A space at $23.79 a square foot, up from $22.54 a year ago.
New construction remains limited and the cost of buying an existing building averages 25 percent less than the cost of constructing a new one, brokers said.
"There is no indication that investor interest in buying properties will slow in the next 12 to 24 months," said David Csontos, managing director of the Saddle Brook office of Insignia Capital Advisors, the investment sales division of Insignia/ESG, the national commercial brokerage. "But the real question is, is there enough interest from sellers to sell."
Mark Twentyman, a vice president at the Morristown office of Galbreath/Summer, a commercial real estate firm, added that with fewer Class A buildings available investors have been, and will continue, looking for secondary buildings. "The nature of the game is staying ahead of the curve," he said.
A few investors are also buying well-situated industrial or quasi-industrial buildings. Last February, Reckson Associates Realty Corporation, a real estate investment trust in Melville, L.I., bought such a building, with 200,000 square feet, in Clifton at the intersection of Route 3 and the Garden State Parkway and will turn it into offices.
The former I.B.M. campus, near the intersection of Interstate 287 and Route 208, was closed in 1993 as part of the company's restructuring. At one time it was seriously considered as the site for a housing community for the elderly until the Borough of Franklin Lakes rejected the idea in 1995. While I.B.M. retained the complex, leasing the 60,000 square feet of space to Western World, it continued to search for a buyer.
Mark Yeager, president of Gale & Wentworth Commercial Group, said MSGW I purchased the complex because in a mature market like Bergen County, where there is no new construction, it represents the "only new supply of space." It is also typical of the "value-added" purchases the partners look for, said Mr. Yeager. He described them as well-located, but underutilized, suburban office buildings that can be purchased at or below the replacement cost and improved, adding additional value.
The preference is to lease the former I.B.M. property to fewer than five tenants, each occupying at least 100,000 square feet, because "that is where the market is," added Mr. Yeager. But, he said, the partners also have the flexibility to divide the space into units as small as 50,000 square feet.
The renovation of the complex is to begin this summer and will take two months to complete. It involves upgrading mechanical systems as well as common areas of the property like lobbies and parking lots. Asking rents will be $24 a square foot, Mr. Yeager said.
A similar path was followed at the Cyanamid site. In 1994 when American Home Products, based in Madison, acquired the company, the Wayne property was declared surplus and its "highest, best and quickest reuse was housing," said Peter D. Blanchard, senior vice president at the Garibaldi Group in Chatham. The brokerage marketed the site for American Home Products and continues to do so for Wellsford.
IN 1995, the property was targeted for housing for the elderly, but Wayne township ultimately did not approve the plan. By the time it was put back on the market in the fall of 1996 the office climate had improved and Wellsford, which outbid four other buyers, purchased the site, not far from Route 208 and Interstates 80 and 287.
Richard R. Previdi, Wellsford's chief operating officer, called the purchase "a calculated risk." He said buying at a price that is below "50 percent of the replacement cost" gives his company the opportunity to improve the property and increase its rents.
He said it was also the right time to invest given the firming market in New Jersey where large blocks of space are scarce and there are barriers to new development, including lengthy approval processes and high construction costs.
In its renovations, the company is focusing on the larger of the two buildings, which has 388,000 square feet of space. The work, to be completed this fall, includes the installation of new windows and mechanical systems.
"We are marketing the space to one user or two users max," said Mr. Blanchard, noting that creating large blocks of space will give the property a competitive edge. Rents, though not yet set, "will be below the market," he added.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pointview, above, once an American Cyanamid office complex. Left, former I.B.M. offices, with a 1.5-acre courtyard at its center. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Pointview in Wayne, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (58%); IBM (NYSE) (58%); IBM (LSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (55%); REIS (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (55%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (55%); REIS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



12 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: GOVERNMENT;
Towns Find Credit Cards Don't Always Mean Easy Money

BYLINE: By CARRIE BUDOFF

 BODY:
The credit card program sounded too good to be true for some of New Jersey's cash-strapped municipalities. Without raising taxes, they could raise revenues by earning 1 percent on every credit card purchase made by residents using their town's signature charge card.
Twenty-two municipalities jumped on board, hoping to see the same high returns as South Orange, an Essex County community of 16,390 that pioneered the program in 1994. Since then, the village has raised $60,243, all earmarked for downtown redevelopment. But most towns have been struggling to gain cardholders, let alone duplicate that success. 
 Hillsborough Township is second in revenue, but still lags far behind with $29,045.
Clifton, Paramus and Wall Township have yet to see a dollar. Glassboro, where 194 residents signed up for the borough's card, has raised only $1,142. "I wish I knew what magic South Orange was using," said JoAnne M. Shaefer, chief financial officer for Glassboro. "We would utilize that."
The secret? Show residents the money.
"If they can't see where the money is going, the card is not going to sell," said William R. Calabrese, the Mayor of South Orange.
In the early 1990's, business after business moved from the South Orange shopping district in nearby malls. The remaining stores closed early because the streets were empty by dusk. There were more vacant buildings than occupied ones along South Orange Avenue and adjoining streets.
The economic outlook in South Orange is considerably brighter today, due in large part to the money generated by the credit cards. A total of 26 businesses, including some of the newer shops, have each received a $1,400 matching grant to spruce up their facades or buy new signs. A part-time employee who picks up trash on weekends is paid $8 an hour through the credit card fund. Between 15 and 20 merchants now occupy once-vacant storefronts. There were no bakeries; now there are three. New restaurants and coffee shops have opened.
"Everytime we do something with the card, we make sure people know," said Barbara K. Sacks, chief financial officer of South Orange. "It's reawakened in people a sense of civic pride to take ownership of their downtown."
In Hillsborough, older residents wanted exercise equipment and children needed soccer goal posts. "So far, everyone is pleased with what we purchased," said Randy W. Bahr, chief financial officer. "People like to see that money coming back to the township."
Barnegat also earmarked money toward recreation, but has not seen the same high returns. Judith Capello, chief financial officer, said she thought that the problem was the interest rate of 16.9 percent. "This is not the community to do it in," she said. "It's residential. There is no industry, no business district. It is still growing. Maybe it will be better in the future."
But Ms. Capello is not complaining about the $2,800 the township has earned so far. "It is just easy revenue that we didn't have to do anything for," she said. "The banks sends out the cards. We get the check."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Charge It" lists several municipalities that have started their own credit-card programs. (Source: State of New Jersey, Division of Local Government Affairs; Department of Community Affairs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (58%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (58%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CREDIT CARDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); RETAILERS (70%); MATCHING GIFTS (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (60%); SOCCER (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



13 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS;
One Family. Two Generations. Three Feisty Funds.

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
IN the warm climate of Phoenix, a family and its family of funds are managing to do what many have not. At L. Roy Papp & Associates, two generations of the Papp family run three funds, each of which has outpaced the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index since their inceptions during the last eight years. This is no mean feat, given that the funds shun bouncing around among hot-shot growth stocks in favor of steady investments in big, old-line companies.
The flagship fund is the L. Roy Papp Stock fund, which concentrates on large-capitalization domestic stocks. It rose 16.4 percent a year, on average, from its November 1989 start-up through May 23, compared with 16.1 percent for the index. Papp America Abroad, which owns United States corporations with big overseas operations, gained an annual average of 19.8 percent from its inception in December 1991 through the same day, beating the index by a percentage point, said Morningstar Inc., the fund researchers in Chicago. And the brand-new Papp America-Pacific Rim is out of the gate with a bang, rising 12.5 percent since its March 14 start, compared with 7.4 percent for the S.& P., the Papp company said. 
 The 70-year-old patriarch, L. Roy Papp (the L stands for Lessel, an old family name), started the company in 1978. Earlier, he graduated from the Wharton School, worked his way up through the ranks of Stein Roe Farnum, the Chicago investment managers, and, in 1975, accepted an appointment by President Gerald R. Ford as head of the Asian Development Bank in Manila.
That job was part diplomacy, part banking, as he disbursed loans among 43 member countries, Mr. Papp said. The two years in Manila had a profound impact on his life and especially on his investing style, teaching him what he calls the valuable Asian attitude of taking a longer-term view.
"I was always asleep when the New York Stock Exchange was open, and I got The New York Times two weeks late," he said of his time in Manila. "But I made more money there than on LaSalle Street in Chicago."
He added, "You have to remember that this is an area that views the takeover of Hong Kong by China as the end of the Opium War started in 1850." The moral, he said, is that people who learn not to overreact to each analyst report or blip in the news end up making more money in the stock market.
Accustomed to the balmy weather of the Pacific, the Papp family returned to the United States in 1977 not to Chicago but to Phoenix, where Mr. Papp began managing money for himself and for friends. In 1981, his daughter-in-law, Rosellen C. Papp, joined him as research director at the firm and now manages the funds with him. Ms. Papp, 41, is the wife of Harry Papp, 42, who runs the firm's client accounts and is his father's right hand in the business. And Roy Papp's daughter, Victoria Cavallero, 38, is also a money manager for the firm.
Over all, the three funds account for one-quarter of the $750 million under management at the Papps' shop. Papp Stock has $67 million; America Abroad, $100 million, and America-Pacific Rim, $4 million. The balance is in separate accounts, but all money is managed using the same strategy, Mr. Papp said.
"We try to buy high-quality stocks, and, secondly, we look for growth," he said. "But we'll only pay reasonable prices." The managers aim to pay no more than the average market multiple for their stocks, forcing them to pass over some companies they would like to own.
For example, Mr. Papp said, "Coca-Cola is a wonderful company, but it's too expensive." It sells for 45 times current earnings, more than twice the market multiple.
The family also wants earnings growth rates of 12 percent or more during the next three to five years. "It's not enough that the company earns money," Rosellen Papp said. "We want growth and consistency in earnings, and good quality growth."
Earnings resulting from higher sales volume are better than those created by price increases, she said.
MOREOVER, the managers buy in areas where they feel comfortable and where they think forecasts can be accurate.
"I can't tell you where interest rates are going," Mr. Papp said, "but I can tell you exactly how many 65-year-olds there will be, and, if I can do that, I can invest in drug companies and hospitals." The largest chunks of the two older funds are in the pharmaceutical/hospital and technology areas, each accounting for 12 to 15 percent.
The managers also tend to hold stocks for a while. The annual turnover rate for the two funds averages 14 percent, compared with an industry average of 91 percent.
The Papps continue to add to the three largest holdings of the two older funds. The biggest holding in each is State Street Boston, the fiduciary and trust company with $3 trillion in managed assets and custodian funds and business in 70 countries.
"I think the globalization of the world is the biggest thing happening now, to the economy, the world and the stock market," Mr. Papp said. State Street earnings have been growing 15 percent annually for the last 15 years, he said. But it has sold at a low price "because it had a dirty little word in its title: bank," he added.
The second-largest holding in each fund is Service Corporation International, which runs the largest funeral-home chain in the world.
"Death is a relatively certain and predictable event," he said. "I never heard of anyone postponing dying because the economy is weak." The company's annual earnings growth rate has reached 20 to 25 percent in the last three years, and the stock is now expensive but still attractive long term, Mr. Papp said.
The funds' third-largest holding is Intel, which roiled the market on Friday with a pessimistic report of second-quarter earnings based largely on softening demand in Europe. The report was "disappointing, but not that important," said Mr. Papp, adding that he bought a large block of shares when the price fell on Friday morning. "We still think it's a good investment long term," he added.
Intel's earnings have been growing at an annual rate of 20 to 30 percent over the last five years. "We think they are dramatically ahead of the industry, with strong leadership and pricing control," Mr. Papp said.
Once Mr. Papp winnows out his favorite companies, he is willing to make big bets on them. Each fund holds only 25 to 30 stocks, many fewer than the average fund. "If investors want funds with 75 or 100 stocks, they ought to buy an index fund, which is what they're doing anyway," he said.
The company's prospectuses and annual reports are photocopied and stapled -- humble documents in these days of elaborate, glossy shareholder communications. The sole decoration on both is a small line sketch of Mr. Papp by the artist Leroy Neiman, a friend of the Papps from their Chicago days. A copy of a Neiman painting, "Bengal Tiger," from the Papp collection, also graces a new color brochure for the Stock fund.
The Papps own an extensive collection of Asian art, which has traveled to galleries in Berlin and Hamburg and is slated to go to Paris and London in the next two years. They specialize in paintings of the Ching Dynasty.
WITH the new America-Pacific Rim fund, that interest now extends beyond art to investing. The family started the fund because "we have the feeling that the 21st century will be Asian, just as the 20th century was North American and the 19th and 18th were European," Mr. Papp said. "We want to be where the big growth and high activity will be."
The fund's largest weightings are currently in China, the United States, Indonesia and Hong Kong.
Among its largest holdings are Air Express International, the American freight forwarders with a substantial business in the Pacific; Hong Kong Telecommunications, which Mr. Papp said should profit from China's takeover of Hong Kong, and Motorola, with large operations in China and Southeast Asia.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Family members play big roles in L. Roy Papp's company, which runs three funds. With Mr. Papp are, from left, his daughter, Victoria, a money manager; his son, Harry, in charge of client accounts, and daughter-in-law, Rosellen, the funds' co-manager. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); ATB (ASX) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (78%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (66%); 

COMPANY: PAPP, L ROY, & ASSOCIATES MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAPP, L ROY, & ASSOCIATES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (66%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MUTUAL FUNDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); BONDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); OPIUM (50%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; PAPP, L ROY; PAPP, VICTORIA; PAPP, HARRY; PAPP, ROSELLEN

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



14 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Daunting Math for Those Tax Breaks

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
REMEMBER that $500-a-child tax credit that both the Republicans and President Clinton have been promising you? Don't go spending it just yet.
The child tax credit is just one element of the tax-cutting package that Congress is about to take up. And as lawmakers begin drafting the legislation, they are facing some unforgiving arithmetic. 
 Republicans have proposed tax cuts valued at more than $200 billion over five years, with the child credit alone accounting for more than $100 billion. The White House has won a vague commitment from the Republicans to include another $35 billion in tax breaks for college expenses.
But the balanced-budget deal agreed to by both parties allows for a maximum of $135 billion in tax cuts the next five years -- $100 billion less than it would take for both sides to make good on their promises. And Congress will probably have only about $125 billion to allocate because Republicans are loath to raise other taxes to pay for the cuts.
"Every time I go through this, I come up with not enough money," said Clint Stretch, head of tax legislative affairs at Deloitte & Touche.
That means scaling back Washington's wish list. Here are some possible paths these trims might take:
 
CHILD CREDIT Both the Administration and Republicans support a tax credit of up to $500 a child. But because the White House proposal is considerably less expensive than the Republican version, it could be the model for whatever is enacted.
The Republican plan, which would cost $109 billion over five years, would provide a $500-a-child credit for all children under age 18. It would be available to joint filers with incomes up to $110,000 and to single filers up to $75,000.
The White House plan, which would cost $46 billion over five years, sets a cutoff age of 13. It makes the credit $300 a child for the first three years, rising to $500 in 2000. And it would phase out the credit, starting at an income of $60,000 and continuing until the credit disappeared at incomes of $75,000 or higher.
 
COLLEGE EXPENSES Mr. Clinton's college plan would create a $1,500 tax credit for tuition and fees for the first two years of college. It would also allow for a per-family deduction -- $5,000 a year, increasing to $10,000 a year in 1999 -- for college education or job training. The credit and the deduction could not be taken in the same year, however, and they would be phased out for joint filers with incomes between $80,000 and $100,000, and for single filers with incomes between $50,000 and $70,000.
The Republican leadership reluctantly agreed to earmark $35 billion for this program. But the measures have little support from either party in their current form, and the betting on Capitol Hill is that much of the $35 billion will be allocated elsewhere.
The Republicans have also been exploring whether they could combine their proposals to expand individual retirement accounts with a savings vehicle for college expenses that would satisfy Mr. Clinton.
 
ESTATE TAXES A coalition of small-business owners and farmers is pushing for reduction or even elimination of the Federal estate tax.
But there is almost no prospect of outright repeal, and even small-business lobbyists acknowledge that the best they might get is a doubling, to $1.2 million, of the value of an estate that is exempted from Federal taxation. Republicans and some Democrats would like to include a provision raising the exemption for family-owned businesses and farms to $10 million, but it is unclear whether there is enough money or political support to push it through.
 
I.R.A.'s The White House and the Republican leadership both support expanding I.R.A.'s, but the Republican plan is probably too expensive.
Under current law, contributions to an I.R.A. for people whose employers offer a pension plan are fully tax deductible for single taxpayers with incomes up to $25,000. (For couples, full deductibility is phased out starting at $40,000.) The Republican plan would eliminate the income limit over four years, allow penalty-free withdrawals for certain uses, including the costs of higher education, and make it easier for nonworking spouses to make deductible I.R.A. contributions. The Republican plan would cost $31.2 billion over five years.
The Administration plan would double the income limits over the next three years. It would also readjust the income limits and the $2,000 limit on deductible contributions each year to account for inflation, and would allow penalty-free withdrawals for certain expenses. The Administration's plan would cost only $5.5 billion over five years.
 
CAPITAL GAINS Senate Republicans proposed earlier this year to cut the top rate on capital gains for individuals to 19.8 percent from 28 percent and to allow gains to be indexed for inflation starting this year. Their proposals, which would cost $33 billion over five years, will almost certainly have to be scaled back.
Analysts said Congressional tax writers could trim the cost of the Republican plan by more than $7 billion by dropping a proposed reduction in the corporate capital gains rate. But they said Republicans would probably have to go further and drop their plans for indexing gains to inflation, while phasing in the reduced top rate for individuals or not bringing it down as far as 19.8 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (83%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX CREDITS TAX LAW (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (75%); TUITION FEES (74%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



15 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
At Morton, Much More Than a Dash of Cash

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRUSH 

 BODY:
WHEN it rains it pours." Of all of corporate America's slogans, the one that adorns the blue Morton salt box, complete with the picture of a little girl holding an umbrella and inadvertently spilling salt, is one of the most famous.
But Morton International Inc., which has produced the table salt ever since its founding in Chicago in 1848, makes a lot more than that. It sells glues for food packaging, durable finishes for furniture and sodium borohydride, a substance used to bleach newspaper. So-called specialty chemicals like these account for about two-thirds of Morton's profits. And much of its salt -- which accounts for the other third -- is used not in the kitchen but for snow and ice control, animal consumption and industrial production. 
 Some experts say this diverse company is a good investment. Although its stock is not cheap, Morton is a cash-rich cost-cutter, they say, that is divesting itself of products unrelated to its major lines and that has a history of stock buybacks and other investor-friendly moves.
A month ago, for example, Morton spun off its air bag division into a joint venture with Sweden's Autoliv A.B. The division was successful, but it had no synergies with other Morton businesses.
Then comes cost-cutting in the company's specialty chemicals business. "Morton has been growing through acquisition, but it never really went back and rationalized its plant infrastructure," said Mark R. Gulley, an analyst with Morgan Stanley. Now it is starting to do so, closing down less efficient plants, including a packaging-glue operation in Stamford, Conn., and discontinuing less profitable products.
Like some other fund managers, John Forelli of Independence Investment Associates in Boston says such changes can bolster Morton's profit margins in chemicals from their current level of 15.5 percent, to 18 percent to 20 percent over the next three years. Given chemical sales of $1.7 billion a year -- salt revenues are about $600 million -- these efforts may have the biggest impact on Morton's bottom line.
But Morton, based in Chicago, also hopes to widen profit margins at Salins du Midi, a big French salt producer that it acquired in March for $275 million.
Morton is an old pro at fattening salt profits by trimming costs. From 1985 to 1996, it raised margins at its already efficient American salt operations to 21 percent from 16.5 percent, so it should have little trouble increasing Salins du Midi profit margins to a goal of 14 percent, from the current 7 percent, in five years.
After the planned cost trims at Salins, however, earnings growth in Morton's salt division is likely to be fairly limited. Earnings will rise only in line with sales. Specifically, profits from industrial salt will rise if the general economy grows, while table salt earnings will increase with the population. Profits from salt used for snow and ice control, of course, depends on the weather.
But reaching high efficiency does not mean that the salt division cannot help Morton's share price, said Jim Weir, director of research at Highland Capital Management in Memphis, which owns Morton shares in its First Funds Growth and Income fund. The salt division generates a great deal of cash that can be redeployed elsewhere, given that Morton is more or less free of debt, he said. Indeed, money from salt helped Morton to develop its air bag operation, which brought in $750 million tax free from Autoliv.
MOREOVER, Morton expects to generate $160 million in uncommitted cash in 1997. It hopes to use that money, plus some proceeds from the sale of the air bag division, to buy other companies to build its chemicals business. Although many of Morton's competitors have the same idea and thus all face a seller's market, Mr. Weir and Mr. Forelli expect that Morton will still make attractive buys.
In addition, Morton plans to use some of the Autoliv money for a share buyback, which usually pushes up a stock price. The company announced the buyback of 10 million shares in April, and Mr. Gulley would not be surprised if another buyback followed.
Indeed, Morton is known for being nice to investors, said Steve Markusen, portfolio manager of the Piper Growth fund, which owns Morton shares. He cited a "history of paying attention to shareholder value" as another attraction of the stock.
All told, Morton's plans to cut costs, buy chemical companies and repurchase shares could increase earnings by 14 percent a year for the next three years, Mr. Gulley predicted. Other Morton watchers agree, and that raises the stock's biggest downside: it is no bargain.
At Friday's closing price of $32.25, Morton stock was trading at 19 times its estimated earnings per share for the next four quarters, according to Charles Hill, director of research at First Call. That multiple seems to be high relative to other specialty-chemical stocks, although such comparisons can be misleading because of differences in company products. The stocks included in the Dow Jones specialty chemical index, for example, trade at an average of 16.4 times estimated earnings for the next four quarters, Mr. Hill said.
Peter Doyle, an analyst with the Spin-Off Report, a research service in New York, said, "If you are looking for great value in the marketplace, I wouldn't recommend this company," but he still judges Morton to be a "high quality" outfit.
Despite its stock price, Morton may be worth watching. Several factors can depress the price and make it an attractive buy while not tarnishing long-term prospects. The price could fall if the cost of its raw materials rose temporarily, for example, or if the dollar strengthened and reduced overseas earnings.
Mr. Markusen and some other experts say a dip to $30 or so would make Morton stock attractive.
Given the price appreciation that some analysts predict, many investors may not want to wait for any dip. Although other analysts have more modest expectations, Mr. Markusen thinks the stock may hit $40 in the next 18 months. At the current price of $32.25, that would mean an annual appreciation of 16 percent.
Mr. Doyle and other analysts also see at least the possibility that Morton will spin off its salt division, which would generate cash for financing buybacks and buying more specialty chemical companies -- and attract the attention of Wall Streeters who reward companies that spin off unrelated units.
"There is not a lot of overlap between the salt business and specialty chemicals," said Mr. Doyle. Citing the spinoff of the air bag division and of Morton Thiokol, an engineering unit Morton sold years ago, Mr. Doyle also argued that "management has a record of doing this."
But other analysts say Morton wants to keep its cash cow. And the company itself, citing its long history as a seller of salt, discourages thoughts of another spinoff.
In any case, as investors ponder this and other questions that surround this attractive but relatively costly stock, they may find themselves idly wondering about the meaning of its signature slogan, "When it rains it pours." Does it just describe the little girl who is accidentally spilling salt on the ground as she walks in the rain?
No, Morton says. It also alludes to a major, turn-of-the-century innovation: the addition of a substance, calcium silicate, to salt to keep it from clogging during rain or other conditions of high humidity.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Rich Seasoning" shows the April and May daily closes of Morton International. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311942 SPICE & EXTRACT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORTON INTERNATIONAL INC MORTON INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); INDEPENDENCE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATES INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORTON INTERNATIONAL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; SALT MISC BORON COMPOUNDS MFG (90%); INORGANIC CHEMICALS MFG (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); BLEACHING AGENTS (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (75%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); FOOD PACKAGING (71%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); JOINT VENTURES (51%); 

PERSON: BRUSH, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



16 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3416 words

HEADLINE: Of All That He Sells, He Sells Himself Best

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

DATELINE: WEST WITTERING, England

 BODY:
ON a recent blustery Saturday, a scruffy-looking Englishman and a small group of guests climbed aboard two giant hot-air balloons in the southern English countryside. As the winds pushed the balloons above fields of muted green, the host waved from the gondola to throngs of spectators below.
An hour later, the balloons touched down with a thud near an old graveyard. The balloonist stepped out -- to be mobbed by children pleading for autographs. 
 A rock star? A sports hero? No, it was Richard Branson, the billionaire owner of Virgin Atlantic Airways and one of the few entrepreneurs in the world famous enough to leave crowds gaping. And Mr. Branson, who stuttered from shyness as a young man, gloried in the adulation.
In a nation that disdains ostentation and prides itself on its stiff-upper-lip reserve, Mr. Branson is an anomaly. The 46-year-old high-school dropout is practically a one-man publicity circus, embarking on headline-grabbing balloon trips, hamming it up in wedding dresses and other costumes, and emblazoning the Virgin name on everything from planes and trains to blue jeans and lipstick to promote his businesses. And far from disapproving, his fellow Britons love him for his grandstanding.
When the BBC Radio asked 1,200 people who they thought would be most qualified to rewrite the Ten Commandments, Mr. Branson came in fourth, after Mother Teresa, the Pope and the Archbishop of Canterbury. And an Evening Standard survey on who ought to be mayor, if London had one, made him the winner by a landslide.
What the public rarely glimpses underneath all the bonhomie is a man who watches every penny. Even his famous balloon trips are paid for mostly by others. And he knows how to turn failure to his advantage, gaining invaluable publicity, for example, even when the balloon that is supposed to carry him around the globe crashes ingloriously in some remote desert.
Clearly, Mr. Branson has found the right mix of bravura and boyish effusiveness to charm his way into British hearts. Now, he is using his hard-won celebrity to cajole his way into their investment portfolios. Two years ago, he began an index fund intended to track the Financial Times All-Share Index of about 900 stocks. Indexing, a money-management approach that eliminates the need for stock picking and reduces management costs, appealed to the miser in him.
Though similar index funds were already on the market, "the existing funds were not properly promoted," he said in an interview at his sister's home here, on the southern English coast. He was convinced that the fees and sales charges of the existing funds were too high and that the Virgin name would attract a new group of investors.
"I thought I could set up a business and bring other people into an area they did not know anything about," said Mr. Branson, ever the marketer.
And so he has. Small investors, in particular, have been drawn to his no-load financial company, called Virgin Direct, which handled $1.3 billion in two funds at last count. Modest even in the British market, Virgin Direct would be dwarfed by the Vanguard Index 500 fund, which has more than $30 billion in assets and has been the fastest-growing fund in the United States.
Paul Barnes, a spokesman for Micropal, a fund tracking company in London, said that having established itself as a serious competitor in the financial arena, Virgin is "now moving into pensions, insurance and other products." And with Mr. Branson at the helm, is anyone betting that Virgin might not swell someday into a major financial services company?
Except for relatively small personal investments in the index funds, Mr. Branson says, he avoids the stock market because he thinks he can do better plowing his own money back into his own Virgin empire, which now counts more than 200 companies with annual sales of about $2.5 billion, according to The Sunday Times of London. Only once did he consider buying individual shares -- in oil companies, "so that if oil prices went up, it would compensate us for the use of oil in our planes." -- but in the end, he thought better of the idea.
For the most part, Mr. Branson sidesteps questions about his finances, citing a desire for privacy. Although he doesn't have a conventional investment portfolio, he may not need one, since 99 percent of his wealth is tied up in his companies.
After selling one of his most prized possessions, Virgin Records, to Thorn EMI for $1 billion in 1992, Mr. Branson placed a chunk of the proceeds with money managers, but quickly became dissatisfied with the results and the hefty fees.
"If you can give me a list of people who have outperformed the stock market over 20 years, obviously I will consider them," he said. "On paper, it actually looks like they have done well. But then you take their charges into account. They will never mention there is a big spread off the top that takes 5 percent straight away. There is a management fee that they charge every time they buy and sell the shares, and they can buy and sell them as many times as they want through the year, and so on and so on."
SO, with Ron Gormley, a former leveraged-buyout specialist, Mr. Branson started the Virgin U.K. Index Tracking fund in May 1995 and put $15 million of his own money into it. Britons have followed his lead, making the fund the second-biggest index-style fund in Britain. But are they embracing its lack of sales commissions, or flocking to Mr. Branson, who promoted the direct-sales company by appearing in television commercials?
Ann McMeehan, a spokeswoman for the Association of Unit Trusts and Investment Funds in England, favors the latter interpretation. "Richard Branson is the antithesis of the City gent," Ms. McMeehan said. "He is not someone one would typically associate with things financial, so he breaks the mold. He is attractive to the man in the street."
Notably, Virgin Direct is farming out the money management to experts. What it is doing is marketing and selling.
The 1984 start-up of Virgin Atlantic followed a similar approach. Mr. Branson began the airline out of exasperation with the boredom of traveling and with a conviction that he could compete by offering to entertain passengers. "If I am invited for the weekend, I don't want to sit facing a blank wall for 10 hours and have a bit of chicken dumped in my lap," Mr. Branson said. By the same token, he reasoned, travelers would stampede to an airline that offered relief from the tedium of sitting in a cramped seat with only one film during the flight. Initially, the only lure was a lower fare. But by 1988, the airline provided economy-class travelers individual video machines. A year later, business-class passengers got free manicures and massages.
Mr. Branson's flamboyant persona lets him delve into activities that more conservative investors might shy away from. In 1981, he bought London's biggest gay nightclub, Heaven, for $750,000, and it remains popular to this day.
Often, he says, he gets ideas for new businesses from ordinary people. After a flight attendant mentioned on a London-to-New York flight what trouble she had shopping for her wedding, he decided to open a one-stop mart called Virgin Brides.
Ever the showman, Mr. Branson appeared at the opening of his first store in London last year dressed as a bride, a stunt that was splashed across the front page of several London newspapers.
Some people say Mr. Branson's antics sometimes get out of control. A legendary party animal, he has been known to pour ice down a woman's back, lift her up and turn her upside-down -- sometimes against her will. After he tried that with Ivana Trump, he recalled, she spent the rest of the evening chatting up his rival, Lord King, the chairman of British Airways. In one lawsuit, filed last year in Federal District Court in New York City, a former employee, Elizabeth Hlinko, accused Mr. Branson of fondling her during a press party in 1994 at his home.
Mr. Branson, who has been married to his second wife, Joan Templeman, since 1989, denies the accusation. "Hopefully, the charges will get chucked out and never get to court," he said.
WHETHER or not he goes to extremes, Mr. Branson cultivates the image of a fun-loving man-about-town, not a businessman focused on building his fortune. To hear him tell it, getting rich is not the point of amassing businesses. Having fun, calling his own shots and pursuing his own dreams is.
"I never started out to make money," he said as his 12-year-old son, Sam, and several nephews donned wet suits and waded into the ice-cold Atlantic outside his sister's home. "I have gone into projects out of a personal belief that we can so do something special that we can be proud of. Successful entrepreneurs never cost out a project. They have a vision that something is not being done properly and they can do it better."
The relaxed image that Mr. Branson tries to project is reflected in his clothing. When not wearing a long, white satin dress, he appears in casual attire even for major business events. For example, he wore a casual shirt and sport jacket for a debate on Cable News Network with an American Airlines executive. In a lively performance that contrasted with the tedium of many of his prepared speeches, Mr. Branson clearly got the best of his opponent in arguing against a route-sharing plan of American and British Airways.
The sartorial simplicity is a carefully calculated effort to convey the image of the common man who just happens to be worth $2.76 billion. In a country where being chauffeured in a Jaguar is de rigueur among the very rich, Mr. Branson zips around London in taxis because, he says, "I don't like to keep people waiting," not even chauffeurs. (He recently made an exception for a reporter, keeping her waiting for two hours while he attended to an unforeseen task.)
To be sure, Mr. Branson's fondness for taxis might also be a manifestation of his frugality. For years, he lived relatively inexpensively on a houseboat in the Thames. Only when his growing family -- in addition to Sam, he has a daughter Holly, 15 -- put pressure on him to find ampler quarters did he move to a town house in the fashionable Holland Park section of London.
Initially, his home served as company headquarters, but Virgin's offices have since moved to an adjacent building, where he works in an informal office that looks more like a living room than a corporate lair, and where Sam sometimes sprawls out on school holidays.
Despite his free-wheeling style, Mr. Branson is far less impulsive about taking risks than it may seem. In starting Virgin Airways 13 years ago, he was keenly aware that a predecessor in the upstart airline business, Freddie Laker, had overextended himself financially. So he leased a single plane from Boeing in a deal that allowed him to walk away from the venture if it faltered.
He even managed to lay off much of the cost of his daredevil attempts to cross the Atlantic and the Pacific with balloons, adventures that gave his Virgin empire millions of dollars' worth of free publicity.
"Generally speaking, because the profiles of the trips are so high, we can find sponsors if we want them," he said. "We can sell the space on the balloons for some millions of dollars more than it actually costs us." Benfields, a large British insurance company, for example, helped to underwrite the last voyage.
To be sure, Mr. Branson likes to affect an absent-minded disregard for money. He often goes out without cash in his pocket. "Well, I don't get the weekly paycheck and stuff the money in my pocket," he said. And he pointedly refused to consider a prenuptial agreement to protect his fortune when he married Joan. "It cheapens the relationship," he said primly.
Besides, the rich in Britain are at little risk of losing half their fortunes to former spouses, who usually are awarded only "enough to live a very comfortable life," he said.
Of course, Mr. Branson has had his share of rich men's toys. Take his private island, Necker, a jewel in the British Virgin Islands. He stumbled into the purchase of the 76-acre tract at the age of 23, when, on vacation in New York, he decided to go to the Caribbean.
"In order to make sure we had a good time," he recalled, "I rang up a travel agent," who showed Mr. Branson two private islands. Necker, with a price tag of $3 million, enchanted him. He tracked down the owner in London and learned that he was desperate for a quick sale. Mr. Branson offered $300,000 in cash, and the deal was closed.
When the island is not occupied by him, his family or his business associates, he rents out his compound, which sleeps 24 and has a Cordon Bleu chef, for $16,000 a day. The list of occupants has included Steven Spielberg, Kevin Costner and Phil Collins.
ACTUALLY, his business acumen dates to his youth, when he dropped out of school at age 16 to start, of all things, a magazine called Student. That set him on a course that deviated from the ambition of his father, a lawyer, who wanted him to follow in his footsteps. But it was in keeping with the aspirations of his mother, Eve, who early on had gone to pains to develop an independent spirit in him. When Richard was just 5, fearful that "kids were getting a bit soft and feeble," she dropped her son in a field and told him to make his way to their country home two miles away. "We thought we had lost him," his mother recalled, "but he found his way to a farmhouse and they called us."
Mrs. Branson inherited her feisty spirit from her mother, Dorothy Flindt, now a 99-year-old great-grandmother who recently boasted of having two boyfriends and who made the Guinness Book of World Records by getting a hole-in-one in golf when she was 91.
Mrs. Branson herself is a skilled tennis player. "I like to go on beating my son for as long as I can," she added. Even today, though she has a bit of money in the Virgin index fund, she says she tries not to pester her son for financial advice, preferring to do things her own way.
Richard Branson, in turn, appears to have inherited his drive from his mother and his sociability from his father, Edward. The elder Mr. Branson remembers how, as a barrister, his court victories were usually bittersweet. "I liked winning, but I felt sorry for the people who were defeated," he said.
RICHARD BRANSON'S first venture in journalism, Student magazine, was a failure. Setting himself up in the basement of a town house, he produced a magazine with a liberal bent, even talking Jean-Paul Sartre, the famous French philosopher and social activist, into writing an article.
Though the magazine folded, he parlayed it into a mail-order record business. He and his friends toyed with the idea of calling the venture Slipped Disc, finally opting for Virgin because they were such novices, and also because virgins, like money, were in such short supply in the basement occupied by the fledgling business.
Over the next 14 years, he built Virgin into one of Britain's best-known independent record labels. But by 1983, he wanted to diversify, and was receptive when a lawyer he did not know presented a proposal for a new airline that would use the airport landing slots that were emptied by the collapse of Laker Airways. Mr. Branson called on Mr. Laker (who only last year started another airline) and received a bit of advice he took to heart. "If you are taking on British Airways and Pan Am and they have massive ad budgets, you have to use yourself to get free advertising,' Mr. Branson recalled Mr. Laker as saying.
So, Mr. Branson said, "the following week, when the inaugural flight took off, I dressed up in a captain's outfit."
"One could say that I have taken Freddy's advice with a bit of a vengeance," he added, alluding to his romance with costumes. He has dressed up as everything from a pilot to a pirate.
But perhaps his most effective guise is the one he wears every day: That of the average bloke taking on the establishment. He plays that role to the hilt in his battles with giant British Airways, which he accused of attempting to damage his business by stealing secrets from Virgin's computers. Mr. Branson took British Airways to court and, in a sweet victory, won a $945,000 settlement and an unusual public apology from Lord King -- a public-relations coup worth its weight in gold.
To create a war chest for the battle with British Air, he made the $1 billion sale of his record company to Thorn EMI. He was then 42, but it was the first time he felt financially secure. "We knew that we had no debts," he recalled. "We were financially strong and it would be impossible to see everything disappearing."
That fear of watching his empire go up in smoke had gnawed at him since his debut as an entrepreneur. He had come to realize, he said, how much circumstance and even blind luck can play in business. "There is a very thin line between success and failure," he said. "If you go into business without any financial backing, and you build a business from scratch, the word 'survival' is the key word.
"In our business, from the age of 15 to the age of 37 or 38, we could have gone either way," he said, citing the Persian Gulf war, bad times for airlines and the specter of entrepreneurs like Rupert Murdoch almost going under.
Mr. Branson does not dispute an estimate by The Sunday Times that his empire is worth $2.76 billion, but he does not confirm it, either, and it is impossible to verify because all his companies are private. He briefly took Virgin Records public in 1986, selling 30 percent for $324 million, but the stock did poorly and he bought it back. Would he go public again? "People kill for their freedom," he answered.
He is, however, happy to take money from investment partners, so long as the product carries the Virgin name. And now that he has made Virgin a household name not only in Britain, but in Japan and the United States, people are clamoring to do deals with him.
"We can get people to invest in our business, to practically fund any venture we do," Mr. Branson said. "We don't actually really have to put money into our own new ventures. Others will do it for us."
OF all the reasons he gives for his business success, lofting himself into the heavens in a wicker basket attached to a giant air bag might seem the biggest stretch. But Mr. Branson says his ballooning escapades have honed his managerial skills as nothing else could.
"There are decisions that can determine whether you come home or not," he said. "Do you land in the Pacific? Do you carry on flying as far as you can? Do you land near America? Do you parachute out? Do you carry on through the night into Algeria, where you know you are going to land in guerrilla-infested territory?"
Certainly, his ballooning experiences have ranged from triumph to near death. In 1987, he and Per Lindstrand, one of the world's most famous balloonists, made the first crossing of the Atlantic in a hot-air balloon.
In 1990, the men set up base in Miyakonojo, Japan, poised to cross the Pacific. While they were waiting for the right winds, another balloonist chose to go ahead and was killed, just hours out. The Branson-Lindstrand team managed a successful crossing, despite an unplanned landing in northern Canada.
After that, lectured by his parents and wife about the perils of his hobby, Mr. Branson gave up ballooning for a while. But driven by his desire to circumnavigate the world, his leave-taking didn't last long.
"I suppose I got itchy feet," he said. "I didn't want to be left behind. I think that was the answer: Per would have done it first."
So, last year, the two men got together again and planned a round-the-world flight on a new balloon named the Virgin Challenger. Big enough to contain seven jumbo jetliners, the balloon was pumped up with an experimental mixture of helium and hot air and had several innovative safety features.
Its maiden flight in January ended in failure. Twelve hours after the two adventurers took off from Marrakesh, Morocco, the Virgin Challenger began leaking, and soon was hurtling downward at 2,000 feet a minute before finally landing in the Sahara Desert in Algeria.
No matter. Already, Mr. Branson and Mr. Lindstrand are planning another try next winter. "A lot of people would love to be doing the adventures we do," Mr. Branson said. But, because they can't, he added, "they can sort of enjoy those adventures with us, through us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Branson, ever the marketer, prepared to raise his company's colors recently on a short balloon flight in southern England. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Richard Branson kicked up his heels over Virgin Vodka . . . hit the bars in Alcatraz after parasailing into San Francisco . . . and took his casual attire to new extremes in South Africa.; Mr. Branson went to Washington, promoting service to London . . . hung out in Berlin during the opening of a Virgin megastore . . . and showed a silken capitalist touch on a visit to Hong Kong. (Photographs from Gamma Liaison)(pg. 11)
 
Charts: "Branson's Empire"
Entertainment -- in many forms -- is the driving force behind Richard Branson's business strategy. Chart lists Branson's varied business ventures. (Sources: Virgin Group; Hoover's Handbook)(pg. 11)
 
"A Fund for Commoners"
By keeping expenses and charges low, the Virgin U.K. Index U.K. Tracking Fund, which aims to match the performance of the Financial Times All-Share Index of about 900 stocks, has become the second-biggest index fund in Britain. It had $833 million in assets at the end of March. Chart tracks fund's performance. (pg. 11)
 
"The Richest Britons" lists the top 10, excluding the royal family. (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (74%); GERMANY (74%); HONG KONG (59%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (74%); 

COMPANY: VIRGIN COMPANIES; VIRGIN DIRECT (CO) VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (84%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: VIRGIN COMPANIES; VIRGIN DIRECT (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (74%); GERMANY (74%); HONG KONG (59%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (74%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING CELEBRITIES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); INDEX FUNDS (84%); STOCK INDEXES (84%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); SPORTS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); POP & ROCK (70%); RELIGION (70%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); BONDS (60%); ATHLETES (56%); 

PERSON: BRANSON, RICHARD; FABRIKANT, GERALDINE RICHARD BRANSON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



17 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3116 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
They're Off and Running, but With Whose Money?

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

DATELINE: VERNON, N.Y.

 BODY:
GWEN BENNETT grew up around harness racing. Her father was a horseman, so were her customers at a local restaurant, and so was the man she married; they had their first date at the Vernon Downs race track, and watched his horse win.
So when she found out the track had serious financial problems, she says, she just had to get involved in trying to oust the old management and bring in new blood with new ideas. "I'm doing this because I care about my community," she said last week. 
 But what strikes her supporters as spunk looks like monumental chutzpah to thousands of people from faraway Miami to nearby Syracuse who are watching the battle over the track with outrage.
That's because Gwen Bennett is the wife of Patrick Bennett, whom regulators accused a year ago of running the biggest pyramid scheme in American history through the companies known as the Bennett Group of Syracuse. When the companies collapsed, they owed about $1 billion to banks and to 12,000 individuals who invested in leases on office equipment, according to the bankruptcy trustee handling the case; roughly $600 million is missing.
Among the missing money is about $4 million that Pat Bennett used to buy a stake in the small public company that owns the race track, the stake that Gwen is now using to try to take control, according to the trustee, Richard C. Breeden, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. He was appointed by the bankruptcy court with the backing of his former agency.
Mr. Breeden is trying to stop the Bennetts from gaining control of the track. "That would create a lot of new victims of this whole saga, and there are victims enough," he said. As long as the Bennetts are involved, he argues, the track cannot raise money and is in danger of closing, perhaps costing hundreds of jobs in an area where work is scarce.
But Mr. Breeden is not getting much help from state or Federal regulators, the bankruptcy court, or even the Justice Department, which has taken no further action against Mr. Bennett after filing a criminal complaint a year ago charging him with perjury and securities fraud.
Mr. Bennett has denied the charges, but has refused to comment further. His lawyers say that if mistakes were made, Mr. Bennett never meant to do anything wrong. He remains here in Vernon, a village of some 1,200 people, living in his family's elegant gray-and-white house, chatting with neighbors at the post office -- and talking with Gwen about her campaign to take over Vernon Downs.
The track fight is rubbing salt in the wounds of the investors, many of them elderly, who have lost big sums in what they were told was a conservative investment. At a meeting of investors last month in Newark, a crowd of about 400 reserved its strongest applause for one of their fellows, Morton B. Kushner of Huntingdon Valley, Pa. "It's been almost a year and Patrick Bennett is still walking around free, still doing business," Mr. Kushner said angrily. "If a criminal stole $100 from a store, he'd be locked up in jail!"
The Bennett situation shows how widespread and unexpected the consequences of a huge financial collapse can be, and how they can seem to overwhelm the system that is supposed to deal with them. The S.E.C. says the equipment leasing was a fraud and filed a civil case against the Bennett companies last year. But the S.E.C. has no criminal powers and little control over people who, like the Bennetts, are not technically in the securities business.
The United States Attorney's office in Manhattan says it has been conducting an active investigation, but the lawyer handling the case was, until March, busy prosecuting another matter. Securities lawyers say the case is finally heating up again, and there may be legal developments soon.
The Bankruptcy Court in Utica, the site of most of the Bennett litigation, has been swamped with hundreds of lawsuits as people fight over what is left of the Bennett empire. The bankruptcy is unusually complicated because of "the allegations of fraud, questions of how to divide the pie and questions of who owes the estate money and assets," said Harry M. Gutfleish, a lawyer representing creditors. Adding to the confusion is the fact that Bennett litigation is taking place all over the state.
Investors say that dealing with the aftermath of the Bennett collapse has left them feeling angry, embarrassed, betrayed and neglected.
One investor from New York, a freelance writer in his 60's who spoke on the condition that his name not appear in print, said he had neglected his work for the last year to cope with the Bennett mess. "To lose the money is bad enough, terrible," he said, "but then to chase after all the paperwork, try to network with others to try to find out what was going on -- it took up an enormous amount of time that could have gone to business, or just to enjoying life."
LARGE-SCALE pyramid schemes, in which early investors are paid off by later victims' money, appear to be on the rise. Investors lost almost $500 million investing in bonds and notes sold by Towers Financial, a failed bill-collection agency run by Steven Hoffenberg, who was briefly publisher of The New York Post. Mr. Hoffenberg was recently sentenced to 20 years in prison.
In other recent cases, the S.E.C. has accused the Better Life Club of Washington of preying on low- and middle-income investors who lost about $50 million, and regulators have called the First Interregional companies in New Jersey the "Baby Bennett" case because it, too, involved equipment leases.
Ponzi schemes do not generally hurt big insurance companies, banks, government agencies or even the overall securities markets. The victims are usually individuals, and they often suffer huge losses. "When pyramid schemes collapse, the people at the bottom tend to lose everything," Mr. Breeden said. "That is much closer to a street robbery" than securities fraud, he added.
And there are usually many secondary victims: children for whom there will be no college; spouses for whom there will be no retirement; communities, charities and legitimate businesses whose dreams were fed with money that may have been stolen.
There were several such businesses in and around Syracuse, an economically depressed area for which the Bennetts once served as economic engine and beacon of hope. Among them was Vernon Downs.
The race track, built deep in the countryside between Syracuse and Utica in 1953 when harness racing was a booming sport, is a pale gray oval three-quarters of a mile around, flanked on one side by gentle green hills and on the other by a sprawl of low white buildings that include an enclosed grandstand, a clubhouse and offices. Below these buildings is a series of stables that can hold almost 1,000 horses.
During the 1960's and early 1970's, Vernon Downs boomed; on special nights, more than 10,000 people would show up and bet half a million dollars or more, and even an average night would find a crowd of well over 4,000.
"I grew up here when it was lot of fun to come in and go to work," said Frank O. White Jr., 42, a soft-spoken and articulate man with light-brown hair and wire-rim glasses. Like his father before him, Mr. White is chief executive of Vernon Downs and the small public company that owns it, Mid-State Raceway Inc., whose stock is traded in the "pink sheets" listing of over-the-counter stocks; he has never worked anywhere else.
But by 1980, Vernon Downs was in decline, as were all the harness racing tracks in the state. Gamblers were increasingly turning to the state-run lottery and to off-track betting parlors, which return relatively little money to the tracks. Attendance at the tracks plunged, and so did the amount of money bet.
Fortunately, the situation was not dire, Mr. White said last week in his cozy office overlooking the track. Vernon Downs had no debt and had invested money during its glory days, so that investment earnings helped cover operating shortfalls.
In 1992, when Mr. Bennett bought a controlling interest in the track from three of the founders, including his father, "Pat was like the salvation, the answer to getting the industry going again," Mr. White said. "He was very aggressive, a good marketer, and he knew a lot of people in the industry."
He was also a high roller by Vernon Downs standards; Mr. White said that anyone who bet $3,000 a night was a big bettor at his track.
At first, the new marketing plans all seemed to be working. Mr. Bennett also came up with the idea of building a nice hotel on the track's grounds, a plan that became even more attractive when the Oneida Indian Nation announced it was opening a casino less than five miles away.
The track leased land to a partnership controlled by Pat and Gwen Bennett. The Bennett companies paid to build the Comfort Suites hotel, which opened in 1994 and was the first hotel to feature betting not just in the lobby but in the rooms as well, Mr. White said.
Mr. Bennett also promoted the idea of corporate sponsors for special races. Such sponsorships eventually brought hundreds of thousands of dollars into the track's coffers. What Mr. White did not realize at the time, he said, was that the sponsors were affiliates of Mr. Bennett's.
Looking back, Mr. White said, perhaps he should have realized something was wrong. "There were always rumors about where all this money was coming from -- comments were made, but you didn't really take credence in them," he recalled. "After all, they were the business of the year in Syracuse in 1994, one of the fastest-growing companies in America."
But according to a lawsuit filed in the Utica Bankruptcy Court by Mr. Breeden, the money Mr. Bennett used to buy the race track stock was not really his; it was taken from various Bennett company accounts, the suit said. And almost everything owned by various members of the Bennett clan -- including Pat's brother Michael and his parents, Edmund and Kathleen -- was paid for with company money but ended up in the family's name, the trustee says. Among the family's onetime possessions were yachts, a gambling riverboat called the Speculator and a series of hotels and motels.
BY late 1995, the Bennett empire was starting to crack. The S.E.C. had intensified its investigation of the company, which had been selling hundreds of millions of dollars of unregistered securities that the company said were backed by leases. Some of these leases were fakes, Mr. Breeden said; others were real, but were sold to as many as seven different investors.
Even worse, the pyramid had gotten so big that it was imploding, Mr. Breeden said. Although the company was getting $13 million a month in lease payments, it owed investors $30 million a month. The only way to cover the shortfall, he said, was to sell a lot more phony securities or to raise cash by selling assets. Patrick Bennett dumped stock investments and other holdings at cut-rate prices, the trustee contends.
His Vernon Downs holdings may have presented a particular problem because, if he were to be convicted of a crime, state gaming regulators would probably force him out of the business.
In December, Mr. Bennett transferred his Vernon Downs stock to a company controlled by his wife; she signed a $1.9 million promissory note. Mr. Bennett then sold that note to a longtime business associate from Long Island named Neil Wager.
Three months later, the S.E.C. filed a civil suit against the Bennett companies, the United States Attorney in Manhattan charged Mr. Bennett with securities fraud and perjury and the Bennett companies sought bankruptcy protection in Utica.
It was not until the end of April that Mr. Bennett met with Mr. White to tell him that the stock had been transferred to his wife. Though Mr. White knew Mrs. Bennett -- "we talked, passed pleasantries," as he put it -- she had not been directly involved in the track.
Mr. Bennett suggested that Mid-State's board invite his wife to their meetings, since she apparently owned 54 percent of the stock. But the board decided against it.
Why? "The integrity issue," Mr. White said. "If the sport doesn't have integrity, it will vanish. If even the perception is that there isn't integrity, it will hurt -- that's the bottom line." That perception could come, he said, from any indication that the Bennetts might be actively involved in the track.
The Bennetts took it personally "that the track had to distance itself from their situation," said James Moran, the track announcer and publicity director, who has worked at Vernon Downs since 1962.
"That's how the feud began," he said
IT would take a hard heart to blame Gwen Bennett for taking it personally. She says that the allegations about the Bennett companies are too complicated for her to understand, but that they have destroyed her family. "They make my husband out to be a crook, but I believe in him," she said, adding that she does not think any investor will end up losing money.
A friendly and outspoken woman, Mrs. Bennett looks far younger than her 38 years. She still wears a large diamond ring and pendant but her clothes are not fancy; she describes her style as "Casual Corner, $99." After eight years of staying home with her two young sons, she has gone back to work to support her family, running the Winner's Circle restaurant at the Comfort Suites hotel. Like almost all of the family's assets, the hotel will probably end up in the hands of the bankruptcy trustee or other creditors.
Mrs. Bennett said she had always been interested in the track, had concerns about how it was being run and wanted her husband to sell his interest to her. How was she going to pay off the note? Dividends on the stock, she says vaguely. (The company's last dividend payment, in 1994, was 10 cents a share; Mrs. Bennett owns 135,600 shares.)
Why does a woman with so many problems want to get control of a money-losing race track? Her opponents have speculated that she wants to insure that she has work if her husband loses everything. "I think she's holding on in the hopes that some white knight will come and rescue her, but we don't think she's very realistic, or has very much business acumen," said Ronald M. Terenzi, a lawyer with Berkman Henoch Peterson & Peddy in Garden City, N.Y., which represents Mr. Wager, the note holder.
Mrs. Bennett says, however, that she is in the fight not for herself, but for the horsemen and the community. And she denies that her husband put her up to it. "Anybody that knows me," she said, "knows this is really me."
During the summer of 1996, the track's troubles mounted. Although attendance rose, the amount bet continued to drop, and Patrick Bennett's corporate sponsorships had evaporated. Almost $50,000 was unaccounted for because of problems at the hotel betting operation, Mr. White said.
The company's auditors, Coopers & Lybrand, had quit abruptly. (Mr. Breeden, the bankruptcy trustee, was until recently a partner there.) Because of the Bennett involvement, Mr. White said, it took him a month and many rejections before he could find new accountants.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Bennett said, she had lost all confidence in Mr. White and the rest of the board after she heard they planned to borrow money without, in her view, a plan to pay it back. She decided to nominate her own slate of directors, including Robert McSweeney, the manager of the Comfort Suites, and Jeremiah Law, owner of the Squat and Gobble restaurant, where she was working as a waitress when she met Mr. Bennett.
Now it was Mr. White's turn to be offended. The only qualifications of the nominees "appear to be their past affiliations with and loyalty to you and your husband," he wrote in a letter to her.
"The board's fiduciary duty to all shareholders precludes endorsement of unqualified candidates," the letter continued.
The matter came to a head at a special shareholders meeting in January, which was attended by Pat and Gwen Bennett, a fact that made the Syracuse newspapers. Mr. Bennett may have tipped things over the edge when he questioned Mr. White about the company's pension plan; the Federal Department of Labor has accused Mr. Bennett of mishandling the Bennett companies' plans, a charge he has denied.
"Our directors wanted to kill him," Mr. White said. "He had the gall to get up and question our integrity."
Mr. Wager, the Long Island businessman, also turned up with his own slate of candidates. One of them, a businessman from Muscle Shoals, Ala., was elected, along with Mrs. Bennett's candidates. But the board promptly moved to foil the Bennetts by expanding the number of directors to 12 and reappointing the three members defeated in the election.
AFTERWARD, the lawsuits started flying. Mrs. Bennett, who has four more candidates she wants on the board, has sued in State Supreme Court in Albany to force the Vernon Downs directors to schedule another election. Mr. Breeden, the bankruptcy trustee, has sued in Bankruptcy Court in Utica to get control of the shares he says were really paid for by the Bennett investors. And last month, Mr. Wager sued Mrs. Bennett in Supreme Court in Mineola, N.Y., on Long Island, saying that because she has defaulted on her note, the Vernon Downs shares really belong to him.
The race track remains in a financial bind. The Oneida County government has offered to lend the track money to preserve jobs, but not until the ownership issues are resolved. Mr. White says no one will lend the track money as long as the Bennetts are involved, and Mrs. Bennett says she can bring in local investors, but not until the current management is out.
Although the people in this drama remain angry and determined to prevail, there is also a note of regret and nostalgia in their voices.
Mr. Breeden, sitting in the Bennetts' old offices in Syracuse and listening to the anguish of thousands of investors desperate for money, thinks about how much better things would be if the brokers flogging Bennett securities had been required to notify his old agency, the S.E.C., about their activities. "I could have put a rule in place had I understood the problem, so it's a little frustrating," he said.
Mr. White wonders if he should have gone into another business, one that was growing, not declining. "I look at what Tiger Woods has done for golf and I think about things that are on the rise," he said. "When I was younger, I thought I could turn it around."
And Mrs. Bennett says she is determined to wear a happy face in public, but sounds sad. "I wish for the days when we were entertaining our friends," she said, "going to Vernon Downs and and watching the beautiful horses race."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gwen Bennett is fighting for control of the Vernon Downs race track, between Syracuse and Utica. But she is shadowed by her husband, Patrick, shown in the suit and tie in the background at right, whose failed leasing business has been called the biggest pyramid scheme in American history and has $600 million in losses. (Photographs by Ellen Blalock and Jim Commentucci/The Syracuse Newspapers)(pg. 1); Richard C. Breeden, the Bennett Funding bankruptcy trustee, addressed a group of about 400 angry investors who gathered in Newark last month. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (87%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); LAWYERS (68%); PYRAMID SCHEMES (68%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); HISTORY (53%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



18 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Welcome to Berkeley;
Professor Knowledge Is Not an Oxymoron

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

 BODY:
THE creation of a professorship is usually not a subject of great intellectual debate, but when the trendy University of California at Berkeley recently announced the endowment of a new chair, many academics paused to ponder what post-industrial society was coming to. With a $1 million grant from the Xerox Corporation and its Japanese affiliate, Berkeley created a Distinguished Professor of Knowledge -- at its business school.
Never mind that some professors, particularly professors of philosophy, could not understand what a professor of knowledge knows, or teaches. 
 "The idea is certainly a little bizarre, ambiguous," said Murat Aydede, an expert in the theory of knowledge at the University of Chicago's philosophy department. "What does this mean? Does it mean inquiry into the question of what is knowledge for these businessmen, or does he have some knowledge?"
Fred Dretske, chairman of Stanford University's philosophy department and author of "Knowledge and the Flow of Information" (M.I.T. Press, 1981), said: "I couldn't understand what he could be a professor of. I was sort of baffled by what kind of truth it involves."
Many people at Berkeley were quick to call the first occupant of the new chair, Ikujiro Nonaka, a Japanese management expert, Dr. Know.
But others pressed on to ask what would such a chair be doing at the business school, an institution dedicated to profits, after all, not wisdom or understanding.
"On one level certainly you can say a professor of knowledge is sort of a non sequitur because all professors are supposed to be professors of knowledge of one kind or another," said Neil Smelser, a sociologist who is a director at the Center for Advanced Study in Palo Alto. "And this chair looks like it should be in the school of Arts and Sciences. But it does say something interesting that that is thought of as a business subject."
Many academics saw the chair as a statement on how business schools are groping to enhance their role in an economy thriving less and less on the production of things and more on the production of ideas. Academic literature is filled with buzzwords like knowledge-based workers and intellectual capital. There are centers for the study of innovation and entrepreneurship, though many experts say it is almost impossible to teach it.
"Behind this is the recognition that the wealth of nations comes from utilization of technical know-how, not capital," said David Teece, a business professor at Berkeley and a pioneer in analyzing what he has called "the market for know-how."
Mr. Nonaka, a graduate of the Berkeley school of business, is famous for a book he co-wrote, "The Knowledge-Creating Company: How Japanese Companies Create the Dynamics of Innovation" (Oxford University Press, 1995). He is expected to teach how corporations can best create and then use innovative ideas.
In short, the traditional language of dollars and cents has been replaced with a more abstract language that struggles to explain a real brain teaser: What does gainful employment amount to in an economy that places such puzzling values on abstractions, and less value on workers, who have become so casually expendable.
"The idea of a knowledge-based society, I don't really understand what that can mean," said Bruce Vermazen, chairman of Berkeley's philosophy department. "It makes me a little frightened about the future. I liked it better when we made steel. Knowledge seems like kind of a shaky industry."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ikujiro Nonaka, knowledge professor. (University of California at Berkeley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: KNOWLEDGE-CREATING COMPANY, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (BERKELEY); XEROX CORP XEROX CORP (72%); OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (60%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (BERKELEY); XEROX CORP UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PHILOSOPHY (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LITERATURE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; NONAKA, IKUJIRO (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



19 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Marshall's Grand Plan;
Foreign Aid, 50 Years Later, Never Looked So Good

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
PRESIDENT CLINTON was in Europe last week in grandiloquent gear, celebrating the nobility, creativity and sacrifice of the generation of American leaders who carried out the Marshall Plan and helped to rebuild Western Europe.
Ever since George C. Marshall proposed the plan 50 years ago, Presidents have invoked it whenever they want to feel good about themselves. Even as historians scrutinize the aid program's role in the Cold War division of Europe, it stands as one of America's finest moments of global leadership and enlightened self-interest, and carries a powerful sentimental appeal that Americans are still capable of grand and unselfish acts. With arching rhetoric, Mr. Clinton summoned its spirit to sell a significantly lesser project, the expansion of NATO. 
 The historical parallels were shaky, the stakes far less dramatic. Europe is prosperous instead of prostrate, and the Soviet bear is no longer on the march. And as Mr. Clinton spoke of NATO's expansion as crucial to completing "the noble journey that Marshall's generation began," his own proposal was proof that the era of American generosity was long over.
For Mr. Clinton brought no money, just an exhortation to the Europeans and to private investors to rebuild central and eastern Europe, along with a pledge that "America stands with you." In this he followed the new American model in today's less-threatening world: talk about leadership, but get somebody else to pay the bill.
 
Instead of Billions, a Pledge
 "Churchillian rhetoric lacks credibility here," said Richard N. Haass, director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution. "In today's world, neither Europe nor NATO is as central. NATO enlargement is being oversold and can't form the centerpiece of a post-containment foreign policy.
"Mr. Clinton is wrong to try to base a foreign policy legacy on this," he continued. "It isn't big enough. It's not important enough for Europe or for the world. It isn't the Marshall Plan."
During the four years of the Marshall Plan, from 1948 through 1951, the United States provided $13 billion in grants and loans (about $88 billion in today's dollars). That was 1.2 percent of the nation's total economic output at the time; that percentage today, over four years, would total $320 billion. As important, America opened its markets to European goods and encouraged Europeans to act together for their collective benefit.
The man whom Mr. Clinton celebrates, Mr. Marshall, was known for his humility and the flatness of his delivery, even in the Harvard commencement speech in which 50 years ago this week he introduced the idea of a European Recovery Plan. His ringing beginning? "I need not tell you gentlemen that the world situation is very serious."
Mr. Marshall had unquestioned credibility for his crucial efforts to win World War II, along with his whole generation of American leaders. Mr. Clinton, by contrast, came into office having avoided his generation's war and thinking he could concentrate on domestic policy, having been handed the gift of a collapsed Soviet Union and a vanished cold war.
While the Marshall Plan was a creative response to a pressing challenge, the expansion of NATO, Mr. Haass said, is simply one possible response to a post-Soviet Europe that is not in turmoil or crisis.
"The Marshall Plan could be sold on its merits, while the best argument for going ahead with NATO enlargement now is that not going ahead with it would be worse," Mr. Haass said.
Charles William Maynes, president of the Eurasia Foundation and a former editor of Foreign Policy magazine, criticized Mr. Clinton for not offering enough. In today's climate, a huge program of foreign aid would be hooted down in the United States, he said, but Mr. Clinton could emulate the Marshall Plan by doing more to open American markets to goods from central and eastern Europe, Russia and Ukraine.
Nor is the President's appeal to global capital and private investment to meet Europe's needs sufficient, Mr. Maynes said. Money flows to Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic on their merits, but it will not flow to the countries that most need help, like Ukraine or Albania, without significant incentives. Mr. Clinton could also try to push these former Communist countries to work together, as the Marshall Plan did, rather than compete against one another for NATO membership and investment.
In the meantime, despite American urging that the European Union expand rapidly eastward, the challenges that its members face in making structural economic changes and reducing deficits in order to qualify for the single European currency mean there is little enthusiasm for a costly expansion of the union, let alone the smaller bill for a larger NATO.
Both Mr. Maynes and Mr. Haass pointed to the irony that while Mr. Clinton is promoting NATO, he is less than ringing about the American commitment to keep troops in Bosnia, which is NATO's most visible project in the post-Soviet era. Talk about stabilizing Europe through the arguably unnecessary initiative of expanding NATO could ring hollow if Washington walks away while European stability is unraveling again in Bosnia. "That's where the cynicism will come in," Mr. Haass said.
Peter W. Rodman, director of national security programs at the Nixon Center and a strong supporter of NATO expansion, is kinder to Mr. Clinton. "I used to be a speech writer, so I give them some license," he said. "Anyway, NATO enlargement bears some comparison to the Marshall period. It is the necessary consolidation of the 1989 revolution and makes it irreversible. It means the Yalta settlement is no more.
"These countries are independent and choose to be associated with the civilization of Europe and the West," he said. "To me, this is an act of creation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Happy birthday, dear Marshall Plan. Mr. Clinton at a Dutch party for the foreign-aid program. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (57%); NAICS335129 OTHER LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3648 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT, NEC (57%); NAICS541990 ALL OTHER PROFESSIONAL, SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); WESTERN EUROPE (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FINEST PRODUCTS (57%); PURESPECTRUM INC (57%); STATON INSTITUTE INC (57%); MARSHALL PLAN (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); WESTERN EUROPE (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MARSHALL PLAN; FOREIGN AID; WORLD WAR II (1939-45) INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (79%); COLD WAR (78%); HISTORY (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MARSHALL, GEORGE (1880-1959); ERLANGER, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



20 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Role Reversal;
Switching Sides on States' Rights

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IT'S hard to tell the states' righters from the big Government folks these days. It's even harder if you have a scorecard that lists party affiliations.
Not many years ago, Democrats were the chief advocates of a powerful central government, while Republicans defended state capitals against Washington. Now it is conservative Republicans who are saying that Washington knows best when it comes to curbing damage awards in state courts, or deciding which medical procedures states are competent to regulate. And it is Democrats who say the states know best about juvenile delinquency -- though not about gun control. 
 The role reversal has opportunism at its root: the Republicans find that the Congress they control is much wiser in its appreciation of national needs than the Congress the Democrats controlled only three years ago. But there are also cultural reasons why it can flourish.
The traditional argument for deferring to state or local control was the sanctity of regional differences, in economics, in customs, in values. When the Republic was founded, the relative importance of trade and agriculture was very different in Massachusetts and Virginia; for that very reason, the two states had quite distinct approaches to issues ranging from bankruptcy law to the War of 1812.
The United States, though, is now a country where children wear the jerseys of athletes who play for teams 1,000 miles away, and where people vacation in different regions from year to year. Even though two out of three people live in the state where they were born, a figure not very different from that of 1940 or even 1850, the national economy and culture have overtaken regional ones. In much of the country, local pride is perhaps felt most strongly by politicians, who stress their local roots.
As a result, said Don Kettl, a professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin, it is a stretch today to say that effective job training in Mississippi is different from that in Minnesota; the people in those states who administer training programs have similar college degrees, read similar newspapers and watch nearly identical television.
The best argument for states' rights now, Professor Kettl said, is efficiency and responsiveness. "We need a certain administrative discretion," he said. "You can't run everything from Washington." And those concerns were pre-eminent when a House education subcommittee took to the road last week to find out what people disliked about the Federal Government's role in education.
The touring representatives did not hear complaints that Washington was destroying Kentucky's or Ohio's unique approaches to learning based on their particular traditions and circumstances. But they heard lots about excessive, costly paperwork that Washington keeps inventing to keep local educators overworked. (They also heard that sending more Federal money would be nice.)
Yet even if the political actors have switched roles, the words used in Congressional debates are familiar. Except for the party affiliation of the speakers, it could have been a 1960's debate over any new Federal program last month, and not a commentary on this year's juvenile delinquency bill, when Max Sandlin, a Texas Democrat, said: "Who knows best how to handle these problems? Who knows best how to handle things in Texas, in New York, in California, in Mississippi, in Iowa, in Illinois, in Massachusetts? Let us let local teachers, local preachers, local parents, local friends handle local problems in our states."
He was answered by Republicans, who made traditional arguments that an overwhelming national problem required a bold solution -- as Democrats used to say in explaining why Washington needed to step in when the states weren't getting the job done. One veteran Republican, Bill McCollum of Florida, acknowledged, "We want these states to correct a broken juvenile justice system."
 
Debating Points
 Much of the explanation for this reversal of roles is simply political advantage. Representative Barney Frank, a Democrat from Massachusetts, said that "99.9 percent of Congress clearly prefer that the issue be decided at that level of government which will decide the issue the way they like."
His frequent debating foe, Representative Henry J. Hyde, the Illinois Republican and the House's leading foe of abortion, does not really disagree. The civil justice system -- which Republicans want changed to limit damage awards -- may not be a traditional Federal responsibility, he said, but neither was family leave -- a Democratic issue. States' rights, he said "is kind of a debating point. On a scale of 10, it's about a two. You got to do what you got to do."
Such admissions appall conservative theorists like Roger Pilon, director of the Center for Constitutional Studies at the Cato Institute. "There is a great deal of flip-flop here," he said, as many conservatives in Congress share liberals' "great distrust of the states."
Where Democrats want the Federal Government to handle social welfare, Republicans want it to deal with crime, he said, and both sides are wrong.
 
Defending the P.T.A.
 Liberals like Mr. Frank seem less embarrassed to be arguing for the states than conservatives are at arguing for Washington. Perhaps that is because Democrats usually were arguing pragmatically, rather than for central government as a goal in itself.
In 1965, when the first major Federal bill to aid education was enacted, Representative Howard W. Smith, a very conservative Virginian, argued, "There is nothing dearer to the American home than the neighborhood school, where you have your P.T.A. and your different organizations and all take a vital interest in the school and have some control of it."
The other side didn't answer Mr. Smith directly. Instead, Representative Carl Perkins of Kentucky simply declared, "The education needs of the United States will be met only when the Federal Government accepts its responsibility to provide a great share of the cost of public education."
Today, liberals like Todd Gitlin, a professor at New York University, contend that "the argument for local difference was always disingenuous"; states' rights was a Southern device for preserving racial segregation.
Obviously, race was at the center of the nation's greatest regional conflict, the Civil War. But, Mr. Gitlin acknowledged, the South also had decades of resentment of Eastern bankers and of Federal tariffs that helped manufacturing states but not agricultural ones. Today, a similar reaction is that of Westerners who think Eastern environmentalists want them to starve so they can vacation in mountains unscarred by logging, mining and grazing.
 
A Logical Division of Labor
 Arguments against establishing national standards in education are also mounted defensively, rather than to preserve "some abstract New Hampshire-ness," Mr. Gitlin said.
"They are afraid of the onslaught of secular humanism, or pointy-headed bureaucrats," he said.
Some political scientists argue that various duties fall logically to the Federal Government; leaving welfare spending to the states, for example, could induce "a race to the bottom" as all states try to avoid attracting the poor.
On the other hand, according to this school, decisions regarding economic development and many public services should fall naturally to states and localities.
Mr. Pilon is no such accommodationist. He argues that relying on government to deal with problems, rather than leaving them to individuals, should be undertaken "only if one has to, and then only at the lowest level possible, on the theory that the people who are closest to the problem are best able to handle it."
He finds hardly any of the expansions of national authority in recent decades -- except for the 1964 Voting Rights Act -- salutary.
But times change. If the ideological alliances behind states' rights or centralism are now muddled, it is worth remembering that they have changed before.
Indeed, when these controversies began in the 1790's as the reach of the Federal Government was being defined, it was Jefferson's party (then called Republican but the ancestor of today's Democrats) that wanted more power vested in the states. It was the Federalists and the commercial interests who sought a powerful national Government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS); STATES (US) CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (76%); CHILDREN (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); DAMAGES (71%); GUN CONTROL (70%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



21 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Awesome;
In Kids' Pop Culture, Fear Rules

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL 

 BODY:
Her laugh turned to a moan at the first ripple in her bones. She tensed her thighs and abdomen to will the change on, and clutched the night air like a lover as her fingers lengthened and her nails sprouted. Her blood churned with heat like desire. The night, she thought, sweet night.
-- Jacket blurb for "Blood and Chocolate" by Annette Kurtis Klause, a werewolf novel for 13-year-olds. 
BOY meets she-wolf. She-wolf falls for meat (boy). And parents and educators wonder where, oh where, have Nancy Drew and the Hardy Boys gone?
Terror is stalking children's popular culture.
It lurks in the pages of glossy paperbacks, where bodies dangle from nooses like "heavy ripe fruit" and teens suffer from really serious skin problems, involving ripping, clawing and puddles of blood.
It glows in darkened living rooms where, according to the Nielsen TV ratings, on typical nights more than 1.3 million children below age 11 are watching "The X-Files," the hit occult detective series, and 600,000 wait eagerly for "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" to skewer a throbbing heart.
And last week across the country, in entire multiplexes devoted solely to screenings of the phenomenal blockbuster "The Lost World," it gripped millions of pre-teens in an orgy of primordial mayhem: for starters, the film offered up a picnicking girl as a snack for baby dinosaurs, and raced on to show a frightened innocent performing the gymnastics routine of her young lifetime to escape rampaging velociraptors.
Kids have long enjoyed having the bejeezus scared out of them, but never before have the movie, TV and publishing industries seemed so adept and sophisticated in indulging their dark fascinations. A range of educators and childhood experts cite dead-on production values and marketing savvy as key factors behind a slew of books, TV programs and films that are grittier, scarier, edgier and more violent than ever before. At the same time, they say, it also appears that the audience for kiddy horror is getting younger and younger.
 
Younger Targets

"The opportunities to find scary things are increasing," said Joanne Cantor, a communications professor at the University of Wisconsin in Madison who has studied children's reactions to frightening TV shows and movies for 15 years. With cable TV, she notes, there are more chances for children to happen upon frightening programs. And, she added, even movies marketed as family fare are ratcheting up the terror level.
Referring to the picnic-idyll-turned-nightmare opening of "The Lost World," she said: "My research shows that one of the scariest things for a young child is when a child is a victim. And yet these programs are marketed to the entire family, and kids are begging to get in." The film is rated PG-13, which amounts to a signal to boundary-testing pre-teens that this movie is for them.
In publishing, the youth reading market is dominated by the scores of works by R. L. Stine -- both his "Goosebumps" series, published by Scholastic Books, and his "Fear Street" novels for older, "young adult" readers, published by Pocket Books.
Marilyn Payne Phillips of the University City Library in Missouri says the surfeit of Stine titles leads to younger kids reading inappropriate material. "I have third- and fourth-graders who want to read the books, and they can't distinguish between R. L. Stine writing for children and R. L. Stine writing for young adults," she said. "That's the scary thing to me as a children's librarian." The shelves are also full of Mr. Stine's imitators, and scary spinoffs capitalizing on popular television programs like "The X-Files" and "Tales From the Crypt."
Alice Joinaitis, an editor at Random House of books for young readers, suggests that a form of horror inflation is at play in the visual and print media, explaining that "the world is a more sensational place.
"I don't know how to say this without making it sound terrible," she said, "but we just try to make books as interesting as television, books that are interesting and exciting to read -- and not artifacts of some old, duddy age."
And publishing executives note that, in giving kids what they want, the scary fare is at least enticing reluctant readers to crack open books. But such defenses -- finding justification in the demands of the youth marketplace -- don't wash with some parents, who have led scattered and largely unsuccessful efforts to ban Mr. Stine's books from schools and libraries. Experts on child behavior are worried too.
"I see more and more kids with nightmares in psychotherapy," said Mary Pipher, the author of "Reviving Ophelia: Saving the Selves of Adolescent Girls." "Three-year-olds and 5-year-olds are watching shows like 'The X-Files,' and they're just not ready for the material."
In her research on fright, Professor Cantor noted many reports of children driven into their parents' beds by frightening TV programs. She said one mother complained after her 7-year-old son watched an "X-Files" featuring "a man who had a sore on his stomach that was actually his twin brother who would growl during the day and kill at night."
"The boy woke up in a fit and for a week insisted on sleeping with his parents," Ms. Cantor said.
It is a commonplace of the publishing industry that young boys are the most voracious consumers of fright fiction, but librarians and some publishing executives say girls are actually their chief readers.
"We debate that," said Nancy Pines, a publisher for young readers at Pocket Books. "But we see fan mail for our 'Fear Street' series mostly from girls. I think boys do read them, but if I had to venture a guess I would say it's 60 to 40 for girls."
Some librarians worry about the impact on girls, who are often featured as victims of violence. There are also female characters who can dish out violence as well as take it -- the high-school heroine of "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," for example. Are TV portrayals of feminine aptitudes for violence a good thing? A bad thing? Both?
Ms. Pipher advises parents to form small co-operatives to share information about books, films and television programs appropriate for their children. "My grandmother used to tell me to choose your books like your own friends," she said.
Grandma never had friends like these.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scared stiff: "Lost World" museum exhibit in New York. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: LOST WORLD, THE: JURASSIC PARK (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); MADISON, WI, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CULTURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; VIOLENCE CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); LITERATURE (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); YOUTH MARKET (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); TEENS MARKET (73%); MOVIE RATINGS (72%); PUBLISHING (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); CONTENT RATINGS (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: CARVAJAL, DOREEN

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



22 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
Let the Trial Begin!

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
Now that the Supreme Court has spoken, let Bill Clinton's trial begin! There are two vital reasons why it is in the national interest that Paula Jones have her day in court -- and that it be the longest day in court American jurisprudence can provide.
1. The country is bored, desperately bored. No matter that the economy is booming, there's peace abroad and the new welfare law gives us permission to stop worrying about the poor; Americans have been spiraling into depression since O. J. left the stage. What good is guilt-free prosperity if we suffer from entertainment deprivation? 
 Oh sure, the pundits all promised us that the Timothy McVeigh trial would fill that vacuum, but what a sadly bitter bust it has turned out to be. Efficient, brief, professional, untelevised and possibly even just, it is enough to leave anyone bemoaning the fallen state of a legal system whose ability to generate months of riveting soap opera was only yesterday the envy of the civilized world.
Despite some promising tabloid headlines, no other case is rushing in to fill the vacuum. Up in Massachusetts, a baby sitter is letting sleeping Kennedys lie. The air went out of the Marv Albert scandal once the Arlington police refused to strip the defendant of his rug for his mug shot. Nor, it seems, is there any great public clamor for Frank and Kathie Lee Gifford to take their marital troubles to court. A trial would only guarantee still more air time for the overexposed Kathie Lee -- not to mention the blinding prospect that she might be interviewed on CBS by the one TV personality who can match her in aggressive perkiness and on-camera baby-wielding, Susan Molinari.
With such a parched summer ahead, is it any wonder that the nation is reduced to watching "The Lost World"? The only entertainment alternatives are to attend museum exhibitions about the dinosaurs of "The Lost World" or to stay home and watch TV news reports about the weekend grosses of "The Lost World."
2. The President needs to give his second term some "distinguishing characteristics." Far from being too busy to go to trial, as his lawyers ineffectually argued to the Court, Mr. Clinton is clearly a man in need of a mission -- and one that might actually be of benefit to the nation.
The last time the President earned his keep was during his last State of the Union Address, when his avalanche of empty promises offered a tranquilizing diversion during the excruciating wait for the verdict in the O. J. civil trial. Since then, the education President has negotiated a balanced budget that offers not a penny to rebuild the nation's decrepit public schools. What's more, the anti-tobacco, pro-childhood-development President secured his empty budget deal by killing a bipartisan measure that would have raised cigarette taxes to buy poor children health care.
Now Mr. Clinton is shifting from the disingenuous to the nonsensical. Ten days ago, when Hillary Clinton and Tipper Gore played host to the editors of women's magazines, fashion magazines included, at the White House, the President gave a speech decrying the fashion world's "heroin chic" -- but to a meeting of mayors in another room. It's bad enough that the anti-drug President can't stand up to Mexico -- a far bigger source of our current drug woes than a grotesque fashion fad that's run its course -- but to the editor of Vogue?
Equally odd was the President's proposal the next day for a V-chip to regulate porn on the infinite sites of the Internet, just as it's dawning on the public that his election-year gimmick of a ratings-driven V-chip can't even regulate the few dozen channels on TV. And what about Mr. Clinton's hollow call to develop an AIDS vaccine within a decade? Though the President likened his own speech to John Kennedy's 1961 call for putting a man on the moon, he, unlike his predecessor, put no money on the table. The real historical analogue is Richard Nixon, whose sweeping 1971 declaration of a war on cancer has left cancer death rates virtually unchanged in the 26 years since.
If Mr. Clinton isn't going to do anything else worthwhile, it behooves him to go to trial and at least fulfill his solemn obligation to entertain the country. If he decides to shirk this duty, too, by settling out of court, then let the televised impeachment begin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VERDICTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



23 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Clinton, at West Point, Says Bigger NATO Lessens Chance of War

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WEST POINT, N.Y., May 31

 BODY:
President Clinton told graduating West Point cadets today that the mere prospect of NATO's expansion into the former Soviet bloc had increased stability in Europe and decreased the chances that they "will ever be called to fight in another war across the Atlantic."
Mr. Clinton's commencement address at the United States Military Academy served as a coda to his trip this week to Europe, where he promised that the United States would remain engaged on the Continent. In Paris on Tuesday he and other NATO leaders signed a cooperation and security pact with Russia that opened a new chapter in the post-World War II history of Europe. 
 The Russia-NATO agreement paves the way for the 16-nation North Atlantic Treaty Organization to begin the process of taking in new members from Eastern and Central Europe at a summit meeting in Madrid in July.
With his speech today, Mr. Clinton stepped up a campaign to make sure that the Senate supports the extension of formal security guarantees to former Soviet bloc nations when it is called upon to approve the arrangement sometime next year.
But the President did not address the question that has left the United States at odds with many of its own allies: How many nations should be invited in the first round to join the alliance. While the United States supports the entry of the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland, a majority of NATO members want the expansion in July to include Slovenia and Romania as well.
On a hazy day, with the uniformed cadets arrayed in front of him in the academy's Michie Stadium, Mr. Clinton acknowledged that the addition of new members to the alliance was not "cost- or risk-free."
He told the graduates that NATO was extending its "most solemn security pledge," which means "that you could be asked to put your lives on the line for a new NATO member, just as today you can be called upon to defend the freedom of our allies in Western Europe."
But he said he was convinced the "gains decisively outweigh the burdens" of bringing former Warsaw Pact nations under the security umbrella of the West. He said the enlargement would strengthen NATO for the future, cement democracy's gains in Central Europe and eliminate the dividing line of the cold war.
"The bottom line to me is clear," he said. "Expanding NATO will enhance our security. It is the right thing to do. We must not fail history's challenge at this moment to build a Europe peaceful, democratic, undivided, allied with us to face the new security threats of a new century."
He said the prospect of joining NATO had already led fledgling democracies emerging from Communism to deepen democratic reforms, put their militaries under civilian control and open their economies. He said Central and Eastern European nations had also settled more than half a dozen ethnic and border disputes.
"That in turn makes it less likely that you will ever be called to fight in another war across the Atlantic," he said, drawing loud applause.
He added that the alliance was strengthened by adding new members and pointed to the fact that American troops in Bosnia had been deployed from a staging ground in Hungary.
Mr. Clinton took issue with critics who say the expansion is not ending cold war divisions but simply creating a new line across Europe closer to Russia's borders.
"NATO's first members should not be its last," he said. "NATO's doors will remain open to all those willing and able to shoulder the responsibilities of membership."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); HUNGARY (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); POLAND (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (WEST POINT, NY); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (94%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (WEST POINT, NY); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (94%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; RUSSIA; EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); HUNGARY (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); POLAND (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



24 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Southeast Asia Bloc Admits Burmese and Two Others

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, May 31

 BODY:
Defying the wishes of the United States and brushing aside concerns over human rights abuses, the Southeast Asian political and economic bloc known as Asean announced today that it would embrace Myanmar as a member this year.
The announcement, at a meeting of the bloc's foreign ministers in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, came after months of debate and lobbying and was a significant gesture in defining the political philosophy of the region, one of the world's fastest growing economically. 
 The seven-member group, formally the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, agreed to expand its ranks to include three new members: Myanmar, formerly Burma; Laos, with its tiny and isolated economy, and Cambodia, where political infighting is raising new fear of national disintegration.
Despite doubts about the political or economic readiness of all three nations, there has been strong pressure within the bloc to enlist them, thereby expanding to include all 10 nations of the region at the group's 30th anniversary meeting in July.
The three nations had been admitted in November as observers, but their acceptance as full members remained in question until today.
"It was unanimous," said Foreign Minister Abdullah Badawi of Malaysia, describing what appeared to have been a hard-won consensus. "There were no reservations on the part of any Asean member."
The United States had lobbied against the admission of Myanmar, citing a continuing record of "severe repression" by the military Government. The United States imposed economic sanctions on Myanmar this month.
Its admission, as well, came despite a plea, in a smuggled videotape, from the leader of Myanmar's democratic opposition, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. She said in the tape that Asean's endorsement would make Myanmar's military leaders "even more obdurate and oppressive."
In recent months, Myanmar's Government has severely restricted the activities of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, a winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, and arrested a number of her supporters. Today's step was taken in the midst of a crackdown in which the opposition says that more than 300 members of her National League for Democracy have been detained.
They say the detentions -- which the Government denies -- appear to have been aimed at preventing a convention meant to mark the seventh anniversary of a general election in 1990 that was won by Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's party, but annulled by the military leadership.
Though there has been debate within Asean, the announcement today marked a success by its most influential members, Indonesia and Malaysia, and their philosophy of "constructive engagement."
The other members of the bloc are Thailand, Singapore, the Philippines, Brunei and Vietnam, which was admitted two years ago.
The constructive engagement approach involves a hands-off policy toward the "internal affairs" of other nations and the primacy of economic relationships over political and human rights concerns. It flies in the face of the American approach -- by which, to varying degrees in different situations -- economic engagement is linked with issues of political freedom, labor rights, environmental policy and measures to combat drug trafficking.
Political analysts said that one reason for today's action was an assertion of regional autonomy, and they suggested that public pressure from the United States might have backfired with such independent-minded leaders as Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia, Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore and President Suharto of Indonesia.
"To save face, Asean will have to admit Burma," Foreign Minister Surapong Jayanama of Thailand had said earlier this month.
At a Senate hearing last week, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said, "We have tried very hard to get the Asean countries to follow our steps, but they don't seem to be interested in it."
Asked today whether the announcement was a signal to the West that the region would not brook outside pressure, Mr. Badawi of Malaysia replied: "It was not a signal. We signal to nobody."
Southeast Asian leaders have also expressed concern that antagonistic actions like the economic sanctions against Myanmar just imposed by the United States could push it into a closer alliance with China, whose growing power and assertiveness are a big source of regional concern.
Political analysts agree that the sanctions themselves are largely symbolic, given the vigorous economic involvement of Myanmar's Southeast Asian neighbors in the country.
On Friday, after the United States imposed the sanctions, Myanmar announced that it had signed a broad economic and trade agreement with Beijing, further consolidating a growing network of ties with the Chinese, to the north.
By admitting Myanmar to Asean, Foreign Minister Ali Alatas of Indonesia said, "we are also taking into account the overall long-term consideration of peace and security and tranquillity in our part of the world."
"By having all three enter Asean, we are complete now," he added. "And we are in a better position to contribute to peace and stability in our region."
Asean was founded at the height of the Vietnam War in 1967, when there were fears that Communism might spread through an economically struggling region.
Since then, much of Southeast Asia has transformed itself into a capitalist showcase, with some of the fastest-growing economies in the world.
The region's nations have, in general, worked out a successful system of relationships based on consensus that permits for a range of political systems, from the freewheeling democracy of the Philippines to the authoritarian controls of Singapore and Indonesia to the lingering Communist strictures of Vietnam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (98%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (97%); ASIA (97%); MALAYSIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (92%); INDONESIA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASEAN (ASSN OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS SOUTHEAST ASIAN PACKAGING & CANNING CO LTD (91%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASEAN (ASSN OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; MYANMAR; LAOS; CAMBODIA; MYANMAR (98%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (97%); ASIA (97%); MALAYSIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (92%); INDONESIA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); SMUGGLING (64%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH AUNG SAN SUU KYI (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



25 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: For Families, Trial Leaves Haunting Questions

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: DENVER, May 31

 BODY:
As the trial of Timothy J. McVeigh drew to a close, leaving the jury to deliberate whether he set off the bomb that killed 168 people in Oklahoma City two years ago, many relatives of the victims watched the proceedings from 500 miles away, over closed-circuit televisions at the Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center in Oklahoma City.
For some, that was much too far away. 
 Since the first hearing in the case was held more than 14 months ago, Oklahomans have lined up in a steady stream as early as 3 A.M. to claim a seat in the second-floor Federal courtroom here. The group includes at least four victims' relatives who have scarcely missed a session.
"I wanted to see everything that happens -- I wanted to hear everything that happens," said Charles Tomlin, whose 46-year-old son, Rick, an enforcement officer for the Federal Transportation Department, was killed in the blast. "I had also wanted to know why. I wanted to look up and see McVeigh, a nice-looking man, and try to understand what drove him to kill this many people."
Did he succeed?
"I never got answers to those questions," he said.
Mr. Tomlin, 69, a retired elevator supervisor with the Continental Grain Company, has been staying with a brother who lives in Aurora, Colo., a suburb just east of Denver. Each day he drives his brother's truck to and from the Federal Courthouse, in downtown Denver, and keeps his three brothers and four sisters apprised of events, using a free telephone service set up for relatives and friends of the victims.
Over the months, Mr. Tomlin said, he has come to know other victims' relatives who have attended most of the court sessions, including Marsha Kight, who lost her 22-year-old daughter, Frankie Ann Merrell; Jannie Coverdale, whose two grandsons, Aaron, 5, and Elijah, 2, were killed, and Roy Sells, whose wife, Leora Lee, 57, was killed.
In addition to the regulars, at least a dozen other relatives of victims have sat in the courtroom; a lottery system awarded space for 12 relatives each week.
Dan McKinney, who lost his wife, Linda, 47, a Secret Service agent, and a niece, Shelly Turner Bland, 25, an employee of the Drug Enforcement Agency, said he had come to Denver only because his daughter had won a lottery seat and offered it to him.
At first, he declined. "This has been too painful for me," said Mr. McKinney, who had been married 3 years, 3 months and 28 days at the time of the blast. "I've been a bundle of nerves for two years.
"I came with so much anxiety, anger, pain and frustration," Mr. McKinney said. "But now that I've been here and heard firsthand all the evidence, it has helped me a lot."
Like Mr. Tomlin, Mr. McKinney said he believed that Mr. McVeigh was guilty. Yet he, too, said the trial had left questions unanswered.
"I'd like to ask him about statements he made about hating the Government so much he wanted to change it," Mr. McKinney said, referring to witnesses who testified that Mr. McVeigh had been outraged when about 80 people died in a siege of the Branch Davidian compound near Waco, Tex., four years ago. "I want to tell him that you could blow up every Federal Building in the country, and it's not going to change our system one bit."
Another Oklahoman wanted to tell Mr. McVeigh something. Ann McVey came here this week with her husband, Bill, and when she walked into court, she turned toward the defendant and told him exactly what she thought of him. And what was that?
"I can't say it," Mrs. McVey said soberly, acknowledging that her comments had included offensive language. "I felt like I had to get it over with. I needed to see Timothy McVeigh in person and say to him what I thought about him. And I did."
Mrs. McVey, a state economic developer who worked in a building adjacent to the one destroyed by the blast, the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, was hurt when a door flew off its hinges and hit her in the head.
She said that ever since Mr. McVeigh had been charged with the bombing, she and her husband had felt the need to apologize for their name "every time we introduce ourselves."
The similarity continues to haunt her. "My injuries have healed," Mrs. McVey said. "My emotions have gotten better. But, still, it's like opening up a new wound every time I hear his name, and it's the same as our name."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many families of victims in the Oklahoma City bombing have attended the trial of Timothy J. McVeigh in Denver. Dan McKinney, who lost his wife and a niece in the bombing, was at the courthouse on Friday. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (67%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (67%); SIC5153 GRAIN & FIELD BEANS (67%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (67%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (94%); DENVER, CO, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL GRAIN CO (67%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY (OKLA); UNITED STATES (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (94%); DENVER, CO, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); TERRORISM (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (57%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; MCVEIGH, TIMOTHY JAMES

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



26 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: The Clinton Conundrum

 BODY:
As the first summer of Bill Clinton's second term approaches, that peculiar mixture of the admirable and degrading continues to distinguish his Presidency. How else to describe the twin spectacles of last week? There was Mr. Clinton, elder statesman baby boomer, confidently bantering with Prime Minister Tony Blair in London and rewriting the political map of Europe, even while becoming more enmeshed at home in what surely are the most lurid accusations ever directed against a sitting President. The American economic boom is helping to keep Mr. Clinton's approval ratings at an all-time high, yet a sense of personal scandal makes this a Presidency constantly on the edge.
The precarious feeling about this White House derives partly from what the office has become. The historian Michael Beschloss says that Mr. Clinton's Presidency may be a reversion to something more common in the 19th century, when Presidential success depended on cooperating with, and often yielding to, a powerful Congress. The modern Presidency was elevated by two developments, he says -- the expanding Federal Government and the central role of the cold war in American thought. With both these factors now in eclipse, the Presidency seems to be shrinking, as does any individual executive's ability to dominate the national consciousness with security issues or to transform the lives of Americans with domestic reform. Mr. Clinton tried at least some of that in his first two years, by declaring that he would complete the New Deal and Great Society in health care. The ensuing debacle insured that the rest of his time in office would consist of emotionally unsatisfying mini-steps. 
 The highly partisan nature of the political landscape in Washington has also clouded the perception of the Presidency and its capability. Fifty years ago, the last time the United States had a Democratic President and Republican Congress, President Truman confronted his foes and then took his case to the people. Mr. Clinton used confrontation in 1995, but has now achieved a remarkable parliamentary majority that has brought progress toward a balanced budget and the first arms control agreement to win Senate approval in many years. Whether you agree with the results or not, it is obvious that this President is as skillful as any in modern times in finding and occupying the political center of gravity -- at least for certain moments in a campaign or legislative battle.
Fortune magazine has declared this month that the United States economy is stronger than it has ever been before. Since Mr. Clinton would get much of the blame if it failed, he is entitled to claim some of the credit. On a practical level, prosperity is probably his greatest shield against scandal. There is much of this Presidency that remains admirable above and beyond the blessings of good times. Mr. Clinton's actions on trade, budget policy, gun control, the environment, tobacco and affirmative action are impressive. We wish he showed more backbone on welfare, insisting on the means to employ the people who may be kicked off the rolls in what is probably the scariest instance of social engineering toward the poor in our time.
But it is not disagreement on such policy issues that creates the mutable, muddled feelings that surround Mr. Clinton. The ragged edge of Mr. Clinton's Presidency, its novelistic quality, has to do with the outsized character questions dogging him since 1992. What he did while Governor of Arkansas, in a hotel room or with a failed real estate deal, does not of course directly relate to his accomplishments. Just the same, if talk show banter is any guide, the public remains troubled and confused by the President's behavior -- riveted and wanting to averts its eyes at the same time. History will have a hard time defining the emotional complexity of many people's reactions to a man of such remarkable talents that he is almost like a great athlete at the top of his game, and yet flawed by lack of discipline, by self-pity, defensiveness, a volcanic temper and being too eager to please.
The President may never be able to fix this undercurrent of concern. Recently, Senator Bob Dole summed it up well when he called the President a "likable rogue" who is "always pushing the envelope." If Mr. Clinton were truly to center himself in the hearts of Americans, he would have to come clean over what happened with Paula Corbin Jones, reaching a settlement in the best interests of all involved, not to mention the country, cooperate fully with the Whitewater and related investigations and put these issues as well behind him. That he has handled these personal and legal crises so badly while doing some parts of his job so well is part of the drama -- indeed, the psychodrama of the Clinton Presidency. It also helps explain why a country basking in prosperity cannot shake a lingering wariness about the gifted but imperfect and uncandid man in the White House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); COLD WAR (76%); HISTORY (76%); APPROVALS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); SCANDALS (70%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (66%); GUN CONTROL (60%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (57%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); TONY BLAIR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



27 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1667 words

HEADLINE: Child-Care Solutions in a New World of Welfare

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
At the knee-high white plastic table in a living room crammed with toys and books, Tanya Holmes dealt out sheets of paper imprinted with letters of the alphabet and crayons to color them.
 "Breana," Ms. Holmes said, "I'm going to give you purple. Tashad, you get green." Lavonte Briggs, 4, asked, "Can I have blue?"
Ms. Holmes ran these children like clocks, from coloring and counting to a stomping, tambourine-thumping rendition of "B.I.N.G.O." 
 "You've got to have a routine so they know what's next," Ms. Holmes said. "Routine is a key word in day care."
Ms. Holmes, a robust and exuberant 22-year-old single mother who tends to children in her home, could hold another key, one that may be vital to solving a vexing question for the new world of welfare: As parents are pushed into the work force, who will take care of their children?
A promising answer, say many states, is licensing the kind of service that parents like Ms. Holmes provide, known as family day care.
To grant the license, states must be assured that the children are safe and well cared for and that they are being prepared for school. In return, Illinois pays Ms. Holmes up to $90.65 a week per child for the five or six children she normally cares for, with an assistant.
There is another important benefit: For former welfare recipients like Ms. Holmes, child care is a ticket off public assistance. In allowing women to earn a living by caring for the children of others, the states both create jobs for welfare mothers and pave the way for the mothers of the children they keep to go to work.
"They get a two-fer," said Wendell E. Primus of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group in Washington.
While it is too soon to measure the new welfare law's effect on family day care, Illinois, which already has more than 9,000 providers of day care like Tanya Holmes, is expanding the service. Among other things, it has begun a program to train mothers at Cabrini Green, Chicago's big housing project.
Nationwide, in part because of earlier programs to encourage recipients to work, the number of homes licensed to care for children climbed to 299,000 last year from 193,000 in 1988, according to the Children's Foundation, a research organization in Washington.
But licensed family care is eventually unlikely to meet the expected demand, child-care advocates warn. They predict that late next year, as the welfare law's mandate to work reaches the majority of the nation's four million welfare families, and as more of the working poor seek day care for their children, some parents will be left without any care. This, in turn, could encourage wider use of unqualified child-care providers.
In Chicago, as in some other big cities, an acute shortage of child care is already developing, confronting mothers with the agonizing choice of earning a paycheck while leaving their children untended or staying at home and losing their welfare check.
But states say it is in their own best interest to make the welfare overhaul work so that parents will not have to make such choices. The welfare law gives the states $4 billion more in Federal support for child care over the next six years than they would have had otherwise, and many states are increasing their own spending beyond that.
A bustling economy has been a big help. In generating more and more jobs for everyone, the economy has helped drive down the number of welfare recipients and thus the costs of supporting them.
This has produced a windfall for states by freeing money from cash assistance programs and matching Federal welfare grants. In his budget proposal for the next fiscal year, Gov. Jim Edgar of Illinois, a Republican, is asking for $350 million for child care, $70 million more than this year. New Jersey is doubling its spending for child care over two years.
New York, Minnesota, Oregon and North Carolina are making similar uses of their savings from declining welfare recipients. Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin, a Republican, is raising the state's child-care subsidies enough so that a low-wage family's cost of care comes to no more than 16 percent of its income.
For many states, licensed family care has become a workable and cost-efficient compromise between day-care centers and the largely unregulated care of baby sitters.
For one reason, it is convenient. Unlike the typical day-care center, Ms. Holmes's home is just doors from those of many welfare recipients, so they can walk their children over. And it is relatively inexpensive. In cities like New York, Chicago and Boston, normal day care for just one child can cost as much as the $190 that a minimum-wage worker earns in a week, or more than twice the cost of Ms. Holmes's care.
For child-care providers like Ms. Holmes, nearly all states require training, and they oversee the homes, with regulators typically stopping in unannounced.
Connecticut, for example, lets a licensed provider take in six preschool children, though no more than two infants, and the provider must have a high school diploma or 540 hours of experience as a child-care aide.
Georgia requires one worker, a high school graduate, to care for three children up to 1 year old and two workers to watch up to six children. Delaware requires that providers have considerable preparation beyond high school, for example, a college degree in child development or six months' experience.
Still, states' redoubled support of child care has not gone far enough in cities like Chicago, with high concentrations of welfare-recipient job seekers, in part because of the crunch of the working poor who are also seeking day care.
The welfare law requires that recipients be working within two years and terminates their cash assistance in five, so by then they must be able to support themselves and their children. The result here is severe shortages of low-cost day-care workers and centers to handle a load that by all accounts is rapidly increasing.
"We get 110 calls a month for two openings a month," said Thomas F. Layman, director of the government- and charity-supported North Avenue Day Nursery on the West Side of Chicago. North Avenue enrolls 175 in its day-care center and eight licensed-care homes.
Barbara Jacob, family services manager at the Lutheran Family Mission, which operates three centers and oversees the mission's 186 family care providers, said, "We tell them it's going to be a year or two years before we can take their child."
Faced with day-care shortages, Illinois like most states lets parents turn to the inexpensive, unregulated, sometimes indifferent, care provided by a neighbor or relative.
The state asks the child's parent and the child-care provider to sign a form stating that the day-care home is safe, with guns and poisons locked up, and that no one there abuses children. In return, the state pays the child keeper $8.98 a day per child. For the child-care providers who are on welfare, the state counts their service as work, permitting them to keep their benefits.
But even as it subsidizes programs like this one, the state actually goes no further than that in regulating them. "Nobody looks at the home except the mother," said Michele Piel, manager of child-care development at the Illinois Department of Public Aid.
In a study two years ago, the Families and Work Institute, a research group in New York, determined that only 9 percent of such informal arrangements in several cities provided good quality care.
"This is make-do tripe," said Marie C. Wilson, president of the MS Foundation for Women, which is sponsoring programs to train people to become licensed child-care providers. "Look at what it does for a field we are trying to upgrade. It implies that anyone can do it."
Ms. Holmes, by contrast, received training for four months last year at one of the Lutheran Family Mission's day-care centers. "I went 3 times a week," she said, "9 to 12."
In the vestibule of Ms. Holmes's duplex, everyone, children and visitors, must take off their shoes. Ms. Holmes uses the parlor and adjoining room for most of her work. The walls are covered with shelves with books, toys, tapes of children's songs, plastic musical instruments and instructional materials.
Ms. Jacob of the mission said: "She's a real active provider. She really does her curriculum and different types of learning things we want for the children."
Like all the states' licensed providers, Ms. Holmes and her assistant, Shanda Dortch, 20, work under some supervision. The Department of Public Aid, which licenses her, sends an inspector once a year. The Federal Department of Agriculture, which provides the children's meals, visits once a year without warning to check on her kitchen.
Day-care managers from the mission and another, similar service, Chicago Commons, visit once a month, sometimes unannounced. They also telephone. "They'll ask if there's anything I need," Ms. Holmes said, "or they check on the status of a particular child."
In return, the mission and Chicago Commons refer the children of working welfare mothers and of the working poor and pay the providers state-subsidized fees of $90.65 a week to care for children under 2 1/2 years old and $66.50 a week for older children. On a scale based on incomes, the children's parents reimburse the state from 25 cents of the cost up to $62 a week. Ms. Holmes has one private client who pays $85 a week.
This produces an income of about $24,000 a year, Ms. Holmes said. But as an independent contractor, she must pay her assistant and her taxes and buy most of her equipment. The assistant is paid the minimum wage of $4.75 an hour.
Ms. Holmes does not pay rent because her mother, who lives downstairs, owns the house.
She said she is relieved to be free of the dole but does not expect to live much better than she does now. "If you are going to do child care," Ms. Holmes said, "you have to do it for the kids. Don't do it for the money."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Women like Tanya Holmes, caring for children at her home in Chicago, may help make the welfare law work. (Cynthia Howe for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Shanda Dortch is an assistant to Tanya Holmes, a former welfare mother who provides child care that allows women like her to work. (Cynthia Howe for The New York Times) (pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS; UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; CHILD CARE CHILDREN (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (88%); FAMILY (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); BUDGETS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (69%); JOB CREATION (67%); LIBERALISM (62%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T; HOLMES, TANYA

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



28 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: In French Race, Economy Will Sour the Victor's Future

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, May 31

 BODY:
Francois Barbey, unemployed like 12.8 percent of the rest of the French working-age population, plans to vote for President Jacques Chirac's conservatives Sunday in the decisive round of the French parliamentary elections. But he says he fears that social and economic turbulence will lie ahead no matter who wins.
"The only way France will ever get going again is by joining the global economy," Mr. Barbey said, "with a common European currency that will enable our economies to stand up to the dollar and compete effectively with big American companies." 
 "But we have been spoiled for so long by the welfare state that no party is capable of getting people to make the sacrifices required for this," added Mr. Barbey, 55, who lives in the working-class Paris suburb Fontenay-sous-Bois. "It may take a civil war to get people to face reality. Things will have to blow up."
On the eve of the vote, polls showed the opposition Socialist Party, which has been out of power since 1993, within reach of a dramatic comeback that could put its leader, Lionel Jospin, in the Prime Minister's office next week.
That is not what Mr. Chirac had in mind when, seeking a mandate for the deficit-cutting required to get France into the common European currency in 1999, he called this election a year before the end of the legislative term.
The conservatives could still salvage a victory from their disastrous showing of less than 30 percent in last Sunday's first round, a result that forced Prime Minister Alain Juppe to say he would step down. But even if they do, the possibility of economic and political deadlock over the next five years has increased dramatically, with far-reaching implications for Europe as well.
Mr. Chirac now appears condemned to a result that will make it more difficult to pursue the austerity policies on which Germany and the European Union bureaucracy have been insisting to get the currency off to a strong start.
But Germany is having as much trouble as France in getting its budget deficit down to the required limit. And bankers and money market speculators are saying that the currency project might be delayed, or the currency itself watered down, unless things change.
Even without the goad of the euro, as the common currency is called, Mr. Chirac has said repeatedly that reductions in the deficit and lower taxes are necessary to get the economy into the 21st century.
But all the likely candidates to replace Mr. Juppe, including the conservatives, having heard the message that fed-up voters sent last Sunday, are now united in promising to make jobs a bigger priority.
Mr. Juppe, the personification of the impersonal European technocrat to many French voters, tried to cut back the welfare system and trim budget deficits to qualify France for membership in the currency plan. But he had to back off from his boldest step after a five-week national transportation strike at the end of 1995. He had sought to make engineers in the state rail system work past the age of 50 before retiring at nearly full pay.
As Serge Dassault, the French aviation magnate, put it, "The drama in France, and in the end the drama for the right, is that liberalism has never been tried here." He was referring to the kind of market capitalism that the United States and Britain are familiar with but that France has always resisted, with state intervention.
"Bureaucratic, labor-union, tax and financial constraints weigh too heavily on business executives," Mr. Dassault told the daily Le Figaro. "Anyone who hires people is paralyzed later if he can't let them go. So it's simple -- he prefers not to hire."
Philippe Seguin is campaigning as if he had Mr. Chirac's blessing to become Prime Minister if the conservatives win on Sunday. He took with him, wherever he went this week, France's leading free-marketeer, Alain Madelin, whom Mr. Juppe dismissed as Finance Minister after only three months in 1995. Mr. Madelin had wanted to make big cuts in pay and benefit plans for millions of French state employees whose jobs are guaranteed for life.
Mr. Jospin's Socialist platform makes no promises about cutting Government spending or trying to cap welfare payments to get France's deficit down to the limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product by the end of this year, as required by the Treaty on European Union in 1992.
"We are on the verge of an event that is going to astound Europe and raise magnificent hopes in Europe," Mr. Jospin said this week, meaning that a Socialist victory would breathe new hope into the left all over the Continent.
But the French Socialists and Communists also say they want the European currency criteria loosened so they can create 700,000 new jobs, half of them in the private sector, and get both Italy and Spain into the project from the outset. French textile manufacturers and agricultural producers fear that a strong European currency with France in and Italy and Spain out would enable those countries to undersell France on world markets.
An opinion poll taken three days before the election and published in the Swiss daily Tribune de Geneve predicted that the Socialists could win 283 votes in the 577-seat legislature on Sunday, nearly enough to govern by themselves. They would have a majority if the Communists won the 32 votes predicted by the poll, which forecast 260 seats for the conservatives.
But the Communists differ with the Socialists on several important issues. For example, they insist that the workweek be reduced immediately, with no cut in salaries, to 35 hours from 39, where Mr. Jospin has proposed to introduce the reduction over five years.
For the conservatives, Mr. Seguin says he wants to create jobs by lifting the burdens that France's state-run health and retirement pension systems place on employers, who pay about two-thirds of the cost of those programs in payroll taxes while employees pay the other third. But he does not say he will cut any of the benefits -- only that he will somehow find other ways of paying for them.
On the euro, he said the other night, "I will never go back on what France has put its signature to," even though he opposed the common currency plan in a closely fought referendum in 1992.
"All our obligations will be scrupulously fulfilled," he said, "but we will say clearly what's on our minds -- that is, to give the European central bank system the primordial assignment of favoring economic growth and jobs instead of monetary stability alone."
There is nothing in the European Union treaty to prevent Mr. Chirac, Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany and other European leaders from being flexible when they meet next spring to decide which countries are close to meeting the budget deficit criteria, laid down by central bankers led by the Germans.
But German leaders have not yet convinced voters in their country that the euro would be as sound as the mark, which most Germans believe brought them prosperity after it was established in 1948. And they have steadfastly resisted all attempts by the French or anybody else to let the new currency be more malleable, for example by allowing it to cost less in dollars than the Germans would like it to.
Opposition politicians both left and right have suggested that if the left wins on Sunday, Mr. Chirac should draw the consequences and retire, as his political mentor, de Gaulle, did after a similar fiasco in a referendum in 1969.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jacques Chirac, or at least his effigy, was forced to view a protest yesterday in Paris, as people rallied around a banner denouncing the common currency to show their disapproval of the Treaty on European Union. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; EUROPE; FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; CURRENCY LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); EURO (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; JOSPIN, LIONEL; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES) JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



29 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: One Teacher's Struggle To Encourage Tolerance;
In This Third-Grade Class, the Curriculum Includes Reading, Writing and Respect

SERIES: ROOM 3-223: Getting Along

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG 

 BODY:
Daniel Hessel thought he was being helpful when he urged a fellow third grader to put away his toys one afternoon in April.
It was a time when they were supposed to be working on their science projects. But the boy startled Daniel by telling him to mind his own business, capping his admonition with an insult. 
 "He called me a white bitch," said Daniel, whose parents are Polish immigrants.
For Daniel's teacher, Ted Kesler, the remark -- like others that have singled out students for their hair or skin color or accent -- was a sad reminder that preparing his pupils for the fourth grade and beyond entails more than just teaching them how to read and multiply.
Mr. Kesler has also struggled to teach them to avoid bigotry and to be wary of the sharp cut of some words. If they do not learn those lessons at age 8 or 9, Mr. Kesler fears, they may never learn them.
As Daniel put it one day: "Everyone knows we'll have to work with different kinds of people when we're adults. I think that the time to learn how to do it is while we're still in school."
But the lessons have not always come easily to the 30 inhabitants of Room 3-223 of Public School 75 in Manhattan. Even with the end of the school year just four weeks away, Mr. Kesler has been scrambling to retool his strategy. He has found, for instance, that using examples from literature to provide models of open-minded behavior has not been enough. So recently he has tried to coax his students to go out of their way to be kind to each other, by inviting someone to jump rope or by giving a compliment.
Yet Mr. Kesler says he is aware that the underlying tensions between his students originate far beyond the classroom and that many confront prejudice every day, whether on the subway, in a store or in their neighborhoods.
The classroom, he says, offers a perfect laboratory for them to learn how to deal with diversity. A third of Mr. Kesler's students are first-generation Americans whose parents were born in Haiti, Bangladesh, India, Egypt, Poland, Jamaica, Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic. Of his students, 11 are black, 7 are Hispanic, 7 are white, 2 are Asian and 3 are of mixed race. Mr. Kesler, 35, is the son of Eastern European immigrants, both Holocaust survivors.
The students are varied in their economic standing, as well. Some live in a nearby housing project, the Frederick Douglass Houses, others in majestic co-ops on Riverside Drive.
Much of the time, Room 3-223 is a fairly harmonious place. Simone Rivera, 9, said she felt comfortable enough in class to answer honestly when another girl, Caroline Sepulveda, asked her if she had both a mother and father at home. "I said, 'No,' " Simone recalled the other night, her mother at her side. "She said, 'Why?' So I told her, 'Because my mom is gay.' "
And Hillary Fertig, the class's 23-year-old student teacher, who attended only Jewish day schools and yeshivas until age 18, said she was greeted enthusiastically when she asked several black students to teach her the rap song they were singing. "I said, 'I'm white. Do you think I can sing it the same way as you?' " Ms. Fertig recalled. "They said, 'Of course.' "
But sometimes, the students demonstrate flashes of intolerance.
Ms. Fertig said that she once watched a Hispanic girl snatch a book from a classmate, saying, "You can't touch it because you're black." Jyoti Sharma, who has picked up many of the vocal cadences of her parents' native India, said a classmate had derided her accent as "weird."
And Seiji Iino said a boy had called him a "nigger" in the lunchroom. "He doesn't even know what it means," concluded Seiji, whose family is from Japan and Austria.
Other students say they have been taunted, not because of their race, but for other perceived weaknesses. Christopher Barrett, an excellent basketball player who is 3 feet 9 inches tall, said he had been hurt by the catcalls of girls during games at recess. They call him Shorty.
Throughout the year, Mr. Kesler sought to eradicate his pupils' biases by presenting them with role models and road maps for how best to get along. The books he has read to them feature main characters who are about their age, but whose backgrounds are mixed.
The protagonist of "J. T." is a 10-year-old boy who lives in a Harlem tenement. "Sadako and the Thousand Paper Cranes" is about a 12-year-old Japanese girl. ". . . And Now Miguel" tells the story of a shepherd boy in New Mexico.
"I choose these books first and foremost for the quality of the writing," Mr. Kesler said. "But I also want them to see that kids from all over have the same concerns, the same struggles."
Poetry, too, has figured prominently, and the students have often recited the poem, "If They Hate Me," by Arnold Adoff: "If they hate me they are sick and hurt and need some kind of help. I will stay right here."
Whenever a flash point arose, Mr. Kesler spoke with those involved in the hallway, then brought the lesson back before the class. "You're not allowed to call people names," he has told them more than once.
By keeping a firm hand on the students, Mr. Kesler said he believed he was keeping the peace. Until he saw how his class behaved when they thought he was not around. One morning in early May, during a free period when he was supposed to be outside the room, Mr. Kesler watched in disbelief as his students made it impossible for a substitute teacher to give them a math lesson.
"Out of my way!" one boy bellowed at another as he stormed from his seat, unaware that Mr. Kesler was working in a far corner. "He said that because he's stupid!" a girl shouted after a classmate gave a wrong answer. And, in a brazen attempt to distract the teacher, a boy tumbled headfirst over a bench, dissolving the room in laughter.
Unable to watch any further, Mr. Kesler called his class to order.
"I see we need to do a lot more work about learning to get along, about caring, about treating people the way we wanted to be treated," he told his charges.
At that moment, Mr. Kesler says, he realized that the helpful tips he was doling out sporadically, in an effort to build respect for others, paled in contrast to the intensive effort he was devoting to other subjects. He also discovered he was not giving his students a chance to practice what they had learned.
"I realized that it's not enough to just model good behavior for them," Mr. Kesler said. "I realized they need the same rigorous training in it as they do in social studies, as they do in math, as they do in reading."
And so, over the next few days, he made some changes.
Before, when it was time to line up for lunch, Mr. Kesler permitted the students to choose their own partners. The result: the white pupils tended to pick the white students, the black students the blacks. Now Mr. Kesler assigns the partners, making sure they do not know each other well. Initially, he said, watching the pairs find common ground was like "watching George and Elaine try to talk on 'Seinfeld.' "
"They were groping in the dark," he said. It is still awkward. But sports talk, particularly for the boys, has proven an icebreaker.
Mr. Kesler has also set aside time each day for the children to devise at least five "put-ups," compliments for classmates that are the opposite of "put-downs." They then share them, as if sending out song dedications on a radio station.
"I have one for Shanee," Lizbee Collins-Wildman said the other day. "I think she's a great group member."
For additional help, Mr. Kesler has again turned to literature, but this time to an unlikely author: Dear Abby. Last week, to illustrate the concept of "random acts of kindness," Mr. Kesler read a letter from a woman who described how a family of strangers had driven her 240 miles from an airport to a hospital to visit her sister, who was critically ill. Never mind, the writer told Abby, that she is white and the strangers were black. "They saw a person in desperate need," she wrote.
Now, every day, the students must share random niceties that people have done for them, and that they have done for others.
Is the new strategy working?
It's only been a few weeks, but Mr. Kesler says he thinks he sees progress. Last Friday at recess, for example, seven boys who had never really played together chased each other around for a game of tag. But on the same day, a girl balked at pairing up to take a spelling test with an unfamiliar classmate, saying, "She's so stupid."
Seiji says he has noticed one marked difference: the boys who play basketball each day at recess, most of whom are black, have been welcoming him into their game lately. But he says some of his classmates still act up outside the range of their teacher.
"I'm happy it's being addressed," Seiji said. "But it doesn't always make for much change."
 
Room 3-223
 
Third-grade teachers in schools throughout New York City are trying to meet Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew's goal for the school year: by summer, all third graders should be able to read at grade level. Previous articles described the efforts of Ted Kesler and his students to succeed. This is the eighth article. The series is available to computer users at The New York Times on the Web, at http://www.nytimes .com/library/national/teach.html.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ted Kesler taught his third graders at Public School 75 in Manhattan to find ways to be kind to one another. Shani Freemon gave a big hug to Tyler Newhouse in the cafeteria as Lizbee Collins-Wildman calmly drank from her thermos.; To provide role models, Mr. Kesler used books with characters of varied backgrounds. (Photographs by Michelle Agins/The New York Times) (pg. 31); Christopher Barrett, who said girls call him Shorty, practiced his defensive skills against his teacher, Ted Kesler, during a school game. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) (pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (71%); HAITI (71%); EGYPT (66%); EUROPE (66%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); POLAND (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (71%); HAITI (71%); EGYPT (66%); EUROPE (66%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); POLAND (57%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CURRICULA (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); HOLOCAUST (71%); 

PERSON: KESLER, TED; STEINBERG, JACQUES MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



30 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Albright Chides Balkan Chiefs On Flouting of Peace Accord

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, May 31

 BODY:
After a flurry of activity meant to underline the United States' commitment to peace in Bosnia, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright swung through the Balkans today, lecturing President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia and President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia about their failure to comply with the Dayton peace accords.
In meetings in Zagreb and here in Belgrade, Ms. Albright warned both leaders that their countries could face still stronger penalties if they did not do more. Washington wants them to turn over people indicted on war crimes charges and allow refugees to return to their homes as promised. 
 She even visited tiny villages in Croatia in a highly orchestrated effort to register outrage at the plight of refugees who in recent weeks have tried to return to homes they fled during the civil war, only to face harassment and violence.
"The Government at the top is thinking this is normal," she said, furiously scolding one of Mr. Tudjman's ministers, Jure Radic, after visiting a family of refugees in Donji Kukuruzari, near the border with Bosnia. "It is not normal. You should be ashamed of yourself."
For all her criticism, though, Ms. Albright received nothing concrete in return.
Mr. Tudjman resisted the pressure, as he has in talks with other American officials in recent weeks. In a meeting this morning at his presidential mansion in the hills outside Zagreb, he made it clear that his Government had no intention of allowing Serbian refugees to return, even as he disputed that it had condoned violence against refugees.
"He came right back at her," one official said afterward.
The tension of the meeting, which the official described as one of the most contentious in Ms. Albright's four months as Secretary, persisted into a joint news conference that included unusually sharp exchanges.
Ms. Albright said Croatia's future lay in the "democratic community we are building" in Europe. She appeared contemptuous toward Mr. Tudjman. "We hold Croatia to the standards of that community," she said, "not to the standards of this region's autocratic and violent past."
Mr. Tudjman, for his part, recited a litany of complaints about Serbs' treatment of Croats during the Balkan war -- as he had when meeting privately with Ms. Albright.
"Such incidents," he said of the attacks on refugees, "cannot and should not be viewed in isolation from the past."
The meetings today reflected the frustration of American efforts to force Mr. Tudjman, Mr. Milosevic and the Bosnian leaders to comply with pledges they made in the peace accords, which, 18 months after they were negotiated near Dayton, Ohio, have stalled.
Ms. Albright's aides insisted that they had not expected to win dramatic concessions, but rather had hoped to pump new energy into efforts to create a single, unified state in Bosnia.
Her visit here came a day after the United States and its NATO allies concluded a conference in Portugal with a declaration warning the parties that they faced further economic and diplomatic penalties. In particular, the allies demanded that the Balkan leaders stop harboring people indicted for war crimes and allow thousands of people forced from their homes in "ethnic cleansing" to return.
It remains to be seen whether the Administration's reinvigorated drive -- or at least reinvigorated words -- can produce significant results. Ms. Albright's predecessor, Warren Christopher, made a similar push when he flew through the Balkans in February 1996 only to see resistance to Dayton's principles pick up again.
The depth of the enmity that remains in the Balkans was clear this afternoon as Ms. Albright toured the Croatian villages. In Prevrsac, a small group of Croats forced from their homes in Serbian-held parts of Bosnia gathered to watch the spectacle of an American Secretary of State holding a news conference in front of a home burned out earlier this month by a mob protesting the return of Serbian refugees.
"During the war, they killed our people," one of them, Luka Vuckovic, said. "How can we live with them now?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CROATIA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (88%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); DAYTON, OH, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; CROATIA; SERBIA; CROATIA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (79%); OHIO, USA (88%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); DAYTON, OH, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BOSNIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES REFUGEES (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); IMMIGRATION (75%); WAR CRIMES (75%); INDICTMENTS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); TUDJMAN, FRANJO (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (73%); STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



31 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-14
 
China's Pride Rises as Days Count Down for Hong Kong
The return of Hong Kong, in just a month, is becoming a national preoccupation in China. To recover Hong Kong, in the Chinese view, is one of the most glorious events in modern history, righting a pernicious wrong of the 19th century. But lurking underneath the pride is an uneasy mix of jealousy and superiority. 1
 
Post-Vote Woes for France
After today's elections, France faces an increased possibility of economic and political deadlock, with far-reaching implications for Europe. President Chirac will doubtless find it harder to pursue austerity policies, since all likely candidates for Prime Minister promise to make jobs a bigger priority. 14 

Trading Bloc Admits Myanmar
The Asian trading bloc Asean said it would admit Myanmar, the former Burma, brushing aside concerns about human rights. It also agreed to let in Laos and Cambodia. 10
 
Pope Praises Polish Role
Pope John Paul II expressed delight at being home in Poland, and said the nation was well qualified to become a complete member of Europe. 14
 
Clinton Sees Safety in Europe
President Clinton told West Point cadets that the mere prospect of NATO's expansion had increased stability in Europe. 12
 
Secretary of State Albright and President Tudjman of Croatia held a rancorous discussion of Croatia's record on complying with peace accords. 8
 
Russia-Ukraine Treaty Signed
The Presidents of Russia and Ukraine signed a friendship treaty to try to improve the weak bonds between the Slavic states. 13
 
NATIONAL 18-28
 
E.P.A. Chief Holds Firm On Rules for Cleaner Air
Carol M. Browner, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, continues to defend doggedly the agency's proposal to toughen air-quality standards, despite opposition from major industry groups and senior members of Congress. But Ms. Browner insists that the current standards do not adequately protect the public from the effects of breathing soot and smog. 1
 
Campaign Remedies Elusive
The states grappling with campaign financing issues are finding that solutions are hard to find and often threaten to create new and even worse problems than the ones they are meant to repair. 1
 
Questions Left in Bomb Case
For the relatives of the 168 people killed two years ago in the Oklahoma City bombing, the trial of Timothy J. McVeigh has left crucial questions unanswered, like the question of why the attack occurred. The case has gone to the jury in Denver. 18
 
Marine Shooting at Issue
A grand jury will investigate the fatal shooting of an 18-year-old by a marine who was part of a team assisting the Border Patrol. The death was the first civilian fatality since the Defense Department created a joint panel in 1989 to assist in drug interdiction. 22
 
New Tactic for AIDS
Medicaid may be expanded to pay for potent, costly drugs that can keep people infected with H.I.V. from developing AIDS. 20
 
Military Sex Inquiry Expands
A two-star Navy admiral and the Army's top lawyer face accusations of sexual misconduct. 24
 
NEW YORK 31-37
 
That Day, in Central Park
The day that a 44-year-old real estate broker was viciously killed in Central Park, the two 15-year-olds suspected of his murder spent hours drinking and wandering in and around the area. Daphne Abdela was a familiar presence there and at Carl Schurz, the park surrounding Gracie Mansion. Christopher Vasquez was newer to this scene. 1
 
Reading, Writing and Respect
In Room 3-223, Ted Kesler has been struggling to teach his third graders to read. Along the way, he has discovered other lessons are necessary, too. Like respecting each other's differences. 31
 
Privatization Plan Shaky
City Hall's plan to turn Coney Island Hospital over to a private, for-profit company is threatening to unravel over several issues, including labor and court disputes, changes in tax regulations and possible financial problems facing the buyers. 31
 
OBITUARIES 39
 
Sydney Guilaroff
The chief stylist for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, who gave Claudette Colbert her bangs and cut, curled, coiffed and cosseted virtually every MGM star in a 40-year reign as Hollywood's most creative and celebrated hairdresser, he was 89. 39
 
TV Listings 38
 
Weddings 44

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); HONG KONG (94%); CHINA (94%); MYANMAR (93%); FRANCE (92%); CROATIA (92%); UKRAINE (91%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (73%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (73%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); HONG KONG (94%); CHINA (94%); MYANMAR (93%); FRANCE (92%); CROATIA (92%); UKRAINE (91%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (86%); ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); HISTORY (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); AIDS & HIV (70%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); AIR QUALITY (68%); SMOG (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (66%); MEDICAID (65%); SHOOTINGS (64%); JURY TRIALS (64%); BORDER CONTROL (63%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); DRUG INTERDICTION (60%); GRAND JURY (60%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); JACQUES CHIRAC (55%); CAROL BROWNER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



32 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: For New Jersey Voters, A Primary Confusion

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

DATELINE: LINDEN, N.J., May 31

 BODY:
Did Pauline Halas, a longtime resident of this working-class city and a dedicated Democrat, know which candidate for governor she would support in the Tuesday primary?
"Oh, yes, for sure," Mrs. Halas, 66, said the other afternoon, standing by a bus stop on North Wood Avenue and nodding vigorously. "Just give me a minute and I'll think of his name." 
 After a moment, it came to her: United States Representative Robert E. Andrews, a resident of southern New Jersey who is running for the Democratic nomination against State Senator James E. McGreevey of Woodbridge and Michael Murphy, a former Morris County prosecutor who lives in Chatham. Mrs. Halas, who is fighting plans to build a toxic-waste incinerator here, said she had settled on Mr. Andrews after reading his positions on the environment.
"He sounds like he's against dumping and polluting," she said. "So I'm going to take a chance."
If conversations on Thursday with two dozen people who live and work in Linden are any indication, Mrs. Halas is not the only one whose thoughts about the Democrats hoping to challenge Gov. Christine Todd Whitman are muddled.
Although most people interviewed said they would vote in the primary, fewer than half knew whom they would support. Only a few were familiar with the candidates' backgrounds and positions. Their comments suggested that even in a city where Democrats outnumbered Republicans by a 10-to-1 ratio, the primary race had proved uninspiring.
But the voters in Linden did seem to have one firm goal in common: making sure that Mrs. Whitman, a popular Republican who is uncontested in the primary, does not win re-election in November.
The candidate who appears to have the best chance in Linden, an aging industrial city just off the New Jersey Turnpike in Union County, is Mr. McGreevey, whose hometown of Woodbridge is just 10 miles down the turnpike. He has the support of the county Democratic organization and Mayor John T. Gregorio, who says Mr. McGreevey, the Mayor of Woodbridge, understands the problems facing cities. And since he is more or less a local boy, people are far more likely to recognize him than Mr. Andrews or Mr. Murphy, who hails from the affluent suburbs of Morris County, about 25 miles away.
"That one who's the Mayor in Woodbridge, he's the one that's spouting about reducing the auto insurance, right?" said Harold Dorin, the owner of Nason's, a department store. "I know him better than the others, but I'm going to do a little more reading first."
Even geographical proximity is not necessarily enough to give Mr. McGreevey a high profile in Linden, whose 36,700 residents are mostly white and middle-aged, with no college education. They are people like Carol Furnback, a single mother who said she worked 80 hours a week running the All Aboard Cafe, next to the train station, and had no time to watch television or read newspapers. Ms. Furnback said she knew nothing about the three Democratic candidates. But she said she would vote for anyone but Mrs. Whitman.
"Her I don't like at all," Ms. Furnback, 41, said. "She tells us she's going to do so much, then she doesn't do anything. I have a friend whose taxes dropped $30 a year after her tax cut, but then his property taxes went up $500. Where's the good in that?"
Ms. Furnback voted for Mrs. Whitman in 1993. So did 43 percent of the voters here, a startling number given the strong Democratic presence in town. Several of the self-described party faithful here said they had rebelled four years ago and voted for Mrs. Whitman. They were annoyed at Gov. Jim Florio's $2.8 billion tax increase, they said, and excited by the prospect of a female governor. But the novelty has worn off, they said. In particular, many blamed Mrs. Whitman for their high car insurance rates.
"I'm not crazy on politics, but I want to get rid of Christie Todd Whitman," said Neil Suydam, 25, a salesman who said he paid $2,500 a year to insure his 1985 Cadillac. "All of the sudden my car insurance went through the roof this year, and I don't see her doing anything about it."
Chris Quinn, a school crossing guard who has three children, said she supported Mrs. Whitman in 1993 even though she was a registered Democrat. But while Mrs. Quinn, 48, said she appreciated Mrs. Whitman's tax cuts, she said she resented the Governor's mostly paying for those cuts by reducing state pension contributions by more than $3 billion.
Mrs. Quinn and her husband, also a public employee, oppose the Governor's plan to borrow $2.75 billion to help close a deficit in the state pension system.
"She's not from my level of economics," Mrs. Quinn said, standing on the corner in her orange crossing-guard vest. "She doesn't know what it's like to be in our shoes. She's born of a higher class than we are, and she doesn't know what it's like to struggle."
While most people interviewed here said they had no idea whether Mr. Andrews and Mr. Murphy empathized with the working class, several believed Mr. McGreevey did. He grew up in Carteret, a hardscrabble city with almost as many oil refineries as Linden. And as the Mayor of Woodbridge, they said, he might understand the plight of cities like Linden, whose tax base has shrunk as factories have closed.
"They say he cleaned up Woodbridge a little bit," said Steven Cohn, 35, a city employee for 17 years. "Maybe he'd try to keep our property taxes down and stop that toxic incinerator."
Mr. Gregorio, the Mayor, said that despite the apparent lack of interest, turnout in Linden would probably be heavy on Tuesday because the three local Democratic clubs had called every registered Democrat in the city and urged all to vote. On Tuesday, volunteers will call Democrats who have not voted by late afternoon and remind them, he said.
Most people interviewed said they needed no reminding -- only guidance on whom to support. Howard Rosen, who has owned the Linden Travel Bureau on South Wood Avenue since 1950, said he liked Mr. Murphy's proposal to raise the cigarette tax by 25 cents a pack to support education -- but only after a reporter told him about the proposal.
"I'm very much a Democrat, but somehow this primary has passed me by," Mr. Rosen, 70, said. "I do like the fact that in the debates, they have emphasized Whitman's faults and not each other's. But none of these guys really jumps off the page. Where's the brilliance? Where's the humanity?"
Part of the problem, Mr. Rosen said, is that many voters believe no Democrat has a chance against Mrs. Whitman, whose popularity has diminished only slightly recently.
"I just don't see her losing," Mr. Rosen said. "I can't imagine any of these guys are going to make a difference."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven Cohn: City employee -- "They say he [Mr. McGreevey] cleaned up Woodbridge a little bit. Maybe he'd try to keep our property taxes down and stop that toxic incinerator."; Carol Furnback: Cafe manager -- "I have a friend whose taxes dropped $30 a year after her [Mrs. Whitman's] tax cut, but then his property taxes went up $500. Where's the good in that?"; Howard Rosen: Owner of a travel bureau -- "I'm very much a Democrat, but somehow this primary has passed me by. I do like the fact that in the debates, they have emphasized Whitman's faults and not each other's." (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey showing the location of Linden: Many Democrats in Linden, N.J., are unfamiliar with the issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; LINDEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PRIMARIES; ELECTION ISSUES PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (69%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (55%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (54%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) ROBERT E ANDREWS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



33 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: TOP E.P.A. OFFICIAL NOT BACKING DOWN ON AIR STANDARDS

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31

 BODY:
Major industry groups are protesting, senior members of Congress are complaining and the White House economic advisers are balking. But Carol M. Browner, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, continues to doggedly defend the agency's proposal to toughen air-quality standards.
In one forum after another, from grueling daylong Congressional hearings to public debates with her opponents, Ms. Browner has insisted that nothing she has heard in six months has changed her fundamental view that the current standards do not adequately protect the public from the effects of breathing soot and smog. 
 Toughening the standards, as the E.P.A. proposed in November, would put hundreds of counties out of compliance with the Clean Air Act and force states to impose costly controls on emissions of ozone and fine chemical particles, mostly caused by burning fuels.
A final rule has to be issued in July, and as the E.P.A. prepares its ultimate recommendation, an intense debate over the best course to take is roiling the Clinton Administration.
While Ms. Browner has staunchly defended the proposed rule, the White House has maintained almost total silence about it. No top officials there have spoken out in defense of her proposal. And in closed meetings, other aides have sought to water it down, people involved in the review said.
With the deadline approaching for a decision on what could be the most significant environmental rule making of the decade, one question is whether the political dynamics strengthen Ms. Browner's hand or weaken it.
There are Republicans and Democrats on both sides of the issue, and major geographical fault lines as well, with Northeastern states favoring tougher standards and Midwestern ones tending to resist them.
The decision is especially significant because Vice President Al Gore will play a major role -- probably the decisive one -- in deciding whether to back up Ms. Browner, who has long been a close associate. Mr. Gore's actions could well affect how enthusiastically environmentalists support his Presidential effort in 2000.
"Since this is the top priority issue for the national environmental community at this time, any weakening of public health protection by the White House would certainly be a huge negative for Vice President Gore that would not be forgotten," said Gene Karpinski, president of U.S. Public Interest Research Groups.
Mr. Karpinksi is chairman this year of a committee of leaders of major environmental organizations known as the Green Group.
Ms. Browner's adamant defense of tougher standards is something of a personal gamble. She has gone far enough out on a limb that any significant weakening would be widely viewed as a chastening defeat. A decision to move forward with the new standards would be a significant show of her influence in the Administration.
In the last few years, Ms. Browner has fought and won other environmental battles, over the agency's budget and Republican efforts to weaken environmental regulations.
Ms. Browner insists that the law and the science of air quality support her stance and that the mountain of comments filed by advocates and opponents alike have not swayed the agency in any fundamental way.
"While I have not made a final decision, I can tell you that we have not found anything in the public comments, no new science, that causes us to question the science of what we are proposing," she said in a panel discussion on Wednesday at the National Press Club.
But environmentalists said they were worried that the White House would overrule Ms. Browner and weaken the proposed rule.
The President's economic advisers have pushed for a set of standards that would be much closer to the status quo than what the E.P.A. proposed in November. For most of the last year, economic advisers have been sympathetic to industry's complaints that the rules would cost far more than they are worth.
Kathleen McGinty, the White House's top environmental aide, insisted in an interview that the ultimate decision would be based on public health, and not costs.
"It is not at all about the money," she said of the review that is under way. "These are health standards."
The Clean Air Act explicitly requires that the standards be set without regard to cost.
"The requirement that needs to be met at the end of the day is you have to protect the public health with an adequate margin of safety," Ms. McGinty said, citing the language of the Clean Air Act. "That is the policy decision. What constitutes the adequate margin of safety? Because there is always more protection you could give. There is always more that you can do."
Ms. McGinty is just one of the White House advisers with a role in the discussions. Others are Sally Katzen, the top regulatory official at the Office of Management and Budget, and Gene Sperling, assistant to the President for economic policy.
Ms. Browner has described Mr. Sperling's role as "honest broker" between competing views.
Advocates of the tougher standard, meanwhile, say they are hoping that beyond the epidemiological studies showing that air pollution is linked with sickness and death, the White House will pay attention to new polls that show that pollution is still a potent political issue.
A survey done for environmental groups this week by Penn, Schoen & Berland Associates, a public opinion agency that also conducts polling for the White House, found that 56 percent of respondents strongly favored stricter standards, with 27 percent saying they somewhat favored the proposal. Twelve percent opposed toughening the rules and 5 percent said they did not know.
There is not much support for tougher standards in Congress, but polls like the one this week suggest that Congress might be reluctant to overturn such a decision.
Senator John H. Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, who has great influence over environmental matters, has proposed moderating the E.P.A. approach.
Mr. Chafee would maintain smog standards at the current level of stringency while changing somewhat how violations are measured. He would commit the agency to regulate fine particles of soot later if further research proved that such pollution caused illness.
Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, is leading a similar effort among House Democrats against the rules.
Congress has the right to reject any major Federal regulation, under a law enacted in the 104th Congress.
The new rules have generated extensive opposition from major industries, including oil, utility and automobile companies, and from many state and local officials. But public health agencies in the states have spoken out in favor of the rules, as have many governors, including William F. Weld of Massachusetts and other Northeasterners.
The National Association of Manufacturers, which is leading the drive by electric companies, oil and coal producers, auto makers and other major industries against the proposed standards, has called for its members to lobby President Clinton to reject the E.P.A. proposal.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carol M. Browner, defender of tougher air quality standards. (Amy Thompson for The New York Times) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; SOOT; SMOG; OZONE; STATES (US) AIR QUALITY REGULATION (92%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); PARTICULATE MATTER (90%); SMOG (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); BUDGETS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; BROWNER, CAROL M (ADMR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) CAROL BROWNER (91%); AL GORE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



34 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Montana Landowners Fight Public on Acess to Trout Streams

BYLINE: By JIM ROBBINS 

DATELINE: SHERIDAN, Mont., May 28

 BODY:
As wealthy out-of-staters buy ranches along prime trout streams in Montana, a battle is erupting over access to publicly owned rivers that flow through private land.
 The fight is most heated along the Ruby River, a small waterway with a good trout population flowing through a valley of landowners who have put up fences to keep people off most of the river's lower stretch. 
 "People who grew up fishing this river can't get on it," said Tom Harman, a local fishing guide who contends that the Ruby has become an elite reserve. "I haven't wet a boot in the Ruby in three years."
 Trout fishing was once an important part of life in this small ranching community.
 But as the rest of the country has discovered the fishing in Montana -- widely considered to be among the best in the world -- many wealthy fishermen with a passion for the sport have purchased ranches here in the Ruby Valley and along other fertile trout streams. And many longtime ranchers who used to allow people to fish on the river have made extra income by leasing "trespass rights" exclusively to outfitters who take paying clients to fish there.
The conflict comes because the Montana Stream Access Law says the public owns the rivers. For recreation, including hunting and fishing, everyone has a right to get access to virtually any waterway that flows through private land. But many landowners have put up fences to keep people away from the streams. The matter is being reviewed by state officials.
 Some local businessmen, including Mr. Harman, say that lack of access to the Ruby River has kept anglers away and hurt the town's economy. A state study showed that in 1993, there were nearly 4,000 fishing days logged on the Ruby River, while that number was more than 10,000 in 1989.
 There have been a number of complaints from fishermen who have been yelled at and photographed and who have even heard warning shots fired as they fished prized trout streams flowing through private land, which is legal as long as they stay within the high-water marks.
 Some landowners "erroneously are trying to lay claim to a public resource," said Dick Oswald, a fisheries biologist for the Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks in nearby Dillon. "I suspect they didn't do their homework before they bought land. This is America, not feudal Europe."
 In one case on Big Sheep Creek near Lima, Jack Atcheson says he was fishing the stream, which runs through a ranch owned by a Californian, Renee S. Thompson, an outspoken opponent of stream access, when she and an employee fired at a target with a pistol and a rifle. He said they had meant to intimidate him, and he is suing Ms. Thompson.
 "It's out-of-state interests who want to make Montana what they want, instead of what it is," said Jim McDermand, chairman of Organization United for River and Streams, or Ours, a coalition of 21 groups that was formed two months ago to fight efforts to restrict public access to the state's waterways. Responding to an outcry by sporting groups and local residents, state wildlife officials are in the process of buying or leasing five sites along the Ruby River where the public can gain access.
 Such access concerns local landowners who fear that the fisheries will be ruined. "Montana has the last of the wild trout fisheries; the rest are shot," said Reid Rosenthal, president of Country Roads, a company in Sheridan that manages many ranches that have been bought by wealthy fishermen and sells fishing vacations along the Ruby River.
 Mr. Rosenthal said he and his clients did not oppose public access to the Ruby but wanted a change in regulations that allow each angler to keep five trout a day. Mr. Rosenthal said allowing such catches would destroy the fishery.
 But proponents of public access point to a memorandum Mr. Rosenthal wrote to his ranch-owning clients in support of fund-raising for a campaign to overturn the Stream Access Law by taking it to Federal District Court, and the Supreme Court, if necessary. In the memorandum , made public by the pro-access Montana Wildlife Federation, Mr. Rosenthal said, "Don't kid yourself, this situation is really one of social resentment, jealousy and envy, not fishing access."
 That prompted outdoors groups to begin their campaign, Ours, to preserve the stream-access law.
 Mr. Rosenthal says he no longer supports a campaign to repeal the access law. "I wish I'd never written that damned thing," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A dispute over public access to the Ruby River in Montana, known for good trout fishing, has intensified as landowners' fences block anglers. (Perry Backus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUBY RIVER (MONTANA); UNITED STATES (95%); MONTANA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; TROUT; FISHING, SPORT RIVERS (90%); SPORT FISHING (90%); FISHES (90%); WILDLIFE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL TRESPASS (77%); MAMMALS (77%); FISHERIES (76%); SPORT HUNTING (72%); SHOOTINGS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); DISMISSALS (61%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (61%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (57%); 

PERSON: ROBBINS, JIM

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



35 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Fears of New Rent Laws, Beyond Manhattan

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
Tina Gilbertson pays $711.34 a month for a Greenwich Village walk-up with a bedroom smaller than some bathrooms, and she feels lucky to have it. But there are reasons -- the financial uncertainties of an acting career and a boyfriend she may one day want to live with -- why she might not stay long in the Spartan apartment it took her six months to find.
So she takes a dim view of Gov. George E. Pataki's proposal to deregulate apartment rents when tenants move out or die. "Vacant apartments will be a lot more expensive, and I won't be able to afford anything else in Manhattan," she said. "Either I'd be trapped in this apartment, or I'd have to move out of Manhattan, maybe to another part of the city." 
 Talk like that is scaring people in the other boroughs, particularly Brooklyn and Queens, who fear that the Governor's plan would mean a mass migration of people out of Manhattan into their neighborhoods, increasing the demand for housing there and pushing up rents. In addition to letting the owners of vacant apartments charge whatever the market will bear, a policy known as vacancy decontrol, Mr. Pataki's proposal would deregulate the rents for all apartments whose residents earn $175,000 a year or more.
"It's not just that there's going to be a flood tide of people out of Manhattan," said Bernice Siegal, a board member of the Queens League of United Tenants. "These will be people who are used to paying higher rents, and many of them will have the ability to pay very high rents. You're going to see much higher rents out our way."
In the last month, that concern has become a regular topic among Democrats, who make up the majority in the State Assembly, as they plot strategy in the fight over rent laws that the state government has been obsessed with all year. At first, the political debate focused largely on Manhattan, following the conventional wisdom that deregulation would push up rents most steeply in the southern half of that borough, where rents are already highest and vacancy rates lowest. But as they begin to contemplate the ripple effect in their districts, legislators in the boroughs outside Manhattan have become more concerned about the Governor's plan, stiffening the Assembly Democrats' resolve to maintain the current laws.
Assemblywoman Melinda R. Katz, Democrat of Queens, is among them.
"Thousands of people in Manhattan who cannot afford to live there anymore are going to start looking for nice neighborhoods in Queens and Brooklyn, they're going to end up taking the apartments that are there, and the rents are going to go up," Ms. Katz said. "A lot of the renters in my district are older and they're not that well off, and they won't be able to afford it."
To some degree, the effect is already under way. Rents in Manhattan rose sharply in 1996, as the vibrant economy increased competition for apartments there. Real estate professionals say that even before the fight over the rent laws began, higher rents in Manhattan had begun to lead to an increase in demand and prices for apartments in the more expensive neighborhoods of the other boroughs, like Forest Hills, Brooklyn Heights and Riverdale. And tenant advocates charge that landlords have begun to raise rents this year, in anticipation of a boom brought on by deregulation, though no up-to-date figures are available on average rents.
Vacancy decontrol and luxury decontrol would have the greatest effect on Manhattan, analysts say, because it has the highest concentration of wealthy renters and rent-stabilized apartments, the ones that would be affected by vacancy decontrol. In Manhattan, 61 percent of the rental apartments are rent-stabilized, compared with 54 percent in the Bronx, 43 percent in both Brooklyn and Queens, and 19 percent on Staten Island.
At the same time, the other boroughs have a large number of unregulated units, where landlords can raise rents as high as the market will bear, even for long-term tenants. In Manhattan, just 17 percent of apartments are unregulated, but in Brooklyn it is 40 percent and in Queens it is 46 percent. Public housing and rent-controlled apartments make up much of the remainder of the rental market.
Florence Fisher, 63, who lives in Flushing, Queens, said that when talk of deregulation began in December, she and her neighbors did not think it would affect them much. But as the year has worn on, she said, and they have considered the consequences of Mr. Pataki's plan, their fear has grown.
"If I were living in Manhattan and I had to pay $2,000 to get a new place, I'd look to Brooklyn, I'd look to Queens," Ms. Fisher, who works for a housing preservation group, said. "Those people are going to be all over our neighborhoods."
And in Manhattan, it is not hard to find people, like Ms. Gilbertson, who are eyeing the other side of the East River.
Karen Norden says she has been thinking about leaving her one-bedroom apartment on the Upper East Side when her lease runs out in September, because the $977.60 monthly rent is too much for her. Though her home is rent-stabilized, the rent increases allowed by the city's Rent Guidelines Board in the last 10 years have outstripped inflation.
"If they do vacancy decontrol, there's no way I could afford another apartment in Manhattan," said Ms. Norden, a 37-year-old social worker. "So I'm either stuck here, in an apartment that's getting too expensive for me, or I move back to Queens. And if I move, I would never, ever have a rent-stabilized apartment again."
But experts are divided as to whether there is reason behind the fears.
Vacancy decontrol and luxury decontrol could not possibly displace enough Manhattanites to be more than a blip in the vast housing markets of the other boroughs, said Frank Braconi, executive director of Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York, a nonprofit policy research group. "It would probably be fewer than 20,000 families absorbed into a market of a couple of million units," he said.
Part of the fear, he said, is based on an over-estimation of the effects of decontrol in Manhattan. While the apartments that have been true bargains would see large rent increases if they were deregulated, most, he said, would not.
Elizabeth A. Roistacher, a professor of economics at Queens College and the City University Graduate Center who has studied the rental market, agrees with much of Mr. Braconi's argument about the long-term impact of deregulation, but she argues that in the short run, there would be great turmoil.
"At first you'll see landlords asking for quite high rents," she said. "They will soon find that they often can't get them, so the asking prices will eventually come down. But those initial asking prices will cause tremendous dislocation, motivating people to move, to switch to ownership or to rent outside of Manhattan."
Peter Marcuse, a professor of urban planning at Columbia University, foresees dire effects from vacancy decontrol. "Within a few years, lower-income and middle-income people will find it nearly impossible to find affordable housing in the lower half of Manhattan," he said. "You'll see a huge exodus to the outer boroughs. The demand for housing there will go up sharply, and so will rents."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (85%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



36 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: With California Booming, Its Governor Is Mellowing

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., May 30

 BODY:
After six frustrating years of nonstop struggle with natural disasters, a sick economy and testy issues like welfare, crime, education, immigration and affirmative action, Gov. Pete Wilson says the political worm has finally turned for him.
Fires, floods and earthquakes no longer pummel the Golden State one after another. 
 The California economy, the largest in the nation and the seventh largest in the world, is booming again, creating record numbers of jobs, unexpected windfalls in tax revenue and surprising reductions in unemployment payouts.
Crime is down, education spending is up, welfare overhaul is popular with both Democrats and Republicans, and affirmative action and illegal immigration are now national issues, not just California issues.
"What a change!" Mr. Wilson exulted the other day.
Not the least of the change is the change that recently has occurred in the Governor himself.
Mr. Wilson, a 63-year-old Republican who in 35 years in public life has also been a Presidential candidate, a United States Senator, the Mayor of San Diego and a member of both the California Assembly and Senate, has mellowed.
With only 19 months left to serve as California's chief executive, some of the old hard-right edge is gone.
Maybe he lost it. Maybe he deliberately filed it down now that Gingrich-style Republicanism is out of vogue. Or maybe he has begun to worry about history's judgment.
Whatever the case, there is a broad smile where once there was a granite mask. Sometimes he is downright warm and fuzzy, as when he is extending a helping government hand to people with AIDS. Sometimes he talks about teachers as mentors to the nation's future rather than as greedy government employees.
He has begun to throw around words like "legacy." The other day he even referred to welfare recipients as "our fellow Californians," an embrace that political analysts, newspaper editorialists and Wilson fans and critics are still dissecting.
When Mr. Wilson took office six years ago, he brought with him a save-thy-malingering-self view of welfare mothers, struggling immigrants and uneducated inner-city children. That approach to governing was good enough to get him re-elected with ease in a state that was foundering in the worst economic downturn in decades and was cutting rather than adding social programs.
But it also was an approach that led, fairly or unfairly, to periodic accusations that Mr. Wilson, who early in his political life was a moderate, was not above exploiting the downtrodden for political gain.
In time, his job approval rating sagged below 40 percent. It has not rebounded -- at least not yet.
Now comes the new Pete Wilson, saying that he wants to help welfare mothers, struggling immigrants and inner-city children by offering to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on things like child care and extra teachers.
What is more, he actually has the money in hand to do what he proposes because the newly revived California economy has pumped an additional $3 billion into the state treasury.
"It's a better problem to have," he said of the sudden cash influx in an hourlong discussion of his current hopes and dreams for himself and the nation's biggest, richest and most politically important state.
He insisted he has not changed at heart, or opportunistically flip-flopped as some of his critics argue. What has changed is the state's bank balance, he said.
The Republican leader in the State Assembly, Curt Pringle, agrees.
"He's got some money to spend for the first time in five or six years," Mr. Pringle said. "That's why he's all of a sudden talking about a lot of new things. He's finally got something that he genuinely can promote."
The one thing Mr. Wilson is not talking about is what he plans to do when he leaves the Governor's office for good, unable to seek a third term under California law.
Will he run again for President -- the first run, in 1996, went nowhere -- or might he try again for the Senate? Will he sign on with a big law firm or simply head back home to San Diego?
"Well, I've given it all some thought," he replied. "But I'm preoccupied right now with trying to move my agenda for the balance of my time here. Still, this is the kind of thing I like to do. I'm not ruling anything out for the future. What I'd rule in is some role that would permit me to continue to try to effect policy."
He still talks of overhauling welfare and education, still wants to crack down on crooks and illegal immigrants, still wants to put an end to affirmative action. Whereas in January he was arguing that welfare needed to be overhauled to assure that taxpayers "no longer subsidize idleness or promiscuity and no longer suffer when illegitimacy hatches into social pathology," he now not only refers warmly to welfare recipients as "our fellow Californians" but argues that the state has a "moral imperative" to help them escape the grinding, degrading clutches of poverty.
He has proposed spending almost $400 million on child care and job training for welfare recipients, a Democratic approach to reform that led the Speaker of the Democrat-controlled Assembly, Cruz Bustamante, to say, "This shows real progress."
He has also proposed spending $200 million to hire extra teachers so that the size of the average secondary school class can be cut from 30 to 20 pupils.
And he has called for spending $100 million or so to institute a testing program to monitor the academic progress of the state's secondary school pupils, who in recent years have ranked near the bottom in national surveys of academic achievement.
These education proposals seem especially striking in view of Mr. Wilson's earlier criticism of teachers as being more interested in salaries than students and in view of his earlier willingness to cut academic jobs and use the savings to build prisons and hire guards to run them.
"The Governor himself is in disagreement with his past," Assemblyman Jack Scott of Altadena, a leading Democrat on education issues, quipped the other day.
Equally striking is the current Wilson approach to affirmative action and illegal immigration, issues he promoted with great gusto in his first six years as Governor.
Today, he steers clear of both. If asked to comment, he makes the same arguments he has always made: that affirmative action is nothing less than reverse discrimination and that the Federal Government is "derelict" in stopping illegal border-crossing. But he seldom volunteers such comments any longer.
Is there some deeper meaning in all this?
"Probably not," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe of the Center for Politics and Economics at the Claremont Graduate School, near Los Angeles. "Good politicians always have a lot of things going, and it's not always neat and clean. No doubt Pete Wilson is worried about how history will view him. No doubt he's ruling nothing out in terms of the next Presidential election. And no doubt he wants to do things that will help fellow California Republicans in coming elections.
"That's probably about the size of it all."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pete Wilson has 19 months left to serve as California's Governor. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (58%); GOLDEN STATE IRRIGATION SERVICES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); WELFARE FRAUD (78%); CRIME RATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); TRENDS (75%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (52%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; WILSON, PETE (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



37 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 30; Column 4; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: THE CAPITALIST;
Mike Milken Isn't History

BYLINE: By Michael Lewis

 BODY:
A publicist had already told me who ponied up the money to publish The Knowledge Exchange Business Encyclopedia, which may be the most expensively produced business reference book in history. But I'd like to think I could have identified the patron's hand simply from the entries in the book. Here, for example, is how the encyclopedia explains "Junk Bonds":
During the 1980's 'junk bonds" -- or high-yield bonds -- were given a consistently bad rap by the media, the press and regulators ... blamed for everything from the S&L crisis to the recession. But the general consensus seems to have come full circle in the 1990's, as more investors embrace the junk-bond market (most now calling it high yield). 
 Only one man on the planet cares enough about junk bonds to publish an encyclopedia that insists they are now more commonly known as something else. (They aren't.) His picture is at the front of the book -- on a chart that traces the history of commerce from early Uruk business texts (circa 3000 B.C.) to the merger of Walt Disney and Capital Cities (circa 1995) -- and the description beneath his photo reads, "The most important financial thinker of the century." He is, of course, Michael Milken.
The business encyclopedia is the first volume in a library of reference texts published by Knowledge Exchange, a new California company financed by Milken and run by Milken's trusted former assistant, Lorraine Spurge. In large part, the book is an encyclopedia. For instance, it offers admirably clear definitions of the absurd jargon created by business folks to keep their spouses confused (span of control?), plus all sorts of strange and wonderful historical facts and figures. In business, as in life, ignorance is often mistaken for stupidity, and so it is a simple act of humanity to make available to the nation's C.E.O.'s simple explanations of such terms as Eurocurrency and Nasdaq.
But the Business Encyclopedia is not only an encyclopedia. It pushes a view of commerce, and especially of recent financial events, so blatantly partisan that it amounts to a hostile takeover of history. The section at the back of the book devoted to "Leadership," for example, is crowded with Milken's former clients -- Ted Turner, John Malone, Henry Kravis, Rupert Murdoch. A casual reader might think prosperity did not exist before the junk bond. And every word or phrase associated with 1980's finance is colored by Milkenesque sentiment. (Takeover: "After the number of high-profile takeovers in the 1980's, many investors and onlookers became concerned about their effects, fearing that takeovers -- particularly hostile takeovers -- led to layoffs, leverage and dismembered companies. But the record shows this generalization to be misleading.")
The overall effect is to bundle useful knowledge with propaganda. (Bundling: "Selling a package of products for one total price. For example, travel services offer a variety of packages for Walt Disney World that might include, in addition to air fare, admission to the park, lodging, some meals and shuttle service.") The encyclopedia represents a bid by the Milken camp to alter public perceptions not just of Milken himself but of the financial 80's. It will be followed shortly by a library of similar works: encyclopedias of business history, corporate finance and marketing; dictionaries of entrepreneurism; biographies of companies financed by Milken, and perhaps a memoir by Spurge built around the Milken years.
Milken himself has already written -- or at any rate commissioned -- two books about his career, an autobiography composed with the ghostwriter William Novak and a collection of pensees entitled "Unconventional Wisdom." This last book, though just shy of finished, already is advertised in the Knowledge Exchange's catalogue. "Michael has a fear of completion," Spurge says. "But he'll publish. Because he says he will."
When a fallen businessman starts publishing books to correct the record, he no longer is thinking like a businessman. He's thinking like a politician. He's trying to shape public opinion not for money (which Milken continues to accumulate in huge sums) but for posterity. The popular impression is that Milken was a criminal who got rich by screwing up the economy. Milken still hopes that history will come to see his financial career as an engine for dramatic, positive social change. He may be right about his career. But he's wrong about history.
History may be the last place on earth where businessmen remain powerless. Richard Nixon -- the closest thing in politics to Michael Milken -- was able to win a reassessment of himself in a way that Milken never will, mainly because much of the political world had an interest in the enterprise. A lot of powerful people were implicated in Nixon's cause and inclined to fight on his behalf. The entire Republican Party, for instance.
Businessmen don't have anything like this collective interest. No sane businessman would stump for Milken, or write columns in his defense, or take to the airwaves to explain how Milken made America great. Businessmen are always going on about the importance of reputation, but reputation in business is never so important to be worth fighting for for history's sake.
The unimportance of business history says something about the way we feel deep down about moneymaking. Businessmen, if they are remembered at all, are remembered not for how they made their money but for how they gave it away. Consider, for example, the historical time line at the front of the encyclopedia. While Milken was devising his scheme for junk bonds, someone else was creating a computer network called Arpanet and Penn Central was going bankrupt. No doubt these events seemed important at the time. But who remembers them now?

GRAPHIC: Drawing (ILLUSTRATION BY JAMES MCMULLAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available HIGH YIELD BONDS (91%); BONDS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); HISTORY (72%); LAYOFFS (66%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (89%); HENRY KRAVIS (56%); JOHN MALONE (50%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997



38 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 13NJ;Page 10;Column 1;New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: DEVELOPMENT;
The Price of Development: Shutting Some Businesses to Open Others

BYLINE: By CARRIE BUDOFF

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK

 BODY:
The 300 block of George Street seemed the perfect spot for his dream. Ogbe Guobadia believed he could attract patrons to his new Ethiopian restaurant and African gift shop from nearby theaters, the Middlesex County office building and Rutgers University, all just a few blocks from this street that cuts through downtown New Brunswick.
Three years ago, Mr. Guobadia and his three partners began paying $3,300 a month in rent on a deteriorating two-story building, investing more than $500,000 in renovations before his restaurant, Makeda, opened in January. 
 "The floors were buckled, the walls ripped out," said Mr. Guobadia, glancing toward the mahogany bar where an after-work crowd drank beers and vodka-and-tonics. "This building was empty for five or six years. We fixed it up from top to bottom."
But even before Makeda opened its doors to serve the first leg of lamb marinated in Ethiopian honey wine, Mr. Guobadia learned that his dream was in danger. The city plans to demolish the entire block next month, displacing all 17 businesses and about 90 employees. All the businesses must be out by June 1.
In its place will go a 115,000-square-foot office complex, already leased to the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. The $20 million project, a joint venture of the nonprofit New Brunswick Development Corporation and the R. Berman Development Company of Trenton, also calls for 21,000 square feet of retail or office space on the first floor.
From the city's standpoint, this project is a good deal. Two hundred seventy University of Medicine and Dentistry employees will be moving in from Newark, New Brunswick and Piscataway, and 100 more jobs are to be created by the shops and restaurants. Although the developers received a 30-year tax break from the city, they are to pay $300,000 a year in lieu of property taxes, more than triple the $80,000 paid each year by the current owners, said Glenn Patterson, director of planning, community and economic development for the city.
"If the city wants to move forward and continue to revitalize, it needs to do projects like this," Mr. Patterson said. "But it's not always going to be easy."
Norm J. Glickman, director of the Center for Urban Policy Research at Rutgers, said the situation on George Street is not unusual. "Shop owners are always getting knocked around when big institutions try to move into a city," he said. "When they have eminent domain as their stick, there's not much a small businessman can do."
But in this case, city officials had every reason to support a project to bring 270 health-sector jobs into New Brunswick, Mr. Glickman said. "You won't see turnover like at a bodega or restaurant," he said. "There are not only more jobs, but stable jobs."
And city officials point out that the displaced merchants are being offered compensation to relocate.
"Most of the owners will stay in the city and thrive," said Chris Paladino, president of the New Brunswick Development Corporation. "We will expand their customer base." But Such reasoning does little to mollify the merchants.
Samuel Cho sifted through Polaroid pictures he had taken of his 71-year-old building before he spent three years and $650,000 to turn it into a bagel shop, a financial management office and apartments. The developers' compensation comes nowhere near covering his investment in the building, whose businesses and apartments opened in September, he said, adding: 'They are killing an 8-month-old baby."
He and his wife moved to the United States from South Korea in 1982. Pencil sketches of three Presidents, Franklin D. Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy and George Bush, hang in his office.
"I am proud of America," he said. "But when we came here, we had a big dream. I had to work hard with my wife. It involved sweat equity, like blood. You have to invest your blood. But they don't know that."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 7, 1997, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in the New Jersey section last Sunday about the redevelopment of the 300 block of George Street in New Brunswick misstated the date by which tenants must move from buildings scheduled for demolition. The New Brunswick Development Corporation expected the buildings to be empty by the end of the month, not by June 1.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ogbe Guobadia in his restaurant, Makeda, which he is being forced to move from the 300 block of George Street. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)
 
Map of New Brunswick, New Jersey showing location of 300 block.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ETHIOPIA (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (67%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (58%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (58%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ETHIOPIA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMINENT DOMAIN (77%); DENTISTRY (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); RETAILERS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); PROPERTY TAX (62%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



39 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 48; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 7769 words

HEADLINE: Moscow on the Make

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER; Michael Specter is the co-chief of the Moscow bureau of The New York Times. He last wrote for the Magazine on Alexander Lebed, the former Russian security head.

 BODY:
Monday Dawn, with its shafts of light and hints of redemption, doesn't really happen in Moscow. At some point the black of night dissolves into the gray of day. Long trucks full of beets, cabbage and the first spring melons start rumbling across the broken pavement to their destinations at scores of city markets. People rouse themselves, drink tea, then shuffle across the snowy ground to 500 trolley stops and subway stations.
Because this is a Monday, Chalva Tchigirinsky, a real-estate developer, slips into an immaculately tailored gray-checked suit from Harrods, slides into the back of his silver Mercedes and -- trailed closely by a chase car carrying three bodyguards -- begins the hourlong ride from the dacha he rents for $35,000 a month to the center of the city he is trying to rebuild. As always, he has spent the weekend out among the century-old stands of birch trees, sipping French Champagne, relaxing in a sauna that was once visited by Stalin and taking a break from the furious intensity of his normal routine in this, one of the world's most furiously intense cities. 
 Moscow was once a city of cobblestones, lilacs and church bells. That gave way to vulgar skyscrapers, pompous squares and soulless factories. Now it is a city of astonishing extremes and volcanic activity. The opulence is breathtaking and the poverty is staggering. There is enough neon to rival Reno, but the biggest and most important of the many new buildings under construction is a cathedral. Prostitutes literally line the tawdry streets at midnight, but it has been at least 200 years since faith has been as important or as apparent here.
The emerging Moscow -- frantic, aggressive, devoted above all to the pursuit of the dollar, is more than the sum of its disparate cliches: it is quite clearly a city of license, of danger and despair. But it is also a center of culture, of yearning, of true possibility. Moscow is so radically different from any other place in Russia that at times the gigantic metropolis seems like a country unto itself. Two-thirds of all the foreign investment in this huge land is centered here. So is most of the cash, crime and corruption. Suddenly, Moscow has become brasher than New York, faster than Tokyo, more clannish than Beirut.
A week spent floating through the lives of just a handful of the city's 10 million residents -- the fabulously wealthy Tchigirinsky and four people who couldn't have less in common with him -- might not capture the complexity and contradictions packed into the 400 square miles of Moscow today. What could?
Yet together, these five people -- the city's most successful developer; a lonely old woman struggling to survive on a pension; an immigrant baker battling his way into the new middle class; a brilliant but troubled young piano student, and Russia's first Playboy Playmate -- provide enough threads to experience the rich tapestry of this constantly changing city. Not all have prospered in the new Moscow. But none wish to walk away. In less than a decade these five -- and millions like them -- have made themselves new. Once numbed by the leaden certainties of Communism, they are now propelled by change. This week, all five have opened themselves to intrusions that most Muscovites shun: nothing is off limits. Their meals and habits, their family feuds and professional disasters are all on display. So are their aspirations, their achievements, their friends.
It is unusually cold for the first week of April, even in Moscow. Tengiz Dzhidzhelava is on the move early today. By 7 A.M. he has left the cramped four-room apartment he shares with eight people. Slight and prematurely gray, the 34-year-old engineer from the former Soviet republic of Georgia has come -- been driven really -- to the big city to seek his fortune. Tengiz hops on trolley No. 73, which will take him to the bakery he owns at the Butyrsky Market, one of dozens of such markets scattered about the city.
Moscow is always on edge, but something special hangs in the frosty air this morning. Just as Tengiz leaves for work -- and not far away -- two police officers stop a taxi to check the driver's documents. Routine business, particularly if the driver is a dark man from the Caucasus. Instead of turning over the papers however, this man produces a hand grenade, which you can buy on the street here for less than $5. Shouting "I'll blow you up," he tosses it at the cops, ditches his car and runs. Somehow only the fuse explodes, lightly injuring one of the officers.
Tengiz is hardly delayed by the commotion. By 7:30 he has fired up the giant brick oven that Georgians have used for centuries to bake lavash, their pizza-shaped bread. Modeled on ancient drawings of beehives, the oven will take more than an hour to warm up. Until then there are three 150-pound vats of dough to knead and roll into one-pound loaves. Tengiz and his four assistants will sell 600 loaves of the bread today, each for 3,000 rubles (about 50 cents).
After he buys his four tons of flour, pays everyone's salary and the rent, Tengiz must still, like virtually every other shopkeeper in town, come up with his tribute for the mob. Yet, even taking that into account, he will take home nearly $700 this month -- about five times the average Moscow salary.
"When the Soviet Union collapsed things just fell apart in Georgia," where his 27-year-old wife, Leila, and two children still live, he says. "I was never going to work. Look around this market. Nobody here started out hoping to sell fruit."
Tenquiz struggled to make it to the university. Having succeeded, he assumed he would pass an uneventful life in Georgia, the first educated man in his family. "But I'm not complaining," he says. "I couldn't make money like this anywhere else. My kids are going to have a better life. It's just not the way I expected it to be."
Masha Tarasevich also finds herself having been treated strangely -- and not unkindly -- by fate. A savvy brunette with killer legs and a beeper that never stops, the 24-year-old Masha hit the big number last year when she became the first centerfold for the Russian edition of Playboy. In a competitive city filled with the world's most beautiful and available women -- they are commonly called dostupniye dyevochki, "accessible young ladies" -- Masha became the "it" girl overnight.
She didn't plan to make history; it just sort of fell to her. Not usually a Playboy reader, she bought a copy to read an interview with Cindy Crawford. "She is my ideal," Masha says in her best Dale Carnegie voice. "Sensual, smart, successful.
"I saw the ad for the first Russian centerfold and I thought I would win," she continues matter-of-factly, weaving her cherry red Lada through the horrendous midday traffic and listening intently to "Erotica" by Madonna on the tape player. ("Oh, God, I respect her so much," she says.) "I got scared about Playboy for a while," she recalls. "I wondered if it would define me. I asked my boyfriend and he told me I just have to respect myself. And I do." So Masha, shown in various stages of undress in, among other places, a subway stop (Revolution Square), a snowdrift and a bathhouse, quickly earned herself a special niche in New Russian history. ("I think of them as art," she says, mouthing the official line of centerfolds the world over. "These pictures are about feminine beauty.")
A budding singer who studied "rock music" at college in her hometown of Minsk, she is riding her centerfold fame as far as it will take her. Masha has already been to Los Angeles to see "the mansion" and to meet "Hef." She plays violin (as anybody who has seen her naked photos in Playboy will surely remember), and her first music video is called "Maestro Paganini."
Masha, who prefers to be called Maitri, her spiritually inspired, "Buddhist" stage name, is looking severe but cool this afternoon in arty black glasses, blue jeans and cowboy boots. Her lipstick is too red and there is too much of it, but nobody who sees her is going to complain.
When she shows up at the Playboy office to ask them to help promote her music, the guard on the ground floor practically starts to salivate. "Do you have any of those pictures on you?" he asks. Masha blinks, tugs at her gold hoop earrings and blows by him like he's made of stone. "Moscow is the greatest city in the world," she says, obviously flattered by his attention. "It's like that old Frank Sinatra song: 'If you can make it here, you'll make it anywhere.' Isn't that how it goes?"
Tuesday Not everyone considers Moscow a bliss factory. Today, as usual, Mira Pavlovna Ivanova got up at 6:30 so she could beat her hated daughter to the bathroom. At 8 A.M., just as Masha is starting her morning stretching routine across town, the 65-year-old pensioner puts on a ratty sweater she knit from donated strands of wool and strolls into her hallway to find that the empty bottles she had collected last night -- and hoped to redeem this morning -- had been stolen.
"It's life," she says, her eyes batting back the disappointment. "These things happen." Especially to her. Mira Ivanova is a member of an enormous class -- there are more than two million in Moscow alone -- of elderly, well-educated, hard-working people who have become impoverished in the new, capitalistic Russia. Like many of them, Mira retired just before the end of Communism, at a time when pensioners expected to live comfortably. But history may never have produced a generation of adults whose lives have diverged more sharply from their expectations. At least in Moscow, people like Mira receive their pathetic monthly stipend -- almost always $50. In the rest of the country the elderly are often forced to live off the land.
Having spent her life as a teacher and computer programmer at an economics institute so secret that she still refers to it only by its post office box number (3802), Mira now occupies 32 square feet -- space most Americans consider acceptable for a bathroom.
In Moscow, as in Manhattan, real estate is destiny, and Mira and her 36-year-old daughter, Nadia, ("the evil little puppet") who lives with her husband and 10-year-old boy in the other room of the apartment, are locked in a battle literally to the death. "If she wants me out," Mira says frankly, "she will have to kill me. If she waits for me to die, I will leave it to somebody else."
To supplement her meager pension, Mira has for the past eight years hunted bottles, usually stalking drinkers in city parks and waiting for them to finish a beer or their vodka. A good haul can add $15 to her monthly income. "I used to dread it when people would see what I was doing," she says, pulling out the meticulous notebook listing the bottles she has sold. "I was always embarrassed. Now I think they should be."
McDonald's opened its 13th outlet in the Moscow region today. There has almost never been anything but standing room at the other 12. A spokesman for the company, without irony or exaggeration, refers to it as a "great day for the most successful restaurant in the history of Russia."
Downtown, chunks of snow are blowing by in gusts. "I wish I could do something about the weather in this country," Tchigirinsky says dolefully. It is perhaps the only thing beyond his grasp. Tchigirinsky is short, well dressed and elegant. His office is filled with antiques, some priceless, some hideous.
"Look at that," he points to the gaudiest imaginable statue of Napoleon on horseback. "It's a fake. The Kremlin people do it. It is my dream to get rid of it forever," he says, implying that somebody important would be unhappy if he did. During Soviet times Tchigirinsky, 48, made a tenuous living selling antiques. "I was almost in jail three times," he says with pride. It is one of the amazing oddities of today's Moscow that people who a decade ago were criminals -- capitalists, art dealers, profiteers -- now are society's elite. "They were always very, very close," he says. "But I won."
He unlocks a cabinet in his office to reveal a shelf full of rare books: Pushkin, Shakespeare, a first edition of Tolstoy's "War and Peace." All bound in rich leather. There are also translations of Shelley and Byron, as well as several beautiful icons.
There is just one volume from the 20th century: "The Estate of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis," a Sotheby's catalogue that became an instant collectors item. "A gift from Alfred," Tchigirinsky says, referring to the American developer, A. Alfred Taubman, who is chairman of the auction house and owns part of a group that has financed some of Tchigirinsky's real-estate projects.
We are about to meet the contractors at one of Tchigirinsky's -- and Moscow's -- most amazing monuments to all that is Nouveau in Russia: the nearly completed $20 million headquarters of Stolichny Bank. With a soaring atrium, enough highly glossed granite to fill the Grand Canyon and unparalleled views of the Kremlin, the building was sold to the bank for three times New York City market rates.
The boss is finally ready to roll. First the bodyguards -- in standard black leather -- check the elevator. Then the street. It's all clear, so we are quickly funneled into the Mercedes. The driver, a former K.G.B. man, pulls into traffic with the chase car -- a black Chevy Suburban with smoked windows -- on our tail.
In a city where hundreds of rich Russians are killed and kidnapped each year, bodyguards are not simply ornamental. In how many other world capitals, after all, can you meet bank presidents who refuse to give their names? ("You don't need it," says the head of a small but rich Moscow bank in one of Tchigirinsky's buildings. "Why would I say my name in public?") Still, bodyguards are not just for guarding bodies: like the latest cell phones, private bars, modern art, bulletproof cars and $50,000 watches (Tchigirinsky's is a Bulgari) they are a measure of status.
The hierarchy is fairly simple: Every player needs a cell phone and a driver. Richer people also have a bodyguard. The truly rich have several bodyguards and chase cars and locked compounds to sleep in at night. "I don't care about this stuff," Tchigirinsky says, as the chase car swings out to block traffic. "But I have a special role. My partners, the foreigners, worry what might happen if I were gone. This makes them feel better." He jokes about the Mafia. "You'll say I'm in it but I'm not. The truth is you can't take buildings out of the country. They are better off with banks."
In Moscow the joys of free enterprise have not come unsullied. The number of cars on the road has tripled in the past decade to more than two million. The number of important roads has remained steady at about six. The result: traffic like Lagos and air you can chew. We turn onto Bolshaya Nikitskaya Street and inch past Russia's -- and perhaps the world's -- pre-eminent music academy, the Moscow Conservatory. Rachmaninoff, Gilels, Rostropovich and Richter all studied here. At this moment Vazgen Vartanyan, 23, an intense, hypertalented young piano student is sitting on a ledge near the library, staring out the windows at a somber statue of the great composer, Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky.
It's just noon but Vazgen is working his way through his second pack of Marlboros. On his lap sits Beethoven's last Piano Sonata, No. 32, "written when he was completely deaf and insane," the young pianist notes with glee.
Tchigirinsky cruises by the noble 18th-century mansion in his Mercedes, singing the glories of Moscow. "People complain about Luzhkov," he says, referring to the powerful Mayor, Yuri Luzhkov. Many people say he is crooked, but everyone gives him credit for the city's remarkable new vitality. Luzkhov's popularity is astounding. This morning the New Dawn perfume factory began production of a cologne called Mayor, in honor of the burly, baldheaded man who looks about as likely to represent sweet smells to the public as does the average pipe fitter.
"This place was a Communist pigsty before Luzhkov," Tchigirnsky says, not inaccurately. "Now we are taking hovels and making palaces out of them."
It's 6 P.M. and Mira has come downtown on a bottle hunt. There are billboards all around her: for German gym equipment, American sneakers, Italian clothes, French perfume. There is even the "I Love You" billboard: a beautiful woman whose face has been posted all over town by her rich, husband.
All Mira's clothes are secondhand: a knitted hat, a long leather coat, socks so completely patched it's hard to know where the sock ends and the patch begins. She hates to be at home when her daughter is there. After spending the day reading L. Ron Hubbard's "Dianetics," she has already scored two empties.
Mira gives a nearby dumpster a glance, but it has already been picked clean. Parks these days are a bit of a crapshoot. Random violence is rare -- far less common than in the famously safe new New York. Still, despite Luzhkov's decree ordering "the removal of all people begging and living as vagrants in Moscow," there are thousands of homeless here now. They are referred to as B.O.M.J., a Soviet term that basically means scum.
Mira spots a guy finishing a beer in a park across from Moscow's most imposing 20th-century fortress: the American Embassy, which looks as if it has been airlifted in one revolting piece from Reston, Va. To the untrained eye it seems as though the bottle is hers. "You see that old man right there," she says, pointing out what would look to most people like a man standing in a park. "He was here first, waiting." Sure enough, a few minutes later the man whips out a cloth bag and claims his prize.
But Mira perseveres. After a freezing hour she has gathered eight bottles. It's enough, so she is ready for a dinner of nuts and bread. "They say it's not good for old people to eat too much," she says with a glimmer in her surprisingly bright eyes before she slips into the night.
Not far away Tchigirinsky dines with friends at his favorite restaurant, the Golden Estop. No need to order: the food just arrives at a banquet table in a private room filled with gilt-tipped furniture, heavy silver and crystal. "This is going to cost me $2,000," he says in mock disgust. "My whole monthly food budget at the dacha is only $5,000."
By 11:30 the meal is over. Electronic fences swing open on command, several clusters of bodyguards -- all on walkie-talkies summoning drivers -- surround Tchigirinsky and his guests as they leave. Chase cars arrive. Then the Mercedes. He pulls out and drives by the apartment of Tengiz, the sleeping baker, only 50 yards away.
Wednesday The sun is bright this morning on the steps of the Moscow Conservatory. But the day is bitterly cold. Vazgen bounds up the steps at noon. He is wearing two sweaters and a Polartec coat. He has a three-day growth and his black hair is fashionably disheveled. He is the Hollywood cliche of a struggling artist: attractive, dark and remote. Vazgen started playing piano at age 8. When the boy was 13, one of the nation's legendary piano teachers, Lev Vlasenko, heard him at a recital.
"He looked at me and shouted, 'I take that boy,' " Vazgen remembers, still seeming dazed by it all. "He was all emotional. I didn't even know if I was good till then." Vlasenko changed Vazgen's life that day. He was transferred to the Central Music School, the surest route to the conservatory itself. Until he died last year, Vlasenko was Vazgen's teacher.
These days Vazgen, among the finest young pianists in Moscow, is rudderless. His talent is beyond dispute, but so is his desire to play his own way, which is not what older teachers like. They like humility. Competitions are everything to students like Vazgen; medals assure recording contracts and concert dates. Vazgen has entered some of the world's most prestigious piano contests but to his constant anguish has won nothing.
"There is always opposition to brilliance," says Vladimir Krainev, who won the much-heralded Tchaikovsky Competition in 1970, and is one of the world's most respected teachers. Krainev, who studied and taught here, first heard Vazgen play in Italy several years ago. He was smitten at once. "It is hard for people to comprehend such talent," says Krainev, who like many of his colleagues now lives abroad. "But Vazgen has his faith." Krainev has invited him to come study in Germany, a suggestion his devoted but highly protective mother has resolutely rejected.
Today, Vazgen will practice a little, talk to a few teachers and smoke furiously in the foyer outside the cafeteria. He meets his best friend, Dima Gordin, also a gifted pianist, and the two start complaining at once: about the school ("it's never been worse") the students ("they have never been worse") and their lot in life (pretty much the same). They talk about the movie "Shine," which neither has seen. They think it's hilarious that in America a bad piano player is helping sell more Rachmaninoff than anyone in history. Somehow both manage to be engaging while they whine. Dima, a tall, handsome young man whose mother, like Vazgen's, is a doctor, stares at his bible: "World Federation of International Music Competitions." "It is our obsession," Dima says with a shrug, "You just have to win."
Entrance to the Conservatory used to mean a pass to the good life. Concert dates, travel, jobs, teaching assignments: all were doled out by Communist sugar daddies. These days artists have to rely on their talent, and even that's not always enough. Dozens of students are hanging around, smoking and staring at sheet music. Many are Korean, some have cellos slung low over their backs. A beautiful blonde with deep green eyes sweeps by. Vazgen shoots Dima a meaningful glance and spits out a single word: "Skripka," which is Russian for violin. Out of their league.
Vazgen is Armenian but he was raised here. He knows life would have been cushy under the Soviets. It doesn't seem to bother him. Nor does the fact that many of the nation's finest musicians have fled to the more lucrative West. "I have been to other places," he says with a shrug. "Like Italy. That country is magic. But Moscow right now is a place where something important is happening. You sort of want to see what it is." Vazgen says he plays when he feels like it. On the not infrequent days when he doesn't, he stays in bed reading music or watching soccer on TV. (Pictures of his heroes are plastered on the wall above his bed: Metallica, Pink Floyd, Sharon Stone and Vladimir Horowitz.) Asked what he would do if he couldn't play piano, he smiles sweetly and says, "I guess I'd be a piano tuner."
A single candle flickers in the corner of Tengiz's tiny bakery. On this day, eight years ago, Soviet troops attacked demonstrators in the center of Georgia's capital, Tbilisi, with truncheons and gas, killing dozens and wounding hundreds. It was a horrid day for the republic, and it hastened the death of the Soviet Union.
"Tonight we will drink too much and think about our dead friends," said Tengiz. "I will never forget that day." Tengiz has had a busy afternoon. He thinks it's the chill. At 4:45, as he starts pulling his last lavash from the oven with a huge pole, two Georgian men with slicked hair and dressed (literally) to kill march into the back of the shop. There is nothing here they want to buy.
Urgent words are exchanged in Georgian. Tengiz politely explains who I am. The men are not impressed. They speak, wheel on their flashy heels and bolt. They will be back tomorrow. Three-quarters of the small businesses (and 60 percent of the banks) in Moscow say they need protection from the mob. It's probably an underestimate. Russia has one of the weakest legal systems on earth. If somebody defaults on a loan you can't sue them. So you need somebody to "protect" you and your interests. That's where the krisha comes in. Krisha literally means roof in Russian. But it has come to stand for the guy you pay to protect you. He's your roof. If you have a problem -- as long as you are paying -- he takes care of it. No krisha and your bakery or restaurant or newspaper kiosk burns to the ground one day. It's simple. Still, the brief encounter has left Tengiz sheepish and fidgety. He is not interested in discussing it, so I pretend to have no idea what just happened.
Wednesday is pensioner's day at the Cinema Center and there is no bigger movie fan than Mira. While waiting in line this morning to cash in 11 bottles for 4,000 rubles, or about 75 cents ("I was very happy about that"), she saw an ad in the newspaper for free tickets to a movie in two weeks. She raced over straight from the bottle line. Two hours later she had her tickets and made it back here in time to see "Waterloo Bridge," a 1940 film starring Vivien Leigh and Robert Taylor. She sits transfixed throughout the movie, which she has seen half a dozen times. "The first time I saw this was in 1945," she said. "Then even the men had tears running down their faces."
Masha is relaxing at home tonight. She shares a large, wood-paneled apartment with her 22-year-old sister, Vera, and together they pay $1,000 a month in rent. It's a huge sum for two young Russian women, but Vera has jettisoned her plans for a career as a philologist and now runs a successful chemical-equipment company.
Masha is having friends over, so she bought a chocolate ice-cream cake, which she eats with abandon. "I can't help it," she says, sharing a small seat with Vera, who abstains. "I love this stuff." This is a bachelorette pad. One friend, Andrei Chernov, is talking about how his car was stolen by an old acquaintance. He is glad. "These days if you have a car in Moscow," he says. "You can die for it."
The phone rings every three minutes. At 10 P.M.: "Nope, that's Easter. Everyone is going to be waiting for me at home. My parents, my grandma everyone." Somebody wants her to be host of a fashion show in Siberia. "Can't do it." Five minutes later: "Mamutchka. Papa was here yesterday? Doesn't he have my beeper? O.K., maybe next time. I love you."
The talk turns to astrology, pseudonyms, money, men. The phone keeps ringing. "Yes, come over. Come over any time." By midnight the party has just begun.
Thursday Tchigirinsky seems to have forgotten he has invited visitors for breakfast. He answers the door unshaven, irritated, surprised. He is wearing a blood-red robe and nothing else. There are some shoes on the floor, but the pair that stick out are the patent-leather, four-inch Moschino pumps with the ankle strap. There is an elegant little handbag on the couch and a pack of Cartier cigarettes. He smokes Marlboros.
Tchigirinsky is separated, but except to make it clear that he has an active personal life, he isn't all that interested in sharing it. He rents this apartment, only 10 minutes from his office, for $10,000 a month. It's big, a former communal apartment that must have housed six families just 10 years ago. Some of the art and furniture are beautiful; much of it looks as if it belongs at Caesar's Palace.
He puts on a CD of "Cats" and goes to the bathroom to shave.
His cell phone rings. He couldn't live five minutes without it. There is a phone in his bathroom too. "I sleep with a phone," he says. "Two, actually. The cell phone and the regular phone." He loves getting dueling calls: cellular and regular. He always takes them both. Today he was up at 5 A.M. He has a board meeting and he is grumpy. His cook has apparently failed to blend his apple and carrot juice properly. "In Russia there are no people that know their business," he says darkly, swirling the suspect liquid in a glass. "Her job is to make breakfast three days a week. She can't do it."
Moscow police raid an apartment and walk away with more than 8,000 bottles of illegally produced vodka that was meant to be sold by elderly ladies on the streets for $1 a bottle. It is the biggest such bust in the city's history. Police also found 1,000 liters of grain alcohol, which, when checked at a lab, was found to be contaminated and hazardous.
Tengiz faces a crisis today. There has been an accident at Bread Factory No. 4 and the flour has spoiled. He won't get any more this week. "We have enough for four days," he says, his green-black eyes calm as always. "We will have to find it somewhere else."
Next to his shop, the long, indoor market is full of produce: there are lemons, melons, apricots by the barrel. The air is heavy with the smell of spices from three continents. There are sour pickles, spicy carrots and beets drenched in garlic. On one end of the long food hall the tile floor has been slickened with the blood of butchered lamb. On the other end about a dozen men --most of them Armenians -- sit at a table drinking sweet tea.
The market is a little world. There is hotel space for 150 people -- mostly drivers delivering fruits and vegetables from the Caucasus, Central Asia or Belarus. And there is a stolovaya, a communal lunch room. During the Soviet era these cafes were uniformly disgusting, so I expect something inedible. But the borscht is fresh and delicious, and the kasha brings happy memories of Manhattan's Lower East Side.
"I like it here," Tengiz says, sipping his soup. There is no escaping the mob, though. Five men with flat heads, cell phones and leather jackets eat lunch nearby.
Tengiz misses his family and his little mountain village. There were 600 people at his wedding, which lasted two days. He still looks at the videotape every week. He won't keep money in a Moscow bank, because this is "not my country." He sends it home with friends. He has already started saving money for his young son and daughter: $20 a month for each. "So they won't need me so much when they grow up."
He has trouble accepting the contradictions the world has thrust upon him. "It was so much better when I was young," he says. "We had everything. We were always together." Reminded that he makes 20 times what his father earned, he laughs and asks, "So, am I happier?"
Vazgen has decided to perform this evening, in preparation for his upcoming competition in Zurich. He lives in Bibirevo, a wasteland of pale Soviet apartment blocks on the northern edge of the city. There are many such neighborhoods in Moscow. They resemble housing projects you would see in the South Bronx, except the windows are still in the walls. People here call them the "sleeping regions," because there is no visible life in any of them. As a builder, the Mayor makes Robert Moses look like a slacker. Last year the city put up 35 million square feet of apartment space. Mostly, the apartments lie in these soul-numbing zombie areas on the edge of Moscow. The buildings in the center of town go to the rich guys.
Vazgen answers the door -- unlocking all four locks -- wearing a gray striped suit about a size and a half too big. His father, a silent, 60-year-old Armenian whom his wife describes as a "victim of perestroika," watches television. He was a sports coach but has no job now.
Vazgen's mom, 52, an eye doctor who "lives only for Vazgen," is nervous. She tries to make him wear a warmer coat, to eat before he leaves, to slip gloves on his long, delicate fingers. She reminds him to come right home after he plays. As he walks out, she throws a scarf at him. He shrugs and quotes Pink Floyd to explain her: "Ooh, baby, you will always be a baby to me."
As we walk to the subway, Vazgen tells me that this stultifying part of town has become a mob hangout. I laugh. But as we enter the subway two cops grab us and demand documents. Vazgen stammers, and when he is nervous, like now, he stammers a lot. We produce our papers, the cops grunt and let us go -- another reminder that it can be bad to look swarthy in Moscow.
On the ride downtown Vazgen remembers that the day before his first big competition three years ago he wandered into Trinity Motors, the car dealer near the Bolshoi Theater. "I just assumed I would win," he says now, laughing at his own presumptuousness. "I picked out the car I wanted: a black Chevrolet. It was cool. I was an idiot."
By 7:30 he is on stage at a children's music school, wearing a bow tie, playing for a few friends. For nearly an hour he becomes a magician, losing himself in Beethoven and Chopin. Then abruptly he stands up, says, "For technical reasons this concert will not continue," and walks off the stage. Finally, he admits that the piano was impossible to play, "like smashing rocks with a hammer." Then he tells about the Kharkov piano competition in 1995. No hot water, the Steinway piano never got through customs. The food made him sick. By the end of the story he is laughing, and so is his sidekick, Dima.
They stay out late, first eating dinner (cheeseburgers with jalepeno sauce, Jack Daniel's and potato skins). When they finally arrive back at Vazgen's house at 1:30 A.M., his mother is frantic with worry -- but not too frantic to have forgotten to make the beds for guests or to lay out a lovely dinner table with sausage and cheese and vegetables and homemade juices. Nobody eats. Instead, Dima and Vazgen gossip and smoke till dawn, when they finally nod off.
Friday Mira is depressed. Somebody stole her cane on the Metro yesterday and she has been reduced to leaning on a stick. "It will give me a chance to walk like a young woman," she says, not convincingly. There is pain in her huge green eyes. Without her cane she moves like an awkward bird.
The icy ground is treacherous for her. She is sitting in the minuscule kitchen she shares with her daughter and son-in-law. There is an ancient television she uses only to watch "Santa Barbara." Her bedroom is almost too small for two people to enter.
On Fridays she can buy cabbage at a discount. Most of her food is grown in a friend's garden about 100 miles from Moscow. Each fall she rides the electrichka -- the local train -- and collects enough beets, potatoes, cabbage, carrots and berries to last the winter.
Mira lives in a neighborhood called Novye Cheremushki. She has been there for 37 years, since Moscow's last great building boom -- when Nikita Khrushchev decided that wooden shacks would no longer suit a great city. He threw up hundreds of identical buildings -- they are still called Khrushchevka's -- here on Moscow's southern tier. Mira's building is always dark and cold. It reeks of cat urine. She'd leave in a minute if there were somewhere else to go. Each month, her pension arrives on the 5th, but she never touches it until the 20th -- to collect interest. Over tea, she pulls out a passbook from the National Pension Bank. She deposited $100 in 1991 and with interest it rose to $118.67, and then the bank went bust. Like a lot of pensioners, she lost her money.
"Last night my daughter had friends over," she says. "We don't speak. There was cake and I wanted a piece. But I would never ask and she would never offer." She mentions that Saturday will be the anniversary of the day Yuri Gagarin became the first man in space. Cosmonauts Day is a major holiday in Russia, a rare chance to celebrate both the glory of the Soviet Union and a time when its future seemed to shimmer.
"How I remember that day," she says, dreamily. "It was 36 years ago and my baby was 3 weeks old. Everything seemed possible." She stops talking before she starts to cry.
It's 7 P.M. before Tchigirinsky is ready to leave for the dacha. He will entertain 40 people tonight. A caravan of Mercedeses rolls through Moscow. Just this afternoon President Yeltsin signed a new decree requiring Russia's leaders to ride in Volgas, rather than the foreign cars they currently use. "Great news," Tchigirinsky says. Knowing he'll get great discounts, he has instructed his staff to buy every Government Mercedes they can.
We roll past dozens of astoundingly vulgar brick cottedgi -- the dachas of the new rich. "I hate them sooooo much," he says, almost physically in pain. "How can anyone have such bad taste?" His dacha was always reserved for the No. 4 man in the Communist Party. Anastas Mikoyan, Stalin's Foreign Minister, kept a collection of monkeys there.
The grounds are huge and well guarded. "Twenty years ago they would have shot me for trying to open this gate," he says, giggling. There is an underground passage to the sauna house. "That way, if there was a nuclear attack, our leaders could still sweat in peace."
After cocktails with builders, architects and politicians, just as dinner is served, a beautiful young drama student, looking like a cross between Juliette Binoche and Julia Roberts, magically appears at his side. She has luminous skin, perfect hair and a demure blue Chanel suit with white piping. She hardly speaks.
There are French, Italian, Swiss, Russian, American and Georgian guests this evening. The maitre'd'hotel is serving three types of fish, two meats, homemade cranberry vodka, Champagne, red and white wine, lamb, chicken, caviar, mushrooms and several salads. Tea is poured from a spectacular, Faberge samovar.
At dinner a woman discusses the hardest part of high-level business deals in Moscow. "It's not just payoffs," she says, explaining the brazen art of pleasing friends in high places. "It's more subtle than that, and more effective. Say you go to London to see a client, so you take your guy. You buy him some fun. You organize a credit card. You buy his wife furs. The best toy store in the world is around the corner and a car will pick him up at 9 A.M. No need to pay. Does he need some suits? A tailor appears. Furniture? We buy and we ship. It happens like that."
Friday is the biggest party night in Moscow. But with scores of discos and nearly 60 casinos, every night is club night. Masha has been invited to a private party at Infant, in the Mezhdunarodnaya Hotel. The cover charge is $35, but if you're on the list you're comped.
Guards at the door frisk you before they use metal detectors. You have to check your computers, furs and weapons, but beepers and phones are permitted. Most people switch their phones to "vibrate" when they arrive -- the music is too loud to hear a ring.
Masha loves to dance; she also loves to check herself out in the mirror. Tonight, with mirrors everywhere and one of her favorite D.J.'s spinning records, there is a harmonic convergence. At 1:30, three guys in Mylar spacesuits hit the dance floor, in honor of Cosmonauts Day. Moscow in the late 90's is eerily like New York in the early 80's. Criminally slender women with occasional nosebleeds hang near the dance floor, swaying rhythmically and humming "Play That Funky Music (White Boy)." The men have enormous biceps, flattop haircuts and black clothes. They all drink Coronas. No limes, though.
"Oh, my God, no gym tomorrow," Masha shouts breathlessly, tossing her white, sequined jacket on the back of an amplifier. She is wearing jeans, a baseball cap and a cream top that looks yellow under the strobe lights. She is draped in costume jewelry that makes her look trashy -- in a good way. Puffs of smoke billow across the floor. At least six people dance with beepers on their belts.
There are better clubs. If Steve Rubell were alive he'd probably own Marika, not far from the Kremlin. Described recently by a local newspaper as having the "highest concentration of beautiful women and heavily armed men in the world," it is the ultimate nightspot, a place so cool it's scary. By day it's a quiet bar. On Friday nights, it becomes the world's finest market for Russian babes and Eurotrash. At 2:30 in the morning all the women look like semi-supermodels or top-level prostitutes. The music is insistent. Everyone is speaking heavily accented English -- German accents, Russian accents, French accents. There is enough fur in the cloakroom to open a boutique in Beverly Hills. Outside, dozens of chauffeurs wait patiently in the rain for dawn.
Saturday The Bolsheviks introduced subbotnik to Russia as a sort of pagan Easter. Early in April, always on a Saturday, the masses turn out to scrub away the grime of winter. Today is subbotnik -- which Muscovites still honor. Because of treacherous winds and the threat of snow, however, the Mayor has called it off.
Every Saturday is cleaning day for Tengiz. Today, he is spiffing up the tiny bakery, scraping the salt patches on the oven and washing the floor. Early this morning he bought 500 kilograms of flour from a wholesaler. The price wasn't too bad. He plans to travel to Georgia soon, and he can't wait. He is sick of seeing drunks on the streets of Moscow. "At home you would never see that. Never."
Two Moscow policemen were found dead this afternoon, in a small village called Tomilino, five miles from the city. Each was shot and tied up with his own belt, just a day after testifying in open court against a minor mob figure they had arrested a few weeks before. There are no suspects.
Vazgen is euphoric this evening, arriving home after a long lesson with Krainev, who is visiting from Germany. "Catastrophe," he shouts joyfully, referring to the tiresome winter weather. "Complete catastrophe."
Krainev yelled at him for a couple of hours, told him what to play and how to play it. Then he listened. It was great. As always the conversation falls to the subject of competitions. Krainev first saw Vazgen play in 1993 near Venice. Vazgen's coal black eyes widen at the memory. "The people in the audience were screaming, 'Nuovo Horowitz, Nuovo Horowitz,' " "But I won nothing. I know what they say. That I am arrogant. But I play the only way I can. It's not a question of being pigheaded. It's all I know."
There is a short lottery program, "Shpilka," on the state television network. Shpilka means either a woman's stiletto heel or a sarcastic, needling comment. The host is charming, funny and weird. He goes by the name Man without a Name. At 11 P.M. Masha shows up for her guest spot. She is wearing an electric neon dress that has essentially been painted on. She left her underwear at home, but it probably wouldn't have fit under the dress anyway. There is a series of huge holes in the stomach that create the effect of a neoprene picket fence. She has skin-tight, black vinyl, calf-high boots, a gold cross and about 31 pounds of fake pearls.
She heads straight for the mirror. Her very big hair seems to be in crisis. When the host comes over to give her a little hello pat, and decides that the only safe part of her anatomy to touch is her head, she recoils in horror. "Don't touch my hair," she shrieks. He backs off immediately.
The show lasts five minutes. He wears Playboy bunny ears and juggles iron balls. She takes calls from viewers. The first man is unusually subdued. "He is probably stunned by my beauty," she says on the air. After they are off she is remorseful. "God, I can't believe I said that. What will people think?" Then she rushes off to the mirror with a makeup kit to get ready for the second show.
Sunday Early this morning the police sealed off the Luzhniki Olympic Sport Center, which is being renovated so it can accommodate the largest retractable roof in the world. A soldier recently back from Chechnya has deserted with his rifle and 180 rounds of ammunition. By 9 A.M. he has already killed a man who was out walking his dog.
Tchigirinsky looks as if he has had a rough weekend. Sitting in the center of the 40-foot table in his dacha dining room, he yawns and lights a cigarette. He hasn't shaved since Friday. There are coffee cups everywhere.
Across from him is a tense European man in a three-piece suit. The man works for Credit Suisse, one of Tchigirinsky's most valued tenants, and one of the most important foreign banks in Russia. He wants to become Tchigirinsky's consultant, showing him how to invest his considerable fortune. Out of prudence, he mentions the possibility of moving some of it out of Russia. Oops. Tchigirinsky slides an unsigned contract back across the highly buffed table, toward the silver chocolate dish.
"I want to work with you," Tchigirinsky says. "But you need to think about who we are." The man has to catch a plane to Zurich. He wants to close the deal.
Not today, though. "This is an incredibly historic moment for this city," Tchigirinsky says, starting a slow rant. "We are on the verge of something special. Who can't see that? The opportunity is unbelievable. There is risk. There are dangers. But they are here."
Tchigirinsky, an accomplished gambler, swears that he financed his first major building at the roulette wheel. "Every penny I have is in the ground in Moscow. I'm staying. Stay with me. Take a risk with me. Get rich with me."
The man has to go. "Think it all over," Tchigirinsky says. "I'll be in London this week. Call me when I get back."
Mira comes downtown most Sundays. At noon she is standing in front of the Krasnopresnenskaya Metro station studying a map. She grew up not far from here, near the Novodevichy Monastery. She went to school nearby too. "Lenin gave a speech in the ninth auditorium at our school," she said. "We were so proud of that."
She is concerned about her daughter Nadia, with whom she has such sour relations. She has pieced together -- from snips of overheard phone conversation and a discussion with another daughter -- that after 15 years as a programmer Nadia will start a new job Monday. "She was so settled in her old job," she says.
She rambles on about the crime and fear so common in the city these days. But she is not sad and she is not scared. She misses her husband, who died of cancer 15 years ago. But she sees humor where others would not. Late one night a man ran up to her at a bus stop. He grabbed her from behind. "I said to him I'm a pensioner, not a pioneerka," referring to the Soviet version of Girl Scouts. "And that man walked me all the way home."
She admits to nostalgia, but not for Communism. "I would return to the old Russia," she says, "but only to return to my youth."
She is walking near the White House, the Government center, checking out the bottle-collecting possibilities. "I'm optimistic about this country," she says. "People are always saying things will be good here if, if, if. I think things will be good here without the ifs."
Isn't she bitter at all about her life? "Why?" she responds, genuinely surprised. "I have everything I need. The bottles force me to get out and walk every day. Otherwise, I would be decrepit." She ducks behind a pillar, hiding from the wind. "Well, I've got to run," she says with a broad smile. In a minute, she's gone.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Masha Tarasevich, Playboy model (pg. 50); Chalva Tchigirinsky, real-estate developer (pg. 51); Mira Ivanova, pensioner (pg. 52); Vazgen Vartanyan, piano student (pg. 53); Tengiz Dzhidzhelava, baker (Photographs by Lise Sarfati)(pg. 55)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); CORRUPTION (60%); IMMIGRATION (60%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (56%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1997



40 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: What Has G.O.P. Got to Fear From Sampling?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In "Republicans Resisting Census Plan to Correct Undercounting" (news article, May 27), Benjamin Ginsberg, a former general counsel of the Republican National Committee, says that "statistical sampling scares the living daylights out of me. It is so subject to political manipulation." 
 Who would know better than he? Mr. Ginsberg was the political operative who pioneered the use of computers to analyze neighborhood racial composition and create the maximum possible number of majority-minority districts. His stated goal was not to increase representation for minorities but to concentrate black voters together, making surrounding districts more Republican.
For years, nonpartisan census officials -- joined by independent statisticians, economists and social scientists -- have pushed for sampling to make the census more accurate. They all agree that sampling is the only way to insure that the disastrous undercount of the 1990 census is not repeated.
Yet Republican leaders in Congress have threatened to delay the flood relief bill if it does not include language that bans sampling. Why? The simple reason is that they think scientific sampling methods will hurt their party.
If Mr. Ginsberg is afraid of political manipulation of the census, his fellow Republicans in Congress must terrify him.
 
CHARLES E. SCHUMER
Member of Congress, 9th Dist., N.Y.
Washington, May 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POPULATION; CENSUS CENSUS (95%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); LAWYERS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (55%); 

PERSON: SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR) CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1997



41 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY: DIGITAL COMMERCE;
With all the sound and fury over push technology, it must signify something.

BYLINE: By Seth Schiesel 

 BODY:
IN the silicon world, as in many others, being contrary is almost as fashionable as being rich. So one of the best ways to gauge the value of a new technology is by the extent of the backlash it inspires.
The newbie-turned-villain of the moment is called push. Push is how media companies -- "content providers" in high-tech argot -- supposedly mean to deliver automatically bucketloads of information to every computer users' desktop, freeing the users to stop surfing the Internet in search of stuff to pull. 
 The company most associated with push is Pointcast Inc., whose product is known simply as Pointcast. The program turns a screen saver into a customizable flip chart of current news, sports and weather.
In the months since Pointcast passed the one million-users mark, push has been blamed for hogging network bandwidth, getting too much attention and causing various symptoms in those overwhelmed by too much information. John C. McCarthy, an analyst at Forrester Research Inc. in Cambridge, Mass., calls the situation a "witch hunt."
The rising tide of anti-push dudgeon is the surest sign that the technology is important and here to stay, besides the fact that the Netscape Communications Corporation and the Microsoft Corporation are developing push offerings of their own.
Pointcast, based in Santa Clara, Calif., means to fight for as long as it can. The company is scheduled to release a new version of its software today that could considerably raise the bar over which Netscape, Microsoft and other push software companies need to push themselves.
The changes in Pointcast 2.0 are directed at the most frequently made criticisms of the earlier version.
For example: "I hate it when Pointcast comes on the screen just as I'm about to start working on something." The old product is also bashed for the obverse: Pointcast's information can be seen only when the user is doing nothing else. Pointcast's response: In addition to the screen saver option, the new version will let users establish a half-inch-high ticker at the top or bottom of the screen to display a scrolling menu of text and graphical information, with no ads, while another program works in the foreground. Click on the ticker and a fuller version of the item appears, with ads.
Also, "I hate it because I can only look at information from Pointcast's limited group of content providers." After all, Pointcast lists only 25 available channels on its home page. (Netscape in particular is fond of this argument. As Michael Po, a Netscape marketing director, put it, "If I want to know about mining and gold, and they don't aggregate content on mining and gold, I can't get that information.")
Pointcast's response: Together with Microsoft, Pointcast developed standards that the companies say allow anyone to develop channels for Pointcast (and Microsoft's coming Active Desktop). Christopher R. Hassett, the chief executive of Pointcast, said more than 3,000 people and organizations had signed up and the company had brought in Excite Inc., the search engine company, to develop tools to navigate the choices.
Finally, "I hate it when Pointcast clogs my network." This comes from corporate chief information officers after half of a company's employees start using Pointcast and the company's link to the Internet becomes choked in the morning with sports scores. Pointcast's response: Mindful that a majority of its subscribers are in offices, Pointcast has developed a suite of tools that corporations can use to manage the service's use, allowing them to determine which channels employees can view.
Netscape released the first version of its Netcaster software two weeks ago. It allows users to tune into any Web site and make the page the background of the computer's desktop. Netcaster updates the site at user-specified intervals.
But no matter what the virtues of Netcaster and Pointcast 2.0, it is hard to escape the feeling that Microsoft will eventually end up dominating the desktop information market. It looks like the main strategy of William H. Gates recently has been to refashion his company as the first media giant of cyberspace.
Microsoft wants to release Active Desktop this year. Active Desktop would integrate a personal computer's core operating system with the network around it. For instance, there could be buttons on the default Windows desktop that read "News," "Sports," "Weather" that would take users to information from Microsoft's growing stable of partners like MSNBC and Fortune magazine.
Pointcast's problem is that it has few, if any, exclusive relationships. Pointcast does have a deal with Microsoft to become a preferred information provider for Active Desktop. but what's to keep Microsoft from eventually making its own deals with Pointcast's partners and cutting Pointcast out of the loop?
Very little. In fact, that is already happening. One of Pointcast's channels is The Wall Street Journal. Just two weeks ago, Microsoft announced its own agreement with Dow Jones & Company, the owner of The Journal.
For Pointcast, "It's a little tricky," said Melissa Bane, an analyst with the Yankee Group in Boston, laughing ruefully. "I don't see room for a lot of players in this space." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (83%); FORR (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (69%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: POINTCAST INC; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP; MICROSOFT CORP AOL INC (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (83%); POINTCAST INC (71%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: POINTCAST INC; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP; MICROSOFT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); BANDWIDTH (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1997



42 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: In Texas, a Celebration Of the Ephemeral Spirit

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: GALVESTON, Tex., June 1

 BODY:
It was a day at the beach, but not a day for baby-sized buckets or flimsy plastic sand shovels.
When 1,750 participants from 66 "design and construction" teams hit East Beach here this weekend for the 11th annual American Institute of Architects' Sandcastle Competition, they brought the real tools needed to get the job done: wheelbarrows, 40-gallon water drums, Army-issue shovels and metal rakes, trowels, wooden scaffolding, even a few controlled-pressure water sprayers powered by electric generators. 
 Working with up to 6,000 cubic feet of sand apiece, the teams had five hours to erect entries that, in many cases, had been months in the planning. And here along the Gulf of Mexico, the competitors in one of the nation's largest and arguably its zaniest sand-sculpturing contest all had but one aim: to win the coveted Golden Bucket award.
Engineers from Waste Management of Texas Inc. offered detailed reproductions of monuments from four major civilizations: The Great Pyramid (Giza, Egypt, 2600 B.C.); Temple of the Sun (Teotihuacan, Mexico, 100 B.C.); Great Stupa of Sanchi (Kakanada, India, A.D. 25); and Coastal Plains Landfill (Alvin, Tex., A.D. 1997).
In "I Scream for Ice Cream," a nine-and-a-half-foot tall rendition of the figure in Edvard Munch's painting "The Scream" shrieked before a giant sugar cone. No fewer than three exhibits paid homage to professional golf's new superstar, including a "Tiggerwoods" exhibit with characters from Winnie the Pooh.
Over the years, the group's sand castle contest has been transformed into a sand sculpture competition, and entries have ranged from four life-sized Volkswagens (titled "Beetles' Reunion) to a giant skillet with two fried eggs inside to performance pieces, like the "Rocky Horror Sandcastle Show."
For many of the architects, engineers and contractors who enter, it is a serious affair; so serious that at least one contestant sheepishly admitted to having hired a baby sitter for his children, who were stuck back in muggy Houston for the day while the adults came to the beach to play -- or work, whichever -- in the sand.
"We've had problems in the past with kids trying to help out; they can just mess the whole thing up," said the man, who pleaded that his name be kept out of the newspaper.
If attitudes like this lend just a touch of baby-boomer excess to the whole event, and if they also betray a certain Texas-style penchant for doing things in a large way, many of the participants say that the artistic challenges are at least as great as those involved in designing, say, another suburban shopping mall or an oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico.
"It's the whole idea of trying to build a better mousetrap," said Victor Bretting, a general contracting manager from Houston who said his team had been working for 11 months on the design of a large beach scene, which included exquisitely sculptured figurines, one sunbathing topless. "It's the challenge of the thing," he said.
It would be easy to assume that the judges, clad in bathing suits and straw hats, cups of beer in hand, viewed their mission as a lark, something like, say, a day at the beach. But that would be wrong.
In fact, the judges recorded their marks on Olympic-style scoring sheets with five categories: originality of theme, artistic execution of concept, technical difficulty, carving technique and overall site use.
"You've got a lot of complicated things to factor in here," said Joe Webb, the president of the Houston chapter of the architects' association and one of the judges.
In the history of the event, no entry has ever received a perfect score of 125: "5's" in all 5 categories from all five judges.
But people keep trying, often in the face of daunting logistical challenges. This year, a stiff Gulf breeze and hot, dry weather combined to pose a huge problem, as many teams fought with misters and sprayers throughout the day Saturday to keep their sculptures moist. A few collapsed anyway.
"It's O.K.! It's O.K!," Jim Henderson, a 28-year-old architect with a company from Austin, shouted to his 34 teammates who were trying to erect a Stonehenge-like masterpiece titled "Sandhinge," part of which crumbled into a heap. To a reporter, he explained: "It's supposed to be a ruin. That's the beauty of the thing."
Under the contest rules, entrants could use tools and props as necessary to erect the sculptures. They were mainly designed by architects, but other companies were called in to help. "You really need a professional construction company on board to get it done right," said Brent Spraggins, an architect.
But at the end, all entries could consist of two things and two things only: sand and water.
The contest began 12 years ago as contest with Lego building blocks. "Architects were really not very happy people in Houston" at that time, said Martha Murphree, executive director of the A.I.A. chapter here, because the economy was suffering. "The idea was, let's do something fun."
By the next year, though, questions arose about the cost of securing tens of thousands of Lego pieces every year. "So everybody said, let's try sand," Ms. Murphree recalled.
The final whistle blew at 4 P.M. Saturday, and for the next few hours, tension mounted as the votes were tallied for the Golden Bucket first-prize award, not to mention the Silver Shovel, Bronze Shovel and a host of lesser prizes, including best team T-shirt and "most realistic rendition of an animal, vegetable or mineral."
When Watkins Carter Hamilton, a Houston architectural firm, was declared the grand-prize winner for "Godzilla Stomp Tour '97," an eight-and-half-foot-high depiction of the savage beast ravaging Galveston landmarks, team members stomped, cheered and laughed, and a few just may have been close to tears.
"These were all just great people to work with," said Bernice Salinas, the team leader, holding the Golden Bucket aloft and sounding a bit like somebody accepting an Oscar. "A lot of work went into this. A lot of hard, hard work."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Godzilla's devastation of Galveston, Tex., left, captured the Golden Bucket award in the sand-sculpturing competition on Saturday. Other entries were "Carpooling," above, and "Tiger Trap," below, a tribute to the golf champion Tiger Woods. About 1,750 people took part in the Texas event. (Photographs by F. Carter Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (79%); MEXICO (77%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

CITY: GALVESTON, TX, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN STUDY (58%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (84%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (84%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GALVESTON (TEX); UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (79%); MEXICO (77%); TEXAS, USA (95%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BEACHES ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); BEACHES (90%); CHILDREN (78%); PAINTING (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); CELEBRITIES (73%); LANDFILLS (67%); GOLF (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE TIGER WOODS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1997



43 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: Canada, No Longer Riding High, Votes Today, Resigned to Austerity

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: CHARLOTTETOWN, Prince Edward Island, June 1

 BODY:
At one point during a nationally televised debate last month, Prime Minister Jean Chretien made an apology that seemed surprisingly frank for a politician in the thick of his 11th election campaign.
"In some areas I'm sorry we could not do as well as we wanted," said Mr. Chretien, who is trying to lead his Liberal Party to victory in Canada's parliamentary election on Monday. 
 When he became Prime Minister three and a half years ago, Mr. Chretien, who is 63, said he wanted to protect Canada's universal health care system from drastic cuts, but he could not. He wanted to insure that spending on education, welfare and unemployment remained at past levels, but he could not. He wanted to keep the financing stable for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, a keeper of Canada's culture. He could not.
Instead, the social safety net that Canadians have long cherished, and that they proudly said most distinguished their country from the United States, was badly frayed as Mr. Chretien, inheriting an enormous budget deficit, shifted priorities from big spending to fiscal restraint.
But every voter opinion poll indicates that Canadians are ready to return Mr. Chretien's party to power. About the only thing to be decided in Monday's vote is whether the Liberals will have a majority or a minority government. While they are expected to win more seats than any other party and thus will control the Government, they might not have a majority of the 301 seats in Parliament. In that case, they would have to rely on other parties to pass legislation, something they did not have to do in the current Parliament, having won 177 seats, a comfortable majority, in the 1993 election.
A badly splintered opposition has a lot to do with the Liberals' strength. But during the five weeks of this campaign it has become clear that expectations have fallen in Canada, and Mr. Chretien's apology reflected how widely that pragmatism has been accepted.
From this cozy Atlantic island, where the plan to form Canada was drawn up more than 130 years ago, to the rapidly growing cities of the distant Pacific coast, Canadians have come to grips with the economic and social burdens of the compassionate big government they created over the last half century.
And many concluded, as did Mr. Chretien in the debate, that they cannot do as well as they once wanted to.
"It's not a question of whether Canada is changing; Canada has to change," said Bryn MacCallun, 21, who manages a pet shop here while she decides whether it is worth her while to return to the University of Prince Edward Island. "We have to be more realistic. We can't have everything."
Matthew MacDonald, a deli owner in Fredericton, New Brunswick, said that Canada had had "a good ride for more than 40 years," but that attitudes must change.
"In this election people are realizing that to save what we want to save we'll have to expect less of what we used to get," he said.
This dampening of ambition has had the effect of strengthening Canada's economy as a reduced budget deficit has brought down interest rates and stimulated growth.
But what has also been at stake is the character and confidence of Canada, America's largest trading partner, strongest ally and closest friend.
"Canadians are overwhelmed by a sense of nostalgia," said Stephen Blank, a professor of Canadian-American relations at the Center for International Studies in Toronto. He said the self-image most Canadians hold is based on inflated expectations that emerged after World War II, when Canada's Army and Navy were among the largest in the world.
The country's sense of self worth grew stronger during successive decades when Canadian peacekeepers patrolled hot spots around the world, and Canada became part of the select Group of Seven industrialized nations.
But the world has changed, and so has Canada. Its armed forces now are among the smallest in the world, and Canada's ability to undertake peacekeeping missions is limited.
Canada's population of 29 million, even with sizable immigration, has been surpassed by many countries, and its presence in the G-7, while Brazil and South Korea are excluded, is considered by some a quaint anomaly. Most of all, Mr. Blank said, it is becoming clear that while Canada is still an enormously wealthy country, it cannot pay for everything.
"Canada is not as rich as Canadians have thought it was," he said.
The downsizing of Canadian expectations began with Mr. Chretien's predecessor, Brian Mulroney. During the 1980's he sharply raised taxes, and also began to raise questions about Canada's ability to afford the social system it had developed.
For his efforts, Mr. Mulroney became one of the most disliked politicians in Canadian history. In the 1993 election his party, the Progressive Conservatives, won just two seats. One of them was held by Jean Charest, the party's new leader.
"I will offer this country the leadership it deserves," Mr. Charest, 38, said during a campaign stop here last week. He was enthusiastically received, but his connection to Mr. Mulroney is severely limiting his party's chances to rebound.
Mr. Chretien and the Liberal Party won the 1993 election by promising to do away with some of Mr. Mulroney's hated taxes while creating jobs and protecting the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. But shortly after taking office, Mr. Chretien picked up where Mr. Mulroney had left off. Faced with a huge budget deficit, instead of cutting taxes he sharply reduced spending on social programs and the CBC.
The deficit, roughly $31 million in American currency when Mr. Chretien took office, is expected to be eliminated by 2000. With unemployment at 9.6 percent now and jobs an issue, Mr. Chretien said that when the budget deficit is gone he will use part of budget surpluses to lower taxes, a move that he says will stimulate the economy and create jobs. But he also promised to create jobs during the last campaign.
The Liberal Party record "consists mainly of unkept promises," wrote J. Elmer Murphy, a columnist for The Journal-Pioneer, a local newspaper on Prince Edward Island. "Odd then that its re-election is taken for granted by almost everybody."
One explanation is that the backlash against Mr. Mulroney and the Conservatives split the opposition into regional protest movements and left Canada with what in essence is a one-party system. The only election fight then becomes the one to come in second and form the official opposition.
In 1993 Quebec separatists formed the Bloc Quebecois, which won enough seats to be designated Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition and thus viewed as the shadow government. Alienated westerners joined a right-wing movement from Alberta called the Reform Party, which is poised to take over as the opposition in the new Parliament.
On Friday, Mr. Chretien urged voters to reject regionalism. In a sign that he is worried about achieving a majority government, he said that only his party, with candidates in all 301 districts, could provide a government strong enough "to do what we need to do."
The Reform leader, Preston Manning, wants to end the uneven confederation between French-speaking Quebec and the rest of Canada that was hammered out in Charlottetown in 1864. In its place he endorses changes that would treat Quebec as just one of 10 equal Canadian provinces, a position that has won him considerable support in the west.
But it has also caused consternation in the rest of Canada, which fears that such a hard line could push Quebeckers to vote for independence if another referendum is held.
Of the leaders of the five major parties, only Alexa McDonough of the New Democratic Party has spoken out against weakening Canada's commitment to a compassionate society. She also criticized Mr. Manning's stand on Quebec, saying it would lead Canada "straight into a civil war."
Here in Canada's smallest province, lingering winter weather made voters grumpy even before Mr. Chretien's decision to call an election a year and a half before he had to. People have been far more focused on local issues than on the election, and the opening of the first bridge to the mainland today pushed election coverage off the front page of local newspapers.
"There's just no interest in this election for anybody," said Carla Arsenault, 20, of Charlottetown, who was not sure she would even vote on Monday.
The apathy of voters underscores their feelings that they have lost the chance to control what happens in Ottawa, said Maude Barlow, chairwoman of a national citizens' advocacy group called the Council of Canadians.
If there had been an effective opposition in Parliament during the last few years, Ms. Barlow said, Mr. Chretien would not have been able to go so far in changing the Canadian system. But she acknowledged that a more fundamental change also is reshaping Canada.
"This is a crucial time in our nation's history," she said. When Canada's liberal social consciousness was formed in the 1940's and 1950's, she said, "it was capitalism that was put on trial."
"Now," she said, the tables have turned and "it's the whole notion of government that is on trial."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada has apologized for falling short of his goals, but is favored in elections today. With his wife, Aline, he served a lunch crowd at a campaign stop in Ste.-Angele-de-Premont yesterday. (Reuters)

Map showing the location of Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island: In Charlottetown, the voters are focused on local issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, CANADA (90%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (72%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTETOWN, PE, CANADA (71%); 

COMPANY: CANADIAN BROADCASTING CORP (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, CANADA (90%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (72%); CHARLOTTETOWN, PE, CANADA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); TRENDS (67%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY JEAN CHRETIEN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1997



44 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
French Left Is Victorious In Elections for Parliament
French voters gave the Socialists and their allies a victory in parliamentary elections, rejecting President Jacques Chirac's austerity policies. Mr. Chirac had called the vote a year ahead of schedule, gambling that voters would allow his conservative coalition to continue cutting budgets to qualify France for a common European currency. Instead, the left won overwhelming support by promising to reduce France's 12.8 percent unemployment rate. A1
 
Albright Opens Link to Bosnia
With Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright presiding, Croatia reopened a bridge to Bosnia in an important, if largely symbolic, step to comply with the Balkan peace accords. The ceremony was part of Ms. Albright's tour through the region to press leaders to live up to their commitments. It included stops yesterday in the Serbian-controlled part of Bosnia, making her the highest American official to visit there. A3 

Turkish Leader May Call Vote
After 11 months in office, Turkey's first leader from an Islamic party, Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan, acknowledged that his coalition Government was crumbling and said he would call for new elections. In recent months his Government has come under pressure, particularly from the military, which opposes Mr. Erbakan's pro-Islamic policies. A3
 
Arabs Accused in Land Deaths
Jerusalem's police chief accused Palestinian security forces in two recent killings of Arabs suspected of selling land to Jews. The police chief, Gen. Yair Yitzhaki, said four Palestinian security members and two other men had been caught trying to kidnap an Arab land dealer. The Palestinian justice minister, Freih Abu Middein, dismissed the claims as "nonsense" and accused the Israeli intelligence services. A5
 
I.R.A. Aborts Belfast Attack
Police officials in Northern Ireland said the Irish Republican Army had threatened to detonate a land mine stored in a van in a Catholic section of West Belfast. The I.R.A. abandoned the attack because there were too many people on the street, the police said. The threat of fresh violence came as stalled peace talks were scheduled to resume on Tuesday. A8
 
Iranian Hard-Liner Keeps Post
The conservative cleric defeated in Iran's presidential election last week was re-elected speaker of Parliament. Ali Akbar Nateq-Nouri was returned to the post for a sixth year after offering assurances that hard-line members would work with with Mohammad Khatami, the moderate cleric who won the presidency in a stunning upset. (AP)
 
Violent Protest in South Korea
As many as 10,000 students battled riot police officers in Seoul, South Korea. The students were demanding the resignation of President Kim Young Sam after allegations of gross overspending in his election campaign. (Reuters)
 
NATIONAL A12, B9-12
 
Reports of Serious Crime Fall for Fifth-Straight Year
Reports of serious crime dropped for the fifth year in a row, preliminary figures from the F.B.I. show. Serious crime fell 3 percent last year, violent crime 7 percent and homicides 11 percent. The homicide rate was the lowest since 1970. A1

Wait Goes On in Denver
Jurors finished their third day of deliberations with no verdict in the Oklahoma City bombing trial of Timothy J. McVeigh. Federal District Court Judge Richard P. Matsch in Denver dismissed the 12-member jury at noon. The anxiety of survivors of the explosion and families of the victims grew with the delay. A1

Clinton's Accuser Is Warned
After lawyers for the woman suing President Clinton on charges of sexual harassment said they would probably present testimony by other women who they say accuse Mr. Clinton of propositioned them, the President's lawyer threatened to make an issue of the plaintiff's sexual history. A1

Tornado Victims Mourned
Survivors of a tornado that killed 27 people in Jarrell, Tex., gathered at a church there to share their grief in a memorial attended by Gov. George W. Bush. A12

For-Profit Schools Growing
The Edison Project, the venture into for-profit schools begun in 1991 by the entrepreneur Christopher Whittle, will double in size next year, to 25 schools in eight states. The revival of a project that was thought to be moribund demonstrates a change in the educational landscape. A12

Ranks Split in Tobacco Talks
Negotiators representing states in settlement talks with the tobacco industry are sharply divided over whether to offer the cigarette makers any immunity from litigation. One of the states' chief lawyers said a bar on punitive damages could be offered to the industry even if several states opposed it. B10
 
With Gritty Determination
The 11th annual American Institute of Architects' Sandcastle Competition was held in Galveston, Tex., with 1,750 participants in 66 teams wielding 40-gallon water drums, Army-issue shovels, wooden scaffolding and water sprayers powered by electric generators. The teams had five hours to build structures that, in many cases, had been months in the planning. B9
 
More Are Bitten by Dogs
Dog bites serious enough to require medical care increased 37 percent in the United States from 1986 to 1994, partly because people are buying more ferocious dogs for protection, the Government has reported. B12
 
Pilot Killed at Air Show
An F-86 fighter jet performing before thousands of people at an air show in Broomfield, Colo., crashed, killing the 63-year-old pilot, officials said. No spectators were hurt. The pilot was not immediately identified. No one else was on board. (AP)

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Malcolm X's Widow Burned And Grandson Is Charged
Betty Shabazz, the widow of Malcolm X, was clinging to life, burned over 80 percent of her body, after what the police said was an attack by her distraught grandson, who apparently set her ablaze with gasoline in her Yonkers apartment. The boy, 12, was charged as a juvenile. His mother, Qubilah Bahiyah Shabazz, was indicted in 1995 on charges of plotting to kill the Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan. A1

Down to the Wire in New Jersey
The Democratic candidates for Governor of New Jersey, Robert E. Andrews, James E. McGreevey and Michael Murphy, completed their last weekend of campaigning before Tuesday's primary. The race appears tight. A1

Success to Crime Fighters
The New York City Police Department solved a higher percentage of active murder investigations last year than it had in 37 years. Officials attributed the success to the decrease in murders committed by strangers, better communications among divisions of the department and a more active pursuit of informants. B1

'Titanic' Wins Best Musical
'Titanic' won the Tony for best musical and was recognized in four other categories. The musical's $10 million budget, technical problems and improbable subject had been the targets of taunts and jokes before it opened. "Chicago" was the big winner, though, with six awards. "Last Night at Ballyhoo" was named best play. Bebe Neuwirth, James Naughton, Janet McTeer and Christopher Plummer won acting awards. B1

Four Killed in Plane Crash
A father, son and two friends died when their small plane crashed while trying to land at Republic Airport on Long Island. Witnesses said the plane's engine began to sputter and falter as it made its approach. It crashed in a vacant parking lot. B2

Cleanup Plan Is Criticized
The Brookhaven National Laboratory's plan to clean up radioactive contamination of ground water is coming under increasing criticism from environmentalists and scientists who say it is ineffectual and from Brookhaven administrators who say it is a waste of money. B7

Four Dreams Come True
Four tickets had the winning number for the $70 million New York State Lotto jackpot, the third largest in state Lotto history. B3

BUSINESS DAY D1-12

Doubts Over AT&T Merger
Lawyers, lawmakers and lobbyists see little hope that courts and regulatory officials will approve the proposed merger between AT&T and SBC Communications, whose predecessor, Southwestern Bell, was spun off when AT&T's Bell System was broken up in 1984. But both companies are said to be optimistic that the $50 billion deal will go forward. D1

Nightmare for Dreamworks
Of the four prime-time television shows the Dreamworks studio produced, the one it was readying for syndication and others intended for new network lineups, only one is being broadcast. The situation has provided a hard lesson for the company created by Jeffrey Katzenberg, Steven Spielberg and David Geffen. D9

Business Digest D1
 
SPORTSMONDAY C1-8
 
Bailey Alone at the Finish
Donovan Bailey won a $1 million challenge race against Michael Johnson after Johnson pulled up with an injured leg about halfway through the 150-meter event. C1

ARTS C9-14
 
OBITUARIES B13

EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: Reed Hundt's legacy, a job for the Supreme Court, Philip Taubman on the Baltic curse.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Anthony Lewis.
 
Chronicle B5
 
Bridge C14
 
Crossword C13
 
Weather C14

GRAPHIC: Photos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); TURKEY (92%); EUROPE (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); TURKEY (92%); EUROPE (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CROATIA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (87%); VIOLENT CRIME (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); RELIGION (72%); RIOTS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (56%); 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1997



45 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1842 words

HEADLINE: To the Rescue of a Grande Dame of Museums;
A Knight of Academe Braves the New-York Historical Society's Checkered Past

BYLINE: By PAUL GOLDBERGER 

 BODY:
Like a spurned bride who decides that cohabitation is better than solitude, the financially troubled New-York Historical Society, after six years of failed attempts to join permanently with several New York City cultural institutions, last month quietly signed an agreement to affiliate its library with New York University.
Under the terms of the agreement, which the society and the university both call a collaboration, N.Y.U. will catalogue and preserve the society's vast collections of manuscripts, photographs, prints, architectural records and books, which on their own constitute one of the largest private libraries in the country. 
 The arrangement to rescue the library, much of which is in poor condition, is the final Band-Aid the society has put in place to stabilize itself after nearly shutting down in the early 90's. It follows a $7.5-million grant from the Luce Foundation for restoration of art and artifacts and their installation in a new permanent gallery, as well as $15 million in emergency work on its sprawling classical building at 77th Street and Central Park West, a landmark that had been showing as much deterioration as many of the books and objects inside.
For an institution that in recent years has been noted as much for the extent of its financial and administrative woes as for the strength of its collections -- its problems have even been chronicled in a new, book-length study, "The New-York Historical Society: Lessons From One Nonprofit's Long Struggle for Survival," by Kevin M. Guthrie -- the society has come a long way in the last three years. Its survival no longer seems in jeopardy, and its day-to-day affairs are under the supervision of a strong administrator, Betsy Gotbaum, who served as New York City Parks Commissioner under Mayor David N. Dinkins and joined the society in 1994.
Still, the long-term financial picture is far from healthy. This unusual hybrid institution -- one part museum, one part library and historical archive -- operates on a bare-bones budget of $5.2 million a year, no more than what it spent to maintain a skeleton staff from early 1993 to mid-1995, when the society's economic situation was so desperate that it closed its doors to the public and stopped mounting exhibitions.
Today it has an endowment of approximately $22 million, $16 million of which came from the proceeds of a controversial sale of works that included Old Master paintings. That sale, through Sotheby's, raised questions in the museum world, since the society admitted it intended to use the proceeds not to buy more works of art, as museum protocols direct when objects are de-accessioned, but to keep itself solvent: quite literally living off the family jewels.
Now, though the society's financial condition may be best described as serious, it is no longer desperate. The galleries are open on a limited basis. And the three remedies -- the Luce grant to restore the collections, the emergency work on the building and the new N.Y.U. affiliation -- respond to the institution's most urgent short-term needs. But they only begin to prepare the it for the 21st century.

A Home Library Writ Large
Although the library contains one of the pre-eminent collections of historical material in the nation, the society's chief treasure, only about 30 percent of the 650,000 books, two million manuscripts, 15,000 maps and atlases and 10,000 newspapers are catalogued at all, Ms. Gotbaum said, and even fewer electronically. "Cataloguing stopped altogether two years ago," she said. "Our one cataloguer moved away, and we have no funds to replace her."
Carlton Rochell, dean of N.Y.U.'s libraries, likens the organization of the society's library to a home library writ large. "Say you've got a few thousand books in your apartment," he said. "When you want to find one, like the poetry anthology with the blue cover, you know it's in the second bedroom. Well, that's the way it works at the society."
Because most of the librarians have been there for years, their own memories are often enough to find books. "But I think about the fact that none of us will be around forever," Dr. Rochell said, "and we need access to these collections to be instantaneous and universal."
Under the arrangement, the society's collections will be made accessible both to library users and through the Internet via N.Y.U.'s electronic database, called Bobcat Plus, which is considered one of the most technologically advanced library cataloguing systems in the country. The work is expected to take five years, the term of the society's agreement with N.Y.U. It is budgeted at roughly $5.6 million, which the university and the society expect to pay through a foundation grant. It will bring one immediate benefit to the public: the library, which has been open only three days a week since the 193-year-old society descended into a fiscal and administrative abyss in 1992, will move to a five-day schedule.
The arrangement with N.Y.U. is the second try at forging ties with the university. That earlier attempt fell apart three years ago, amid accusations from public officials that the object-rich, cash-poor historical society was virtually ceding to N.Y.U. many of its most precious assets. This time the society is calling more of the shots.
Ms. Gotbaum will retain final authority over the collections and the cataloguing work, and Dr. Rochell and his staff will report to her. The library collections will physically remain at the historical society, and all cataloguing and conservation work will be done on its premises.
In some ways, the new agreement with N.Y.U. stands as a mark of the historical society's renewed strength, just as the earlier arrangement seemed to underscore the society's weakness.
The two institutions resumed contact in October, when L. Jay Oliva, N.Y.U.'s president, a historian, invited Ms. Gotbaum and her husband, Victor, the labor leader, to a dinner party at his apartment in Greenwich Village. "I remember it was October, because Victor watched the playoffs on TV while Jay and I just talked and talked," Ms. Gotbaum said. "It was clear that the university still felt there could be mutual benefit to doing something together, and we knew that we could not do anything about the library on our own."
Neither the society nor N.Y.U. will discuss the source of the money they expect to receive to begin the library project. People close to the society say that the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, which has assisted the historical society in the past and has made large grants to other libraries and educational institutions to enable them to introduce advanced technology, has indicated interest in supporting the N.Y.U. affiliation.
Except for emergency appropriations made to help it through the worst of its crisis, the society gets no money from the city or state, and it is not part of the so-called Cultural Institutions Group, the organization of New York City institutions that get ongoing financial assistance from the city government.
For years the historical society spurned the notion of governmental aid, and its refusal was indicative of an attitude that ultimately brought it to the brink of collapse. As Mr. Guthrie points out in his book, the society has lived a kind of "Perils of Pauline" existence for much of its history. In 1825, just 21 years after its founding, it was so deeply in debt that the sale of its library was actively considered. In 1899, The New York Herald observed dourly that "darkness and neglect have been the portion of the great aggregation of books, pictures" and "antiquities" owned by the society.
The society was controlled for much of its existence by a small, tightly knit board of trustees that took pride in staying as far away as possible from contemporary modes of fund-raising, exhibition design or audience building. Like an institution out of a Louis Auchincloss novel, the society barely seemed to notice that the world was passing it by; not only in the 19th century but all the way through the 1970's many trustees seemed discomfited by the thought of too many people crowding their galleries or using the grand three-story-high reading room.
Those days ended in the 1980's, when the society tried, perhaps too abruptly, to reverse course. Its president, Robert Goelet, scion of an old New York real-estate family, decided that the way to assure its economic future was to sell the air rights over its building for an apartment tower, while a new director, James Bell, moved aggressively to mount more popular exhibitions. The tower idea was denounced by neighbors and civic activists and was killed by the Landmarks Preservation Commission in 1984. Dr. Bell's program was better received but turned out to be costly, and the society began to incur significant annual deficits.

An Attic of Objects Stored Without Care
As the 1980's wore on, it became clear that the neglect observed in the 1890's was not an anomaly but a pattern that had continued nearly unbroken through the 20th century. The society had been acquiring objects for years without cataloguing them properly. To call the historical society the city's attic was no mere metaphor, but a description of the level of care given many of its possessions.
Works of art and historical artifacts were stored in a rented warehouse in Paterson, N.J. In 1986 a consultant described its conditions as "the most blatantly shocking that I have observed in my entire museum career." By 1987-88, the year of the stock-market crash, the society's annual deficit had reached $3.5-million. Dr. Bell resigned. The roster of board members, staff and administration turned over rapidly and a steady stream of rescue schemes followed in the early 90's.
Potential mergers with other institutions that would allow the society to retain its own identity came to naught. A study underwritten by the Mellon Foundation looked into combining the society's collections with those of the New York Public Library. But the public library was not interested in operating the society as a satellite division, like the Performing Arts Library at Lincoln Center, in part because the arrangement would dilute the strength of its history collections at the main library on 42d Street. Understandably, the society had misgivings about the probable loss of independence within an institution with a budget many times as large.
Paradoxically, a potential merger with the Museum of the City of New York that on paper seemed ideal -- giving New York one strong history museum instead of two underfinanced ones -- was derailed because of a perception that the Museum of the City of New York would be subsumed by the historical society. Though it would have been logical to close the Museum of the City of New York's smaller building at 103d Street and Fifth Avenue and put the combined institution in the society's more central location, it could well have been seen as a slap in the face to Harlem, a politically unthinkable gesture for a mayor to allow.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 18, 1997, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 2 about the New-York Historical Society misstated its record of support from New York State. Apart from emergency appropriations during its recent crisis, the society has indeed received state funds, in the form of frequent grants from the State Council on the Arts.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HOUSE OF HOPE The New-York Historical Society's classical building on Central Park West.; STACKS OF THE PAST Betsy Gotbaum, executive director of the New-York Historical Society, surrounded by its trove of 10,000 old newspapers. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
 
Chronology: "Two Troubled Centuries"
The New-York Historical Society's woes predated the upheavals that began in the late 1980's. A look at some missteps and troubled times.
 
1804 The society is founded to collect and preserve materials on the history of New York State and the United States.
 
1825 Considers the sale of library to pay off tremendous debt, but is saved in 1827 by an appropriation of $8,000 from the State Legislature.
 
1868 Refuses city's offer of land in Central Park, citing commit-ment to private-sector support only. The land later becomes home to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
 
1899 The New York Herald bemoans the neglect and inaccessibility of much of the society's holdings.
 
1917 At a meeting, one member declares the society an old men's club, lacking appeal or service to the public.
 
1956 A report by an outside librarian criticizes the society's cataloguing backlog and lack of a policy on acquiring works.
 
1986 A consultant calls conditions at the society's warehouse for art and artifacts the most blatantly shocking he has ever seen.
 
1988 The society lays off a quarter of all employees and announces it will sell 40 European paintings to stem growing financial crisis.
 
1993 The board votes to shut down the library, cancel all public programs and dismiss more than half the staff.
 
1994 A plan to combine with N.Y.U. falls through, following similar failures with the New York Public Library and the Museum of the City of New York.
 
(Source: Kevin M. Guthrie, "The New-York Historical Society: Lessons From One Nonprofit's Long Struggle for Survival")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY; NEW YORK UNIVERSITY METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY; NEW YORK UNIVERSITY METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (77%); PAINTING (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERGER, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1997



46 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: Storm Warning: Bigger Hurricanes and More of Them

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

 BODY:
THE East and Gulf Coasts of the United States may be entering a long-anticipated, prolonged siege of more frequent and more destructive hurricanes, forecasters say.
They predict that this summer, more hurricanes than normal will develop in the tropical North Atlantic for the third straight year. This would make 1995-97 the most active three-year period on record for the pinwheeling oceanic cyclones, and the experts say that could be only the beginning. 
 The 1970's, 1980's and early 1990's were a time of relatively infrequent hurricanes. Those years did have their big storms: 7 of the 10 most costly hurricanes ever to strike the United States mainland did so over that stretch, including Hurricane Andrew in 1992, the costliest ever. But a new Federal study attributes the trend of escalating damage over that period to expanding population and exploding development rather than more frequent or powerful storms.
Now the atmosphere and ocean appear to have entered a new and more ominous hurricane phase. Some experts believe the turbulent stretch beginning two years ago signifies a return to the 1940's, 1950's and 1960's, a period of high hurricane activity in the United States. If that is so, according to the new Federal study, the cost of damage wrought by hurricanes -- already the most expensive natural disasters in America -- could soar to new heights.
Scientists offer varying explanations of what is responsible for the increase in hurricane frequency. One new study has found that sea-surface temperatures in 1995 were the highest on record in the tropical North Atlantic. That year, 19 tropical storms and hurricanes, double the 1946-1995 average, formed in the Atlantic. The authors of the study concluded that warmer seas encouraged incipient hurricanes to develop by infusing them with more energy. Temperatures in the region of hurricane births, between 10 degrees and 20 degrees north latitude, have remained above average since 1995.
Coincidentally or not, 1995 also saw the highest average global surface temperatures on record, and some scientists say this raises the possibility that global warming is contributing to the increased frequency of hurricanes. The coincidence "is suggestive of some link to global warming, but that needs to be proved," said Dr. Mark A. Saunders, chief author of the study. It is "just one of the possibilities," he said.
Other say that global warming is almost certainly not the cause. One is Dr. William M. Gray, an atmospheric scientist and hurricane expert at Colorado State University in Fort Collins. The rise in sea temperature "is not related to the warming of the planet," he said, noting that global warming has been slow, while the Atlantic sea-surface temperature jumped in a matter of months.
It was Dr. Gray and his group of researchers who correctly predicted that 1995 would be one of the most active seasons on record, although they underestimated 1996. In April, the group forecast that 1997 would also bring more hurricanes than average, including the more intense ones. These major storms are defined as those with peak sustained winds of more than 110 miles an hour, and they account for 75 percent of all hurricane damage. Lesser hurricanes have peak winds of at least 74 miles an hour.
The forecasters predicted that the 1997 hurricane season, which officially began on Sunday and lasts through November, would produce 7 hurricanes, 3 of which would be in the intense category, and 4 lesser tropical storms strong enough to be named. By comparison, 11 of the 19 named storms in 1995 were hurricanes, 5 of them severe; last year, 9 of the 13 named storms were hurricanes and 6 were severe.
The Colorado group's forecast applies to an area encompassing the Atlantic Ocean, the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico. It is to be updated on Friday, but Dr. Gray said the update was not expected to depart substantially from the April prediction. The forecasters do not attempt to predict whether or where any of the hurricanes will strike land.
The forecasts are based on an array of predictive signs and atmospheric phenomena that Dr. Gray has identified as determining hurricane activity. One is the amount of rainfall in the Sahel region of western Africa, where the small areas of low pressure that are the embryos of hurricanes first form. When the Sahel is wetter, Dr. Gray found, more embryos form. This year, the Sahel is wet.
Another factor is the phenomenon known as El Nino, the huge pool of warm water that develops every two to seven years in the eastern tropical Pacific, changing weather patterns around the world. When it is in place, high-level winds blowing from the west tend to shear off the tops of developing hurricanes in the adjacent Atlantic, causing them to abort. El Nino may make an appearance later this year, forecasters say, but the Colorado group predicts that it will not do so in time to affect the hurricane picture.
Other elements include the behavior of stratospheric winds that circle the globe high above the equator and weather features far remote from the Atlantic hurricane belt -- things, for example, like the temperature high above Singapore. On balance, the forecasters say, the indicators point to higher-than-average activity this year.
One of the most powerful indicators, according to the new study by Dr. Saunders and Andrew R. Harris, climate scientists at University College London in Britain, is the Atlantic sea-surface temperature. Their statistical analysis found that while most of the relevant factors were indeed favorable for hurricane development in the banner year of 1995, the dominating influence was the unusually warm ocean. The temperature in the region where hurricanes develop was 1.2 degrees Fahrenheit above the 1946-1995 average, a record. The development region was 0.36 of a degree warmer than average last year and is about 0.9 of a degree warmer now. This, said Dr. Saunders, presages another active season. His study appeared in the May 15 issue of the journal Geophysical Research Letters.
The researchers suggest that warmer seas cause more water to evaporate from the surface. With evaporation, latent heat is released in the atmosphere, and the researchers believe that this is what imparts more energy to the embryonic storms coming out of Africa, making it more likely that they will develop into hurricanes. "It seems that this is a stronger effect that any other mechanism, like El Nino or the monsoon in the western Sahel," Dr. Saunders said.
The question, he said, is whether the rising sea temperature is a natural expression of the climate system's variability, independent of any influence from a warming atmosphere. Dr. Gray, for his part, says he believes the warmer ocean temperature is "a manifestation of a major change in North Atlantic ocean circulation." Stately currents in the North Atlantic undergo periodic shifts on decadal time scales. Dr. Gray said he believed that a new pattern was in place, and that it was likely to presage a decade or two of above-average hurricane activity.
"This is the greatest fear we have," he said, "that we're entering a new era. I believe we are."
If so, the new Federal study on hurricane damage may offer a preview of what lies ahead. In the study, Dr. Roger Pielke Jr. of the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo., and Dr. Christopher Landsea of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's hurricane research division in Miami calculated how much damage would result from past hurricanes if they had occurred in 1995, when the coasts held many more people and much more wealth than earlier.
The calculation, which also accounts for inflation, shows that if the more numerous storms of the very active quarter-century prior to 1970 were to hit the mainland now, each of the storms would cause far more damage than it did back then.
It has been suggested in the past that escalating hurricane damage in more recent decades has resulted from an increase in the number and severity of storms. The Pielke-Landsea analysis found this is not so. In fact, when all hurricane damage was assessed as if it had occurred in 1995, the four biggest hurricanes of the last eight years were no longer the most damaging in history. Andrew, which exacted an all-time record $26.5 billion in actual damages, was downgraded to second place by a monster that struck Florida and Alabama in 1926. Hugo (1989), Opal (1995) and Fran (1996) slip far down the list.
The analysis, its authors wrote, indicates clearly "that the United States has been fortunate in recent decades with regard to storm losses." Now, they wrote, multibillion-dollar losses may become increasingly frequent, and it may be "only a matter of time" before a single storm exacts $50 billion in damages.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stormy Weather: Aug. 29, 1995 -- Storms were so prevalent in the 1995 hurricane season that on one day two tropical storms and two hurricanes were moving toward North America. A study says sea-surface temperatures hit a record high that year in the tropical North Atlantic. (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration)(pg. C1)
 
Diagram: "A Deadly Threat Intensifies"
Citing a variety of climatic indicators, scientists fear an increase in Atlantic hurricanes over the next decade or two. An increase, if it occurs, could cause severe problems along the East Coast of the United States, much of which has been intensely developed during years of
relative calm.
 
Three key climate factors that cause . . .
 
. . . Fewer hurricanes
 El Nino present
 Cooler sea surface
 Drier monsoon season
 
. . . More hurricanes
 El Nino absent
 Warmer sea surface
 Wetter monsoon season
 
Researchers have long known that wet weather in the Sahel, a region south of the Sahara Desert, is associated with Atlantic hurricanes. Researchers say that even a small rise in ocean temperature also fuels them, especially if warm El Nino currents are missing in the Pacific. El Nino winds shear off the tops of developing hurricanes.
 
Diagram shows how Atlantic hurricanes develop. (Source: Dr. Mark A. Saunders/University College London)(pg. C1)

Table: "Big Storms: Weighing the Damage" lists the 30 most damaging United States hurricanes. Estimates of damage are in 1995 dollars, based on inflation, personal property increases and changes in population of coastal counties from 1925. (Sources: Dr. Roger A. Pielke Jr.; Dr. Christopher W. Landsea)(pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (96%); COLORADO, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); SAHARA DESERT (74%); 

CITY: FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EASTERN STATES (US); GULF OF MEXICO; ATLANTIC OCEAN; UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (96%); COLORADO, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); SAHARA DESERT (74%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS HURRICANES (92%); WEATHER (92%); OCEANS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); METEOROLOGY (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); TRENDS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997



47 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Observer;
The Big Barbecue

BYLINE: By RUSSELL BAKER 

 BODY:
The great story is prosperity. It is here, and with a vengeance. There is so much money washing around the country that people have to get out of bed at dawn on Saturdays to get it all spent before the week is out.
Treat yourself to an old-fashioned Saturday sleep-in and you won't have enough time to spend it all before next week's bundle starts rolling in. 
Washington journalists, trained to concentrate on politics, keep saying that news has ended. Nonsense. Political news may have ended, but the economic news is thunderous.
Later it will have a thunderous effect on politics, but that inevitability seems far-fetched right now, like summer heat lightning seen on a distant horizon. Meanwhile we are wallowing in a gorgeous, juicy economic boom.
Millionaires are multiplying like flies.
Farmland is being paved over with thousands of miles of new streets running through thousands of new housing developments.
Woodlands are being chopped down for "industrial parks."
Suburbs are sprouting gigantic new malls and, for buyers so hot to consume that they can't take the extra 10 minutes needed to reach the big malls for all-out spending, strip malls proliferate along the highways.
Retail-shopping warehouses packed with consumer goods are rising wherever a farmer is willing to sell his cornfield and become a millionaire ex-farmer. Hardware, stationery, groceries, toys, computers, electronic playthings -- name it and there will be a warehouse selling it 15 miles beyond the inner city.
This fat, rich America sprawls over such a far-flung landscape that it is accessible only to motorists. And what a show of car wealth you see maneuvering on vast retail parking lots. German Mercedes-Benzes, BMW's, Audis. Japan's luxurious Infiniti and Lexus. Gaudy, gas-guzzling Range Rovers.
Stock markets -- everybody knows about the stock markets. Zingo! Bingo! Shazam and Wow! Lord, how the money rolls in!
One effect of the boom is to immunize President Clinton against his enemies. And this is one President certain to be remembered, as Richard Nixon is, for his enemies.
How hard it must be, how unfair it must seem to those who detest him, how unjust that his popularity remains high despite every effort to cut him down to size.
Paula Jones, Whitewater, Dick Morris with his polls and prostitute, Asian money finagling, Mr. Clinton's lack of perceptible political beliefs, the swarm of independent investigators harassing his Administration -- nothing shakes the public's contentment with this Presidency, if the popularity polls are correct, as polls nowadays usually are, alas.
The public's attitude appears to be "First things first." The first thing now is the big money. The public seems indisposed to trade the joys of the fattened wallet for the sour pleasures of humiliating another President.
When Joseph P. Kennedy, founder of the famous political clan, was asked how he managed to get safely out of the market with a fortune before the 1929 crash, he said, "Only a fool holds out for top dollar." Today's Americans may think that only a fool would create a political crisis when times are this good.
Now somebody will note that not everyone is raking in the money. True, but here Mr. Clinton has the best of all possible worlds. Those making the biggest bucks are upper-brackets people, Republican by nature yet not apt to let political affiliation deprive them of constantly expanding income.
Those left out of the barbecue are the bottom-brackets crowd; to wit, people who vote Democratic no matter how miserably they are rewarded, and people who don't vote at all.
This wretched bunch is being told to shape up or ship out, as the Clinton Government withdraws from the old Democratic tradition of looking charitably on life's losers.
Laissez-faire is triumphant. Economic Darwinism is in the air. A magnificent, unleashed capitalism -- freed of all social or moral restraints -- will be good for life's losers in the long run. One of these days. Such is the philosophy of the boom-boom age.
Later we shall see.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); WRITERS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); SUBURBS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (72%); RICHARD NIXON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997



48 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Unicef Says U.N. Reforms Could Harm the World's Children

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 2

 BODY:
As the United Nations prepares for the broadest restructuring in its history, the executive director of Unicef took the unusual step today of warning publicly that, under the proposed changes, the agency is in danger of losing its independent voice for children around the world.
The director, Carol Bellamy, a former New York politician, told Unicef's executive board that, under plans now being considered, the agency's activities would be folded into a group dealing with social and economic development. Other Unicef functions would be taken over by a separate emergency relief team. 
 Unicef and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees are concerned that they will be significantly altered in a reshuffling that is intended to streamline and strengthen the United Nations. Both have been widely praised for effectiveness and both have the support of Congress, which has been generally cool toward the United Nations.
In a separate proposal that raises different concerns, the High Commissioner for Refugees may become the coordinator for all international relief, picking up new responsibilities that some officials believe could dilute the image of the agency known as the world's strongest advocate for displaced people.
Unicef, until now, has maintained its own operations overseas, dealing with governments on issues strictly related to children, including immunization and education. Its reputation has enabled Unicef, which depends on voluntary contributions, to raise more than $300 million annually from private sources in addition to government donations. The United States contributes $100 million, a grant Congress protected this year after the Clinton Administration tried to cut it by 10 percent.
"If Unicef is obliged to seek permission or clearance before acting for children," Ms. Bellamy said, "then this organization would be a markedly different Unicef."
She said Unicef's effectiveness depends on its "independent entity and voice."
Plans for restructuring the United Nations will be made public in mid-July by Secretary General Kofi Annan, who has already proposed administrative changes that are within his power to make. The larger reorganization must be approved by the General Assembly, the forum of the 185 member nations, and the international politicking and turf wars have already begun.
The changes involving Unicef have prompted meetings around the world.
"Unicef has a very special relationship with political leaders," said Robert Smith, executive director of Britain's Committee for Unicef, one of 36 national committees that raise money for the agency. "By having direct access to presidents, national and provincial premiers and ministers of health and ministers of social welfare, Unicef can get things done."
United Nations officials planning the reform under the direction of Maurice Strong, a Canadian who organized the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro five years ago, say they are well aware of the importance of Unicef's appeal.
"Everyone is very sensitive to the need to keep the brand name, so to speak, and visibility of the individual components of the United Nations, many of which do have considerable name recognition and public appeal," a high official involved in the restructuring said. "Of course Unicef is at the top of that pile with generations of work and funding. The last thing that anyone wants to do is jeopardize that."
This official said that in both development and emergency relief, "the current situation is not adequate to the needs of the day." This widely shared view led to the proposal affecting the High Commissioner for Refugees.
The proposal would abolish the United Nations Department of Humanitarian Affairs, which is based in New York and has had trouble dealing with international emergencies, and transfer those and other functions to the High Commissioner's headquarters in Geneva. The High Commissioner's job, now held by Sadako Ogata of Japan, would be expanded to include responsibility for coordinating a wide range of emergency programs.
Some diplomats say it is a mistake to burden the commissioner with too many tasks at a time when refugee flows are at their highest peak in modern history, and reports of atrocities are mounting from places like Congo. The Security Council is increasingly reluctant to put muscle behind the High Commissioner for Refugees or the High Commissioner for Human Rights when those agencies want to investigate atrocities, protect refugee camps or call in an armed force.
Arthur C. Helton, a lawyer who has specialized in refugee issues and who now directs migration programs for the Open Society Institute in New York, described the proposed changes affecting relief and refugee protection as inadequate.
"I don't think there is the stomach for the real visionary changes that would make these institutions and, more importantly, the government sponsors in the background, capable of addressing emergencies at the level of root causes," he said. "This is not just a technical question. It is far more fundamentally political."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (50%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REFUGEES (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); APPROVALS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); 

PERSON: BELLAMY, CAROL; CROSSETTE, BARBARA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997



49 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1717 words

HEADLINE: Doc Cheatham, Jazz Journeyman Who Blossomed Into a Star, Dies at 91

BYLINE: By PETER WATROUS 

 BODY:
Doc Cheatham, a lyrical, elegant trumpet player whose career blossomed when he was in his 70's and who then became one of the jazz's best known stars, died yesterday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. Mr. Cheatham, who would have turned 92 on June 13, lived in Manhattan.
An indefatigable player, he performed last weekend at Blues Alley, a club in Washington. 
 For much of his career, Doc Cheatham was a soldier in jazz's trenches. He was a valued sideman in big bands beginning in the 1920's, and when times grew hard for big bands in the late 40's, he became a mainstay of Latin orchestras. He rarely improvised, and he never spent time in the spotlight. Mainly, he was respected by his peers as a lead trumpeter, a dependable and disciplined musician whose job it was to whip a trumpet section into shape: hardly a position of glamour, though one of undeniable importance. And he was considered one of the best at it.
But rare for a musician and rarer still for a brass player, Mr. Cheatham emerged in his own right in the late 1960's as a brilliantly sensitive improviser and leader of stellar small groups. He became an acclaimed performer in small clubs, large concert halls and at jazz festivals throughout the world. But his appearances were not exercises in nostalgia. His tone was still pure, his improvisations still graceful and his high register still astonishing even as he entered his 90's.
With his elbows pointing out and his trumpet pointed to the ceiling, he seemed to be invoking the gods. When Mr. Cheatham improvised, other musicians had to beware: in the ferocious competitions known as cutting sessions, his combination of tone, invention and humor left other musicians standing at the curb.
After he had outplayed a younger horn player at a major festival, he told a reporter: "Well, I'm sorry about that. But I'm going to keep doing it until I can't."
His solos were admired for their spare lyricism. He set up his high notes with the sort of perfect timing that made each successive phrase seem like part of a lovely, carefully considered design.
"Taking a solo is like an electric shock," Mr. Cheatham told Whitney Balliett of The New Yorker in 1982. "First, I have no idea what I will play, but then something in my brain leads me to build very rapidly, and I start thinking real fast from note to note. I don't worry about chords, because I can hear the harmonic structure in the back of my mind. I have been through all that so many years it is second nature to me.
"I also have what I think of as a photograph of the melody running in my head. I realize quickly there is no one way to go in a solo. It's like traveling from here to the Bronx -- there are several ways, and you must choose the right way immediately. So I do, and at the same time I never forget to tell a story in my solo."
It wasn't until he was a septuagenarian that Mr. Cheatham also emerged as an engaging singer, picking through lyrics with a casual, sly wit. He chose gentle, wistful songs like "My Buddy," "Cherry," and "I Guess I'll Get the Papers and Go Home" and infused them with warmth and sensitivity. John S. Wilson once described him in The New York Times as singing "with a twinkle in his eye and a twinkle in his voice (especially when he revises a line in "I Can't Get Started" and sings "Ma Rainey had me to tea," a reference to his first recording session, which was with the blues singer Ma Rainey in 1926)."
Mr. Cheatham's vocalizing, like his trumpet playing, was in keeping with his personality: understated, funny and clever. He also became adept at something uncommon in jazz, an ability to talk to audiences, using his courtly charm to point up the spirit and content of his music. A dapper, rail-thin man, he made shyness seem like good manners, although he appeared rarely to miss anything that was going on.
"The thing I learned from Doc was economy," said the trumpeter Jon Faddis, who regularly performed with him. "When a musician reaches his 70's or 80's, every note becomes profound, and Doc was like that, each note had its own meaning."
Adolphus Anthony Cheatham was born on June 13, 1905 in Nashville. His mother had been a teacher, and his father, a barber, was partly descended from the Choctaws and Cherokees who had settled Cheatham County, Tenn. He started playing music when he was 15, first on the drums, then moving to saxophone and cornet. By the early 1920's he was working in the pit band at the Bijou Theater in Nashville, where he had the opportunity to work behind many of the great blues singers that passed through the city, including Bessie, Mamie and Clara Smith and Ethel Waters.
"Clara Smith was twice as powerful as Bessie,"Mr. Cheatham told Mr. Balliett. "She shook the rafters. And she was rough. You better not make one mistake when she came off the train tired and mean and evil."
In the mid-20's he moved to Chicago and began to play with regional bands, including John Williams's Synco Jazzers. "My parents didn't care for my becoming a musician at all." he remembered. "I think they hoped I'd somehow study to be a doctor, because I used to play in a little band over at the Meharry Medical College, which is how I got my nickname."
He struggled to establish himself in Chicago, living with five other musicians in a room in a boarding house. He performed with Lil Armstrong, Louis Armstrong's wife, and was introduced to New Orleans music through the many bands that were playing it in Chicago at the time. He picked up his mute technique from King Oliver and became friends with Louis Armstrong, who often had Mr. Cheatham take his place when he could not make it to a job.
In 1927 he moved to Philadelphia, where he played second trumpet behind Sidney De Paris in Wilbur De Paris's band. (Mr. Cheatham recalled Wilbur De Paris as "a tight man," explaining: "I lived at his house, and he charged me for rent and food. He kept a file on all the extra biscuits I ate.")
He moved in 1928 to New York City, where he worked with the drummer and band leader Chick Webb and heard the trumpeter Jabbo Smith ("who was faster than Louis and seemed even greater to me"). He spent three years with Sam Wooding's band in Europe. When he returned, he joined Rex Stewart and Joe Smith in the trumpet section of McKinney's Cotton Pickers. "It was like a college of jazz," he recalled.
In 1931 he became a member of Cab Calloway's orchestra at the Cotton Club in Harlem. Mr. Cheatham spent eight years with the Calloway band; he admired the flamboyant leader and absorbed his showmanship but also his careful attention to musical detail.
In 1939, Mr. Cheatham came down with a mysterious illness that dogged him for many years. When he was released from the hospital, he spent time in Europe recuperating, and on his return to the United States, he played in the orchestras of Teddy Wilson and Benny Carter. But he still did not feel well; he quit playing for a time and took a job in the post office. In 1943, he became part of Eddie Haywood's sextet, one of the most esteemed small bands then working in New York, occasionally drawing attention for the quality of his lyrical improvisations.
As with many veterans of the big bands, Mr. Cheatham often had to work on the periphery of jazz in the 50's and 60's. Big bands had become less popular as rock-and-roll took over the public imagination. So Mr. Cheatham spent two decades as the lead trumpeter with Afro-Cuban groups, including Perez Prado's band and Machito's orchestra, and he was a regular in the recording studio; his trumpet can be heard on one of Latin music's most important albums, Machito's "Kenya."
But he continued to find work where he could as a jazz musician. In the 50's he played with the trombonist Vic Dickenson at Storyville, a club in Boston owned by the impresario George Wein; and he appeared with Wilbur De Paris again, as well as with the pianist Sammy Price and the flutist Herbie Mann.
In 1957 he was chosen to appear on the CBS television show "Sound of Jazz" with a group of legendary trumpet players: Rex Allen, Rex Stewart, Joe Wilder, Joe Newman and Roy Eldridge. He declined to take any solos but agreed to play obbligatos behind Billie Holiday; their segment on the blues "Fine and Mellow" has become a classic.
In the 60's he led his own group in New York and performed with Benny Goodman. It was with Mr. Goodman's quintet that Mr. Cheatham emerged as a significant improviser. To do so, he set himself tasks: He listened to young trumpeters, including Clifford Brown. He listened to important older trumpeters. He combed his solos to rid them of cliches, and he made recordings of his performances.
When he was in his late 60's, he left the Latin orchestra of Ricardo Rey to rededicate himself to jazz. He formed a new band, and in 1974 he opened the Nice Jazz Festival in France for George Wein, an engagement that helped to re-establish Mr. Cheatham on the international scene.
But it wasn't until 1980, when he was in his 70's, that he became a genuine star. He became a fixture in Greenwich Village, playing on Sunday afternoons at Sweet Basil. He became a perennial at the JVC Festival (the present incarnation of Mr. Wein's Newport Jazz Festival), at Carnegie Hall's jazz programs (often with Mr. Faddis) and at Lincoln Center's jazz programs. In 1982 he was given a tribute by the long-running New York concert series Highlights in Jazz, and in 1991 his fellow musicians saluted him with a tribute at the JVC Festival.
And for the first time, he regularly released recordings, including "The 87 Years of Doc Cheatham" (Columbia) from 1993, which featured him with his working band. This year, Mr. Cheatham released an album, "Doc Cheatham and Nicholas Payton" (Verve), a set of astonishingly lyrical duets with a young trumpeter.
Mr. Cheatham is survived by his wife, Amanda, and a daughter, Alicia.
He told Mr. Balliett: "I'm almost the last of the line. I've talked to kids who come to hear us who don't even know who Louis Armstrong is. But they listen. 'How do you do that?' they'll ask. 'That's beautiful,' they'll say.
"When I'm gone, it'll be just about over, my kind of playing. It will be as if it hadn't existed at all, as if all of us hadn't worked so long and hard."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Doc Cheatham, a graceful improviser even past 90, at Iridium in May. (Jack Vartoogian) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS722410 DRINKING PLACES (ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES) (57%); SIC5813 DRINKING PLACES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (58%); BLUES ALLEY (57%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MUSIC; JAZZ DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); FESTIVALS (76%); 

PERSON: CHEATHAM, DOC; WATROUS, PETER

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997



50 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Industry Index In Unexpected May Rebound

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2

 BODY:
A survey of the nation's corporate buyers the officials who purchase everything from paper clips to trucks -- showed unexpected strength in manufacturing during May even as consumer spending began to slow.
The National Association of Purchasing Management said today that its overall index jumped to 57.1 last month, nearly 3 points above its April reading and the highest since November 1994. 
 "Growth is still strong in the second quarter," said James F. O'Sullivan, an economist at J. P. Morgan. New orders, he noted, were especially strong "so that tells you that inventories are not a problem."
Analysts have expected a sharp deceleration from the economy's breakneck growth pace of 5.8 percent in the first quarter, much of which reflected the production of goods that had not found immediate buyers.
Most statistics in recent weeks, including those on retail sales, have suggested that growth is slackening. The Federal Reserve decided two weeks ago against raising interest rates another notch, apparently convinced that the economy was slowing enough to keep inflation at bay.
But today's broad advance in the purchasing managers' survey, which also included evidence of slower deliveries from suppliers, prompted some reconsideration by economists.
"It is becoming apparent that April's general slowdown in U.S. economic activity was temporary, with May's indicators suggesting a rebound not only in the consumer sector but in manufacturing as well," said Dr. Sherry Cooper, chief economist at Nesbitt Burns Securities in Toronto.
The bond market was mixed today, with the yield on the 30-year bond down slightly to 6.90 percent, while stocks eased.
The Commerce Department reported that personal income and spending each edged up one-tenth of 1 percent in April, as expected, although the savings rate remained at 5.1 percent despite unusually heavy mid-April income tax payments.
New construction figures today showed a drop of 1 percent in April to an annual pace of $596.9 billion, with declines in both public and private-sector spending.
Although this decline was steeper than expected, analysts countered that activity was still high and that the department raised its estimates for both February and March, the latter now posting a small rise.
In rising to 57.1 from 54.2, the index of the nation's purchasing managers registered its 12th consecutive reading above 50 -- which indicates an expanding manufacturing sector -- and rose despite some harsh weather and continuing labor disruptions in the automotive industry.
The new-orders component, which carries the heaviest weighting, surged 6.3 points, to 64.2, its highest since July 1994. Supplier deliveries, in which increases mean longer times for orders to be filled, climbed 1.8 points, to 55.2, its highest since April 1995. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, is known to pay particular attention to vendor performance as an indicator of impending production bottlenecks that could presage faster inflation.
The purchasing managers' price gauge, however, moved down 1.2 points, to 48.4 in May, its second consecutive sub-50 reading and the lowest reading since November. Seven of every eight corporate shoppers reported paying prices that were unchanged or lower last month.
As for the Commerce Department's tally of incomes, the weak April results reflected various previously reported factors, including declines in hours worked and hourly earnings that more than offset a rise in employment. The rise of one-tenth of 1 percent followed an increase of six-tenth of 1 percent in March and was the skimpiest since October.
The rise in spending, the smallest since September, followed increases for February and March that were revised downward to three-tenths of 1 percent and two-tenths of 1 percent, respectively.
Construction in the private sector fell 1 percent, to $450.2 billion, in April while spending on schools, highways and other public works fell 2 percent, to $146.7 billion, the department said.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Personal Income" tracks total personal income, before taxes; "Construction Spending" tracks total construction spending. Figures for both are tracked at seasonally adjusted annual rates, from November 1995 through April 1997. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); PUBLIC WORKS; SAVINGS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); BONDS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); BOND MARKETS (69%); RETAIL SALES (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); INCOME TAX (63%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997



51 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The Gathering Storm

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
Now in one document, available with a phone call, are two revealing exposures of the failure of President Clinton's policy of putting trade above all other U.S. interests in China.
The first is a paragraph from the State Department's report about human rights in 1996. Despite pressures from inside and outside government, these annual reports remain in candor and courage a credit to America. 
 Representative Richard Gephardt of Missouri, Democratic leader in the House, included it in a devastating analysis of the variety of damages done to the U.S. by the Administration's trade-obsessed China policy.
In that one paragraph, the State Department report sums up what has happened to dissidents eight years after the Tiananmen massacre, two years after Mr. Clinton traded human rights in China and Tibet for the mirage of the China trade:
"All public dissent against the party and government was effectively silenced by intimidation, exile, the imposition of prison terms, administrative detention, or house arrest. No dissidents were known to be active at year's end. Even those released from prison were kept under tight surveillance and often prevented from taking employment or otherwise resuming a normal life."
The Gephardt dissection is part of a gathering storm against Mr. Clinton's China policy. In a speech to Detroit businessmen, Mr. Gephardt dealt straight on with the injuries it does to America's economy, and security.
The economic price of worshiping the China-trade idol includes a trade deficit with China now approaching $50 billion annually. Mr. Gephardt details the cost in American jobs of competing with China's "Stalinist" version of the free market -- complete with prison and slave labor and mandated survival-level wages. Now there's an increasing Chinese switchover from cheap toys to more profitable manufacture -- cheap high tech. China keeps costs minimal by blackmailing patents and factory plans out of Western companies -- part of the cost of doing business with Beijing.
Security: While raking in American money, China sells cruise missiles, a chemical plant and material for chemical weapons to Iran. China also produces an ICBM that Mr. Gephardt points out could threaten the Pacific Basin and the continental United States.
But throughout his speech, Mr. Gephardt presents human rights as not only a moral issue but a goal fundamental to American interests, attained time and again in the 20th century, from the fight against Hitler and the Soviet empire to the struggle against South African apartheid.
Naturally along comes the special Washingtonian political hypocrisy. Mr. Gephardt is accused of trying to get the Democratic Presidential nomination by emphasizing the difference between himself and the Clinton policies that Vice President Al Gore will have to carry out if he is chosen.
No! It cannot be true that a candidate tries to show the moral and policy differences between himself and a probable opponent!
What was Mr. Clinton doing in the 1992 campaign when he attacked President Bush's "coddling" of dictatorships and promised to link tariff and human rights? After election, Constant Heart threw linkage away -- the China business lobby just changed his mind.
That opened whole new vistas of cynicism for America. But if we now say we will not pay serious attention to any politician who dares reach to the Presidency we will be giving Mr. Clinton's vision of faithfulness lasting control over our own minds. Most of us do not long for that.
Mr. Gephardt's China speech and that State Department paragraph should be read by Americans who oppose the Clinton China policy, for ammunition, and Americans who support it, to test their beliefs. Phone the Gephardt office: 202-225-0100.
Whoever inherits or accepts Mr. Clinton's China policy better run scared. A national human rights movement is growing, partly because of increasing knowledge of persecution of Christians in China. It includes Representative Nancy Pelosi of San Francisco, a great longtime liberal human rights leader, and Gary Bauer, of the conservative Family Research Council. Mr. Bauer says what people like Representatives Pelosi and Gephardt so devoutly believe: "Cheap goods bought with blood cost too much."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); TIBET (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (78%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); TIBET (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (78%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); EXTORTION (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); ARRESTS (67%); HOUSE ARREST (67%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR) BILL CLINTON (91%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997



52 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Says May Sales Fell As Strike Crimped Output

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 2

 BODY:
The Chrysler Corporation became the first in the auto industry to fulfill Wall Street's prophesy that May sales results by the Big Three American auto makers would be weak, compared with the strong monthly sales levels of a year ago.
Chrysler said today that its May sales of cars and trucks fell to 204,654, down 16.6 percent from May 1996, when the company's sales were the highest ever. Sales of its Jeeps, pickup trucks and mini-vans fell 15.5 percent, crimped partly by a monthlong strike at a Detroit engine factory in April and May. Chrysler's car sales dropped 18.4 percent. 
 "The spring market is significantly softer than a year ago -- when we were setting all-time sales records in most categories -- and competition is fierce," James P. Holden, Chrysler's executive vice president for sales and marketing, said.
The weaker May sales follow anemic April sales, which contrasted with the exceptionally robust auto sales in the first quarter of this year and May 1996. The softer auto sales in May were also in line with recent signs that the overall economy has slowed since early this year.
"You had a bang-up first quarter," David B. Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities, said. Chrysler's results conformed to Wall Street's expectation that May sales would be soft across the auto industry. The sales slowdown is partly because of the recent weakness in used-car prices combined with high consumer debt levels, Mr. Healy said.
Two other auto makers reporting sales today posted gains. Subaru of America, a unit of Fuji Heavy Industries, said its sales rose two-tenths of a percent, to 9,630 in May, compared with the corresponding period a year ago. Volvo A.B.'s sales rose 5.2 percent, to 8,614.
Wall Street analysts had been expecting weak sales results for May, particularly for the Big Three. The General Motors Corporation, the Toyota Motor Corporation and the Honda Motor Company are scheduled to report their May sales results Tuesday. G.M.'s sales are expected to be down 9 percent from the corresponding period a year ago, and some analysts expect foreign auto makers taken together to report that their sales fell 2 percent.
The Ford Motor Company is due to report its May results Wednesday, and analysts expect its sales will slip 5 percent from a year ago.
The weak sales are anticipated despite auto makers' discounts. Ford, for instance, has offered heavily discounted financing on its Taurus midsized sedan and Escort compact car. And sales of Chrysler's mini-vans fell 6.2 percent in May, compared with the year-earlier period, despite the offer of rebates of $750 to $1,000.
Labor unrest has also hurt May sales. Chrysler said its poor showing was partly a result of a monthlong strike that shut factories producing some of its most popular Jeeps and pickup trucks. Workers at a G.M. pickup factory in Pontiac, Mich., have been on strike since April 22, fighting G.M.'s efforts to reduce jobs through attrition across the country. And G.M. has only just settled a strike in Oklahoma City that has slowed the introduction of the redesigned Chevrolet Malibu and Oldsmobile Cutlass sedans.
Separately, G.M. announced today that it would recall about 85,000 1997-model Buicks and Cadillacs to replace electronic brake controls. Models recalled include the Buick Park Avenue and Park Avenue Ultra along with about half of all 1997 Cadillac sold through April. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7270 (TSE) (90%); FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); VOLV.B (STO) (84%); VOLV.A (STO) (84%); HMC (NYSE) (81%); 7267 (TSE) (81%); TYT (LSE) (81%); TM (NYSE) (81%); 7203 (TSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (84%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP; SUBARU OF AMERICA INC; VOLVO AB; GENERAL MOTORS CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (90%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); AB VOLVO (84%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (81%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (81%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP; SUBARU OF AMERICA INC; VOLVO AB; GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; LABOR; STRIKES; PRODUCTION; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; BRAKES ; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; VANS SALES FIGURES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MINIVANS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SEDANS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (77%); STRIKES (61%); PRODUCT RECALLS (59%); 

PERSON: ;MEREDITH, ROBYN

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997



53 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices End Mixed on Rate Concerns

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed yesterday, after a strong manufacturing report raised the specter that the Federal Reserve might again increase interest rates. The report offset good demand from European investors who were looking for a safe haven after a Socialist-led coalition won French elections.
The National Association of Purchasing Management index in May rose to an unexpectedly strong 57.1 from 54.2 in April. Traders said that the losses yesterday were limited since the market is technically in good shape. They added that early gains had been made on data indicating a weakening in personal spending and income. 
 The 30-year bond rose 4/32 to a price of 96 19/32, pushing its yield down slightly to 6.90 percent, from 6.91 percent on Friday.
Dr. Sherry Cooper, chief economist at Nesbitt Burns Securities, said that the purchasing report for May underscored broad-based strength in manufacturing. A strong economy is often accompanied by inflation, which erodes the value of long-term securities like bonds.
The purchasing index hit its highest level since November 1994, and the underlying components point to further strength in the months ahead, Dr. Cooper said.
Anthony Chan, vice president and chief economist at the Banc One Investment Advisers Corporation in Columbus, Ohio, said, "With orders moving up sharply and the supplier delivery component also putting in a strong performance, it is hard to continue touting the story of a collapsing economy."
"Over all, many investors began to worry that the robust orders component in the N.A.P.M. may translate into higher production levels and faster employment growth," he said. "The big fear is that the slowdown in consumption during the second quarter may only be a pause, rather than a signal of continued moderate growth in the quarters ahead."
On the supply side of the Government securities market yesterday, the Treasury auctioned $30 billion of 14-day cash management bills, as well as holding the regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills, which has been totaling about $15 billion a week.
Analysts called the outcome of the weekly bill auction average to mediocre, with the three-month bill priced to produce an average rate of 4.93 percent, down from 5.03 percent last week, and the six-month bill rate an average of 5.22 percent, down from 5.26 percent.
For now the supply of bills remains tight, in the face of strong demand. Also helping the short end of the market was speculation that there would be a bill pass by the Fed, but sellers used the up ticks in the market as selling opportunities. A bill pass is when the Fed enters the market to buy various maturity bills to add reserves permanently to the banking system; the Fed never discusses a pass until it finishes one.
A rally in the dollar yesterday also proved a key for bonds, since a strong dollar makes dollar-denominated investments like Treasury securities more attractive to foreign investors. because of the potential gains from currency exchange.
"It was a decidedly quiet day which probably exaggerated any positive or negative spin you could put on Monday's action," said David Ader, regional director of fixed income at Technical Data in Boston. "With that major caveat in mind, you still come away impressed with the price action. The market responded well to strong N.A.P.M. numbers. This is the first read on the May data, and the market is closing higher in spite of it."
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of new three-month and six-month bills, as well as of the 14-day cash management bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.754	97.361	Discounted Rate	4.93%	5.22%	Coupon Yield	5.06%	5.44%	High Price	98.761	97.366	Discounted Rate	4.90%	5.21%	Coupon Yield	5.03%	5.43%	Low Price	98.751	97.361	Discounted Rate	4.94%	5.22%	Coupon Yield	5.07%	5.44%	Accepted at low price	42%	94%	Total applied for	$34,014,112	$38,769,126	Accepted	$7,525,476	$7,537,872	Noncompetitive	$1,323,265	$1,162,156	
 
Both issues are dated June 5, 1997. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 4, 1997, and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 4, 1997.
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 99.796
Discounted Rate . . . 5.25%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.33%
High Price . . . 99.797
Discounted Rate . . . 5.28%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.36%
Low Price . . . 99.795
Discounted Rate . . . 5.23%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.30%
Accepted at low price . . . 69%
Total applied for . . . $64,243,000
Accepted . . . $30,022,000
Noncompetitive . . . 0
 
The 14-day cash management bills mature June 17, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since February. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); US DOLLAR (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997



54 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Study Ranks Software as No. 3 Industry

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The computer software business has risen rapidly to become America's third-largest manufacturing industry, paying wages twice the national average, according to a new study.
The study provides the most detailed portrait to date of the jobs and wealth generated by the fast-growing software business. The industry-sponsored research will be presented in Washington tomorrow by a group of computer executives led by Bill Gates of Microsoft and Andrew Grove of Intel. 
 The study is partly a lobbying tool. It is intended to emphasize the rising importance of the software industry at a time when Congress is considering legislation on a number of issues that affect the business, like export curbs on data-scrambling software and new laws to protect intellectual property.
After presenting the study at a news conference, the computer executives have scheduled meetings on Capitol Hill and at the White House.
"We see the study as a framework for saying to leaders in Washington that software is a major engine of the modern economy," said Robert Holleyman, president of the Business Software Alliance, a trade group that sponsored the research. "And as we move to a new generation of software -- software used and distributed on the Internet -- it is essential to have policies that encourage innovation and protect intellectual property."
The study, conducted by Nathan Associates, an economic consulting firm in Arlington, Va., found that the American software industry generated revenues of $102.8 billion last year. Since 1990, the software industry has grown at a rate of 12.5 percent annually, nearly 2.5 times faster than the economy as a whole.
The computer industry is often regarded as a textbook example of the rising "wage gap" -- an increasing difference between the high incomes enjoyed by skilled workers in fields like software and the far lower incomes of other workers.
That view is confirmed by the new study. The 619,400 Americans employed in the software industry last year made an average of $57,300, or more than twice the national average of $27,900.
Workers in the packaged software business, used in personal computers, did even better. They averaged $64,500. "The average wages are phenomenal," said Robert Damuth, director of policy studies for Nathan Associates. "The incomes are extraordinary because software is a knowledge-intensive industry that is thriving, and workers are getting compensated for their skills."
Calculating the size and employment is tricky in most industries, but especially so in high-technology fields. The industry classifications used in Government statistics were set long ago. Those definitions have not been revised to keep up with the changes in fast-paced industries. Software, for example, has been defined as a service for years, but when new classifications are adopted in 2000 it will be defined as a manufacturing industry.
Still, Mr. Damuth said his firm tried to be reasonably conservative in its definition of the software industry. It included only three of nine possible categories in the broad grouping of Government industry statistics called "computer programming, data processing and other computer services."
In comparing software with other manufacturing industries, Nathan Associates employed a value-added measure, which excludes an industry's purchase of other goods used in production. The value-added calculation more accurately measures an industry's contribution to the economy rather than counting the production of its suppliers as its own.
On the value-added basis, software ranked third after automobiles and electronics. In a 1995 study, software ranked fifth, behind the aircraft and pharmaceutical industry as well as autos and electronics. The study also estimated the "ripple effect" of the software industry, saying that software was responsible for 1,445,600 jobs in other industries. The total direct and indirect employment of 2,065,000 million people last year, the software study projected, will reach 3,435,000 million by 2005 -- or nearly 3 percent of American workers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; INTEL CORP INTEL CORP (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; INTEL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; COPYRIGHTS ; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES COMPUTER SOFTWARE (95%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); RANKINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); EXPORT CONTROLS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (52%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; GATES, BILL; GROVE, ANDREW BILL GATES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997



55 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Dow Off 41.64; Broader Stock Indexes Up

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks ended mixed yesterday, as the shares of some overlooked smaller companies rose at the expense of larger blue-chip issues.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 41.64 points to 7,289.40. Beyond the blue-chip market, however, gainers outpaced losers by a margin of 1,543 to 1,002 on volume of 433.2 million on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 "We're continuing to see some rotation out of big stocks and into small stocks," said Alan Ackerman, market strategist at Fahnestock & Company. "The Dow has made a strong move over the last couple of weeks, and it looks like some people are cashing in now. There are a lot of economic numbers ahead."
Broader market measures also rose. The Russell 2000 index of small stocks added 2.76 points, to 383.52; the American Stock Exchange index edged up 1.79, to 607.17, and the Nasdaq composite index, which is heavy in technology issues, added 4.47, to 1,404.79.
Analysts said that economic data, including the monthly employment report due on Friday, would probably dampen demand for blue-chip stocks in the next few days.
Even after yesterday's decline, the Dow industrials stand nearly 900 points higher than on April 11. In contrast, smaller stocks have only recently begun to shake off a malaise that had lasted more than a year.
Heightening investors' caution was the release of the week's first important economic indicator, the National Association of Purchasing Management index.
The index, a gauge of manufacturing activity compiled by purchasers for about 300 major corporations, rose to 57.1 in May, eclipsing economists' forecasts of a 53.9 reading, as well as April's level of 54.2. A reading above 50 percent signals that manufacturing is growing while one below that level points to contraction. Traders fear that strong growth could lead the Federal Reserve to again raise interest rates.
Analysts said some of the strength in stocks yesterday appeared to be linked to special factors, like the end of a strike at a Chrysler motor plant. But even after such factors, analysts said the index hinted that the forthcoming jobs report would be a strong one. "Employment really drives that number a lot," said Robert Froehlich, chief investment strategist at Kemper Funds. "Manufacturing can only be strong if employment is strong."
Mr. Froehlich said a muted response to the report in the bond market might have reflected strong global demand for American assets, particularly from Europe, where currency issues and political uncertainties have mounted.
"It's going to be months before we figure out the impact of the elections in France and Great Britain," he said. "In the interim, a lot of foreign money is coming into this market as a hiding place, so to speak."
Among Dow industrial index components, Procter & Gamble fell 4 1/4, to 133 5/8, after Smith Barney downgraded the shares to outperform from buy. P.& G., up 56 percent this year, is the most expensive and therefore the most heavily weighted stock in the Dow average. Pepsico rose 1, to 37 3/4, after the company said it would reorganize its North American beverage business, creating a separate unit for its bottling operations.
Tobacco stocks were the market's biggest laggards, as concern over the industry's legal problems spread. The Philip Morris Companies, which sell Marlboro cigarettes, fell 1 1/4, to 42 3/4; RJR Nabisco Holdings, the maker of Camel cigarettes, fell 5/8, to 31 3/4, and UST Inc., which sells Copenhagen tobacco products, slid 5/8, to 27 7/8.
In Nasdaq trading, G & K Services Inc. fell 2, to 30 3/4, after the company said it would acquire the uniform-rental business of National Linen Service for about $287 million. National Service Industries, parent of National Linen, slipped 5/8, to 43 1/4, on the Big Board.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.92, to 846.36.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.24, to 441.54. The average price per share fell 2 cents.
The Wilshire Associates Equity Index, the market value of Big Board, American and Nasdaq issues commonly known as the Wilshire 5000, finished at 8,044.46, up 5.96 or seven-hundredths of 1 percent.

ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%); 

COMPANY: FAHNESTOCK & CO INC (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; RUSSELL 2000 STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BONDS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997



56 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Average Falls 41.64, But Smaller Stocks Climb
Stocks ended mixed, as the shares of some overlooked smaller companies rose at the expense of larger blue-chip issues. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 41.64 points to 7,289.40, with one component, Procter & Gamble, falling 4 1/4, to 133 5/8, after Smith Barney downgraded the shares.
But gainers outpaced losers by 1,543 to 1,002 on the New York Stock Exchange, and several broader market measures rose, despite investor caution. The Nasdaq composite index added 4.47 points, to 1,404.79. [Page D10.] 

Treasury securities' prices were also mixed, after a strong manufacturing report raised fears that the Fed might push up interest rates again. The yield on the 30-year bond edged down to 6.90 percent. [D20.]
 
Beverage Battles At McDonald's
The beverage wars among the nation's top three soft-drink producers heated up on two fronts. Pepsico said that it would create a division for its $6.14 billion company-owned bottling operations. Separately, Coca-Cola, the industry leader, confirmed that it was trying to banish Dr Pepper/Seven Up, the nation's third-largest beverage company, from thousands of McDonald's restaurants. [D2.]
 
Chrysler Sales Fell in May
Sales of cars and truck made by Chrysler fell 16.6 percent in May compared with May 1996. The other auto makers are expected to report similar declines when they announce their results today and later this week. [D6.]
 
Seagate Sees Faltering Earnings
Seagate Technology said that its quarterly results would be below analysts' expectations of $1.06 a share because of weak demand for its computer disk drives. [D8.]
 
Enron Settles With Phillips
Enron said that it would pay $440 million to settle litigation with Phillips Petroleum over an agreement to buy high-priced natural gas from a North Sea field and would take an after-tax charge of $450 million. [D6.]
 
Software Industry Grows Rapidly
The software business has risen by a rapid 12.5 percent a year to become America's third-largest manufacturing industry, according to an industry-sponsored study. [D2.]
 
Smith Barney Dismisses Executive
Smith Barney said it had dismissed Robert B. Maloney, its New England regional director, whose role in raising campaign contributions for his brother, Representative James H. Maloney, Democrat of Connecticut, is under investigation by Federal authorities. [D10.]
 
Czech Republic Stumbles
Vaclav Klaus, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, has been forced to admit that he made mistakes in taking that country from Communism to capitalism. Last week he froze wages and cut Government spending, hoping to bolster the Czech crown, which fell 10 percent after the central bank allowed it to float in value. [D4.]
 
Judge Limits 'Pain and Suffering'
Seeking to place definable limits on juries' awards for "pain and suffering" in civil cases, a Federal judge in Brooklyn issued statistical guidelines as part of his judgment in three cases involving women who sustained arm, wrist and hand injuries while using computer keyboards made by Digital Equipment. [D4.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,289.40, down 41.64
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.90%, down 0.01
The Dollar -- 116.58 yen, up 0.36
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Leading Indicators
 April figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: No Change

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (83%); STX (NASDAQ) (82%); COP (NYSE) (81%); PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (55%); PEP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (83%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (81%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH SEA (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (67%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (83%); SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC (82%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (81%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); COCA-COLA CO (55%); PEPSICO INC (55%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH SEA (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (92%); BEVERAGE MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (88%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); NATURAL GAS (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); SOFT DRINK MFG (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (74%); FAST FOOD (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (70%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (64%); LITIGATION (62%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: CAROLYN MALONEY (55%); VACLAV KLAUS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997



57 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Gains as Traders Bet Euro Will Be Weakened

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, June 2

 BODY:
Faced with a Socialist victory in France and an unusual domestic spat between the German Government and the central bank, currency traders headed for safe harbors today. They quickly bought up American dollars and British pounds while pushing down the value of both the French franc and the German mark.
Analysts said today's activity reflected a sentiment that Europe's two biggest economies were moving away from strict fiscal and monetary austerity and that the proposed single European currency, the euro, would be weaker than the rock-hard currency akin to the German mark that European leaders have promised. 
 Until the political landscape settles down, currency traders are avoiding holding the franc and the mark and are betting that the dollar and the pound will strengthen as safe currencies of choice for now.
In currency trading in New York today, the dollar settled at 1.7300 marks, up sharply from 1.7063 marks on Friday, and at 5.8320 French francs, up from 5.7595 francs. The British pound fell to $1.6359 from $1.6410. The dollar was also higher against the Japanese yen, rising to 116.58 yen from 116.22 yen
Late today, there was the first sign of hope that one battle might soon end. Germany's Finance Minister, Theo Waigel, signaled that the Government might be willing to back down on its hotly contested plan to reduce its budget deficit this year with a bookkeeping maneuver to revalue the central bank's gold reserves. The plan would inject some of the gain into the Government treasury and bring Germany's deficit closer to the strict criteria called for in the plan for a single currency.
Last week, when the central bank objected to the timing of the plan, the German Government said it would go ahead anyway. The Bundesbank wants to revalue its gold hoard but not before May 1998 when the European Union will have decided which countries will initially participate in the single currency. Doing it sooner, the bank declared, threatens its independence and weakens the new currency.
But late today Mr. Waigel said, "We will discuss this with the Bundesbank," adding, "We will try to do this in mutual agreement." He did not make clear what he had in mind but if he delayed the plan by a year, as the central bank prefers, Germany's budget deficit would exceed the criteria set out for the creation of the euro and would probably undermine its strength.
Regardless, most analysts say the credibility of the euro has taken a serious blow.
"What we have to conclude is that European Monetary Union will get off the ground, but as a much weaker currency," said J. Paul Horne, an economist for Smith Barney in Paris. "The two principal actors seem to be saying, 'Let's get to the altar in the easiest way.' "
In theory, a weaker euro would hurt the United States by making American-made goods more expensive. Conversely, a strong dollar and a weak euro would make European-made goods less costly.
European stock markets reacted calmly to the Socialist victory over the conservative coalition of President Jacques Chirac of France. On the Paris Bourse, blue-chip stocks in the CAC-40 index initially plunged by nearly 3 percent but then regained their value and ended the day slightly above Friday's close. The German market closed up 1.63 percent; the London stock exchange ended down 1.27 percent.
The results puzzled some market analysts, particularly because the Socialist victory in France should in theory spell bad news for French business. But analysts said the stock market's sanguine reaction was partly because investors had furiously sold off French stocks through much of last week, after the first round of elections on May 25 signaled that Mr. Chirac's Government was in deep trouble.
Beyond that, they said, the movements in both markets reflected a general notion of less strict economies. More relaxed economic policies could easily add some zip to the depressing level of economic activity in both countries, but they could also lead to a much weaker and less credible euro, which is scheduled to make its debut in 1999.
The French Socialist leader who was named Prime Minister today, Lionel Jospin, has adamantly insisted that countries should not be forced to meet the strict numerical targets for deficits, debt levels and inflation that now determine who will and will not be a part of the new euro. In a deep break with German views, moreover, he has called for opening the euro to countries like Italy that fall well short of the monetary union's strict criteria.
The French shift and Germany's new attempts to fudge its own deficit problems through bookkeeping maneuvers have both increased the chances that the new monetary union will have a wider but weaker membership.
"We have been predicting for some time that the European Monetary Union would be relatively wide, and both these events push things in the same direction," said Kermit L. Schoenholtz, global economist for Salomon Brothers in London. "It should not be surprising if the euro begins somewhat weaker" than politicians have hoped, he added.
Sylvain Hefes, managing director for Goldman, Sachs & Company in Paris, said France's leftist Government would bring less change than expected because the Government had very little money to work with.
"The Socialists asked for a complete audit of public finances today, and what they are going to find is that they have almost no maneuvering room," Mr. Hefes said. "They will not be in a position to do a lot of things."
That now leaves Europe's political leaders, particularly in Germany, with a painful decision. Should they plunge ahead with the euro, even if it would be significantly weaker than the vaunted German mark or even the French franc? Or should they delay the start of the euro until countries have their economies in better order?
Most financial and political experts believe that European leaders have staked so much of their political careers on the euro that they have long since passed the point of no return. The rise in the dollar, they said, signals a belief that the euro will be started but will be weaker. If investors believe the euro will be delayed or scrapped entirely, that generally sends the German mark up in value because investors would be no longer be expecting the mark's replacement by a weaker currency.
Nevertheless, tensions between France and Germany over the euro are likely to increase. Even under the conservative coalition, France repeatedly battled against Germany's seemingly ironclad determination to impose firm and unchangeable numerical fiscal requirements on countries that would participate in the euro. They have also carried on a running battle over whether political leaders should retain some oversight over the new European central bank -- a French idea that is anathema to the Germans.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the change in value of the British pound, the German mark, and the French franc against the dollar, since May 23, the last trading day before the French legislative elections. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK ; EUROPEAN UNION SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK ; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; FRANCE; GERMANY; ; GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; GOLD; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CURRENCIES (96%); EURO (91%); BRITISH POUND (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); POLITICS (70%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997



58 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Liberal Party and Chretien Win Canadian Majority
Prime Minister Jean Chretien and his Liberal Party retained a slim parliamentary majority in Canadian elections, preliminary results indicated. In his home town of Shawinigan, Mr. Chretien clung to a slim lead over his separatist opponent. A1
 
Socialist Is French Premier
Conservative President Jacques Chirac of France appointed the Socialist leader, Lionel Jospin, Prime Minister. Mr. Jospin will take office today, ushering in France's third period of "cohabitation," or divided government, in 11 years. A8
 
The German Government insisted that the Socialist victory in France's parliamentary elections would not dilute Chancellor Helmut Kohl's commitment to strict rules and a rigid timetable for the introduction of a single European currency. A8
 
Blair Criticizes Welfare State
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain visited a decaying public housing project in London and denounced the culture of government dependency that he claimed was responsible for long-term unemployment. Mr. Blair called for "radical" welfare reform, although he stopped short of proposing that single parents find jobs or lose their benefits. A3
 
Expressing regret about Britain's role in the potato famine that devastated Ireland 150 years ago, Mr. Blair criticized the Government in London for "standing by" while a crop failure led to one million people dying of starvation in what was then part of the richest and most powerful nation in the world. A3
 
Fighting in Sierra Leone
Ships, planes and troops from Nigeria and other West African nations sought to subdue a military coup in Sierra Leone, where they encountered heavy resistance. Nigerian soldiers were reportedly pinned in several places, including the main international hotel in Freetown. As a warship shelled the headquarter of the rebellious soldiers and their allies, the Revolutionary United Front, Nigerian soldiers said they had seized an airfield. A10
 
Palestinian Threats Cited
Israeli security forces have information that 16 Palestinian dealers involved in selling land to Jews have been targeted for death, including three land dealers killed over the past month, an Israeli newspaper reported. The Palestinian Authority has denied responsibility for the murders, but its leaders have not denounced an edict declaring that Arabs convicted of selling land to Jews would be sentenced to death. A5
 
U.N. Warned Over Reforms
Carol Bellamy, the executive director of Unicef, publicly warned that proposed reforms at the United Nations could strip the agency of its independent voice for children around the world. As part of a general restructuring of the United Nations, Unicef would be folded into a group dealing with development, while other duties would be subsumed by a separate emergency relief team. A11
 
NATIONAL A12-20
 
McVeigh Is Convicted In Oklahoma Bomb Case
Timothy J. McVeigh was convicted of bombing the Oklahoma City Federal Building, the worst terrorist act in the United States. Later this week there will be a penalty phase of the trial at which the same jury will decide whether Mr. McVeigh will be executed or serve life in prison. He was found guilty of 11 counts of conspiracy and murder, with jurors concluding that he, Terry L. Nichols, an Army friend, and others unknown used a truck bomb to destroy the building on April 19, 1995, killing 168 people and injuring hundreds more. A1
 
After the verdict was announced, survivors of the blast and families of victims cheered and sobbed with relief at the lot where a building once stood. A1
 
The Government may have more trouble in its prosecution of Mr. Nichols. Some witnesses that could tie him to parts of the conspiracy appear to be less credible than those that were presented in Mr. McVeigh's trial. A19
 
Departure After Adultery
The commanding general of the Aberdeen Proving Ground will retire after acknowledging that he committed adultery. Several male drill sergeants at the base in Maryland have been charged with or convicted of sexually harassing and assaulting female recruits. A tip led to an investigation of the commander, Maj. Gen. John E. Longhouser. A12
 
Action on Herbal Stimulant
The Food and Drug Administration plans to regulate the use of ephedrine, an herbal stimulant used for body building and weight loss that has been blamed for 20 to 30 deaths. The agency wants to reduce the amount of ephedrine in supplements, restrict its marketing and require warning labels. A14
 
Reporter Still Causes Anger
A California journalism association today will consider a request by a member that it revoke an award given to Gary Webb, the reporter for The San Jose Mercury News whose articles linked the C.I.A. to drug dealing in Los Angeles by supporters of the Nicaraguan contras. The revocation is not consider likely, but the request shows the anger still aroused by Mr. Webb and the articles, which his own paper has admitted were flawed. A12
 
30 Hurt at Water Slide
At least 30 people were injured, 10 critically, when an amusement park water slide in Concord, Calif., collapsed after a group of teen-agers on a graduation outing ignored a lifeguard's warning and went down the slide together. Some fell as far as 75 feet. A12
 
Justices to Rule on Chases
The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether someone injured from a high-speed chase must show that the police officer involved acted with "reckless disregard" for public safety to sue successfully, or whether the plaintiff must meet the higher standard of showing that the police behavior "shocked the conscience." A14
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Betty Shabazz's Grandson Arraigned in Attack on Her
Malcolm Shabazz, the 12-year-old grandson of Malcolm X, was arraigned in Family Court in Yonkers, charged with setting a fire that left his grandmother clinging to life. The boy had apparently been badly neglected by his mother and had been institutionalized in February after trashing the apartment he shared with her in Texas, according to police records and friends who described the boy's troubled life. A1
 
Inquiry on Art Auctions
Prominent Manhattan art dealers said they believed Federal officials were investigating the possibility of collusion and price fixing among art dealers buying at auctions. Investigators have subpoenaed truckloads of financial documents from more than a dozen dealers and from Sotheby's and Christie's, the world's largest auction houses, in what appears to be a wide-ranging antitrust investigation. It has long been rumored in the art world that some dealers try to buy on the cheap, by forming rings of dealers who agree to refrain from bidding against one other at auctions. A1
 
Mayor Speaks for Rent Law
Mayor Giuliani went to Albany and called on Governor Pataki to abandon his proposal to phase out rent regulations. Mr. Giuliani said it was up to the Governor to resolve the dispute in the Legislature over the rent laws, which expire in less than two weeks. B1
 
New Jersey Primary Today
The Democratic candidates for Governor of New Jersey ended their last day of campaigning before today's primary. A change in state election laws has allowed county party organizations, for the first time in more than 15 years, to endorse gubernatorial candidates and place them on the ballot next to familiar local candidates. Many votes are expected to vote for candidates simply because their names are next to a popular candidate for a local office. B4
 
Purse Snatcher Is Killed
A man who had snatched purses from three women in Brooklyn died after a confrontation with relatives of one victim, the police said. The cause of his death had not been determined. The police had not filed any charges against the relatives. B3
 
 BUSINESS DAY D1-22
 
A Shift by Money Traders
Currency traders bought up American dollars and British pounds while pushing down the value of both the French franc and German mark. Analysts said the trading reflects the conviction, in the face of a Socialist victory in France and budgetary disputes in Germany, that the proposed single European currency, the euro, will not be weaker the currency that European leaders have promised. D1
 
Companies' Buying Grows
The index of corporate purchasing rose to its highest level since November 1994. The report indicates that the economy may be growing more strongly than had been believed. Most statistics published in recent weeks, including those on retail sales, have suggested that growth slackening. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
SPORTS B8-13
 
Chang Ousted in French Open
Sergei Bruguera defeated Michael Chang, leaving no American in the quarterfinals of the French Open for the first time since 1969. B9
 
SCIENCE TIMES C1-10
 
ARTS C11-17
 
OBITUARIES D22-23
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: The McVeigh jury speaks, France rebels against austerity, threatening Paula Jones, the Albright idiom.
 
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Russell Baker.
 
Chronicle B18
 
Chess C5

CORRECTION-DATE: June 04, 1997, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article and an entry in the News Summary yesterday about Malcolm Shabazz, the 12-year-old grandson of Malcolm X who is accused of having set the fire that critically injured the boy's grandmother, referred incorrectly to a court hearing in the case on Monday. It was a detention hearing, to determine whether the boy would remain in custody; technically, there are no arraignments in Family Court. The summary also misstated the status of the hearing. It was adjourned until yesterday; it was not completed on Monday.
In addition, articles yesterday and on Monday misstated the date of Malcolm X's assassination. It was Feb. 21, 1965, not May 21.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); FRANCE (94%); NIGERIA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (91%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); FRANCE (94%); NIGERIA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (91%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ARMED FORCES (86%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); COUPS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PARENTS (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); POTATO FARMING (71%); STARVATION (71%); FAMINE (71%); BOMBINGS (69%); AIRPORTS (69%); MILITARY VESSELS (69%); NAVAL VESSELS (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (67%); SENTENCING (65%); TERRORISM (61%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); MURDER (50%); 

PERSON: JEAN CHRETIEN (90%); TONY BLAIR (79%); JACQUES CHIRAC (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



59 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off on Eased Concern About Credibility of the Euro

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar ended mostly lower yesterday on eased concerns about the credibility of Europe's single currency and hints from Finance Minister Hiroshi Mitsuzuka of Japan that interest rates there would rise soon.
A surge in the Japanese stock market to its highest level this year and comments by a Federal Reserve policy maker suggesting the United States economy is slowing also contributed to the dollar's weakness. 
 But the currency's movement was confined to narrow ranges in the absence of significant news, and traders said dealings were light ahead of the Friday report on May unemployment. That data could provide clues on whether the Fed will raise interest rates at its policy-making meeting on July 1 and 2.
"I think we're really on hold until we see the unemployment figures," said Michael Malpede, senior foreign-exchange analyst at the Refco Group of Chicago.
In New York, the dollar settled at 1.7275 marks, down from its nearly four-week high of 1.7300 on Monday when apprehension about the prospect of a weak single currency in Europe helped the dollar. The dollar cost 116.03 yen, down from 116.58. The pound cost $1.6351, down from $1.6359.
Traders said the main reason for eased concern about Europe's monetary union was the Bundesbank's apparent victory in a dispute with the German Government over revaluing Germany's gold reserves. The Government wanted to reappraise the reserves this year using current prices to satisfy the strict fiscal criteria to participate in the single currency, called the euro. The Bundesbank opposed the plan on the ground it was an accounting gimmick that would undermine the euro.
Finance Minister Theo Waigel said late yesterday that he had modified plans for the revaluation to satisfy Bundesbank concerns. Currency traders interpreted his announcement as a capitulation by the German Government on the plans.
Earlier in Asian dealings, the dollar fell slightly after Mr. Mitsuzuka told the Japanese Parliament that citizens suffering from Japan's record-low interest rates should be patient and that "a little bit more endurance is needed." His remarks were interpreted as a possible sign that rates could rise soon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION REFCO GROUP LTD LLC (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; JAPAN; EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES CURRENCIES (93%); EURO (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); 

PERSON: MITSUZUKA, HIROSHI (MIN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



60 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
Latest Front For Veterans Is Rent War

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

 BODY:
"ONE thing worries me," reads an inscription carved into the glass blocks of the Vietnam Memorial in lower Manhattan. "Will people believe me? Will they want to hear about it, or will they want to forget the whole thing ever happened?"
Forgetting has not been easy for some veterans who gathered there recently. Many of them served in Vietnam and returned stateside to face a new front as they looked for a job and a place to live. Some are still looking. Kelvin Murry, a lanky Air Force veteran with a deep voice and a calm manner, has lived in a veterans' residence in Harlem since 1992. Home is a 14-by-16-foot cinder block room, little more than a glorified shelter to him. 
 "It's transitional housing," said Mr. Murry, an unemployed steamfitter who still wears his hard hat out of habit and hope. "That's what I'm trying to make it."
With the future of rent regulation uncertain, Mr. Murry worries that he may never be able to afford a real apartment if the current laws are scrapped. While the policy debate is filled with martial metaphors about battle lines and declarations of war against tenants, landlords and politicians, it rings hollow to those who saw combat in the bush and not in the legislature.
Does anyone remember, Ed Daniels asked, that one reason for the extension of rent regulations in the 1940's was to help the thousands of men returning from the war? Is anything owed to their successors?
"You're getting rid of the one thing that allows a vet to be stable," said Mr. Daniels, who served in Southeast Asia with the Air Force. "They believe since the cold war is over there will be no more wars. They don't understand that we sacrificed so they can have what they have."
IN recent weeks, Lee Covino has been trying to tell that to the lawmakers who will decide the future of rent regulations. Mr. Covino is an Army veteran who was spared combat duty in Vietnam when he was called home after his father suffered a massive stroke. Out of guilt and duty, he has been trying to help those who served.
The country may no longer be fighting, but the peacetime closings of military bases will result in more veterans looking to find a place in the civilian world. Mr. Covino said their service should have earned them consideration and protection. In turn, the veterans could use their skills to keep apartment buildings clean and safe.
"You're going from where the government gives you clothing, food and housing and into a whole other fishbowl," he said. "The city or the state should address the veterans. These folks have something to do with us being here and being free. That goes back to World War II and us not goose-stepping."
Jay Russell Outlaw remembered leaving the Army and returning to Harlem in 1946, unable to find an apartment. He settled into a succession of rooms he rented in other people's homes until his brother gave him his apartment after he moved to a housing project.
Mr. Outlaw now lives on 135th Street and Broadway, a neighborhood that he likes for its easy access to subways, buses and the highway. He has noticed a lot of digging in the streets in recent years, with work crews replacing water mains and electrical lines. With the talk of doing away with rent laws, he wonders if it all wasn't part of a larger plan for the neighborhood.
"All that's missing is good housing," he said. "They'll get rid of us and put in high-rises. They won't tell you you can't live here. The price alone will tell you. We'll end up living in the boondocks."
OR maybe on the street, which is where Mr. Murry landed 10 years ago after losing his job and apartment. For a while, subway cars and public beaches offered meager comfort. He spent six years in a shelter before moving to the veterans' residence.
On a sunny day, he walked around the memorial commemorating the war he will never forget. Bouquets of dried flowers, slender stems topped by tissuelike tufts of color, lay on a ledge near rosaries and religious pictures taped to the memorial's glass blocks.
Soon, Mr. Murry was surrounded by a group of schoolchildren visiting from Public School 32 in the Bronx. Someone had told them he had been in the war in the early 70's, and they eagerly asked him questions. One of them, Anthony Jenkins, even asked for his autograph.
"He was in the service," Anthony said. "He could have died. But he didn't. He's a survivor."
With some unexpected practice, Mr. Murry now waits to sign a lease.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; VIETNAM WAR; VETERANS; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION VETERANS (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); WORLD WAR II (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); ARMIES (77%); MILITARY BASES (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); COLD WAR (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



61 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Leading Indicators Fall; Economists Yawn

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
The most widely followed index for predicting the economy posted its first decline in 15 months during April as 6 of 10 components moved lower, the Conference Board reported today.
Economists largely dismissed the decline of one-tenth of 1 percent in the index of leading indicators as a temporary statistical blip. 
 The two biggest drags, higher claims for jobless benefits and lower stock prices, have both reversed course since April and the index, specialists said, should quickly rebound.
"We would be looking for a higher reading next time," said Eric Green, economist at Paribas Capital Markets in New York.
The leading, or predictive, index is intended to signal turning points in the economy but its compilers have long insisted this requires that changes be significant in size, duration and scope, conditions that have not yet been met. Five consecutive negative months at the beginning of 1995 were not followed by recession.
Analysts also criticize the index for providing little new information since most of its separate components had already been published. "It's like calculating the grade point average for somebody who already knows all their individual grades," said Brian M. Jones, economist at Salomon Brothers.
The index has shown little vigor, with only two advances of more than two-tenths of 1 percent since February 1996, the month following what had been its most recent decline. Some analysts called this evidence of the hoped-for deceleration of the economy that could make it unnecessary for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates.
Companion indexes published by the Conference Board, a business-backed research organization, showed coincident and lagging indicators up one-tenth of 1 percent and two-tenths of 1 percent, respectively, in April.
Except for higher first-time claims for unemployment benefits, which swelled because of strikes and floods, and lower stock prices as gauged by the Standard & Poor's 500, the declines in the leading index were negligible.
These involved fewer building permits, lower consumer expectations, a decline in new orders for factory goods and speedier supplier deliveries.
The main positive contributor was a rise on the M-2 money supply followed by an increase in new factory orders for consumer goods, a longer average workweek and a wider spread between overnight interest rates and rates on 10-year Treasury bonds.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Leading Indicators" tracks index of 10 indicators designed to "lead" or predict overall economic activity, from November 1995 through April 1997. (Source: The Conference Board)
 
Table: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis" lists components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from March to April. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD CONFERENCE BOARD INC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); BONDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (61%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



62 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Petroleum Is Lower As U.S. Backs Extension of Iraqi Deal

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Petroleum futures fell sharply yesterday after the Clinton Administration said it would support the six-month renewal of a deal to allow Iraq to sell $2 billion in oil in return for humanitarian aid.
On other commodity markets, coffee futures rebounded from recent losses, while corn prices rose on concerns about weather and soybean futures retreated sharply. 
 The United Nations Security Council was expected to allow Iraq to export oil for another six months after the State Department and White House said the Administration favored renewing the deal. Kofi Annan, Secretary General of the United Nations, recommended on Monday that the arrangement continue; approval is expected soon.
Iraq has been under an oil embargo and trade sanctions since its 1990 invasion of Kuwait but received an exemption that went into effect on Dec. 10 to bring food and medicine to Iraq's residents.
Iraq has since been shipping between 700,000 and 800,000 barrels a day of crude to Western markets, which has caused prices to fall to just above $20 a barrel from about $26 a barrel early this year.
Crude oil and petroleum products were also pressured by expectations that weekly industry production reports would show that refiners are operating at close to capacity, which is likely to bring ample new supplies of gasoline to relieve tightness caused by the start of the summer driving season.
Crude oil for July delivery fell 65 cents, to $20.33 a barrel, the lowest since May 9; July gasoline fell 1.55 cents, to 61.44 cents a gallon, and July heating oil fell 1.70 cents, to 54.62 cents a gallon.
Coffee futures rose on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York amid uncertainty about whether a crop-damaging frost would hit Brazil in coming weeks, reducing world supplies.
July coffee rose 10.25 cents, to 2.642 a pound.
Corn prices advanced a second day on the Chicago Board of Trade amid forecasts of continued poor weather for growing in the Midwest, which could hamper growth.
July corn rose 3.5 cents, to $2.775 a bushel, and July soybeans fell 15.25 cents, to $8.60 a bushel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) FUTURES (95%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); COFFEE (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); HEATING OIL (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); GRAIN MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); EXPORT CONTROLS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



63 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Bond Prices Move Higher

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities moved higher yesterday, approaching the top of their most recent trading range as two reports on the economy and comments by a Federal Reserve official suggested that the economic growth rate was slowing.
In a question-and-answer session after a speech on the prospects for the Alaskan and United States economies in Anchorage, Robert Parry, head of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, remarked that the key to whether the Fed would raise interest rates again "is clearly whether this economy slows down or not to a sustainable rate of growth." 
 "We were growing at a 4.1 percent rate between the first quarter of 1996 and the first quarter of 1997," Mr. Parry added. "I think that is a rate that is not sustainable. And after a while it would generate inflationary problems."
Also affecting the market yesterday, the Conference Board reported that its index of leading indicators unexpectedly fell one-tenth of 1 percent in April, the first drop since January 1996. And a five-tenths of 1 percent drop was reported for retail sales last week.
Gerald A. Guild, senior vice president of the taxable fixed-income department at Advest Inc., called the drop in leading indicators minor and only slightly below expectations, "so who cares?" The weekly retail sales were soft, but the market did not react strongly to that, he said.
"I'm still very positive that interest rates will decline," Mr. Guild said, "but with the Fed move not necessarily right away."
The price of the 30-year bond rose 12/32 yesterday, to 96 31/32, pushing its yield down to 6.86 percent, from 6.90 percent on Monday.
Trading was thin. Mr. Guild said, "People are mostly waiting for this Friday's all-important jobs data, which will probably be benign and show a 5 percent unemployment rate, with the number of jobs added to the economy in May at about 225,000." The market will also be watching the hourly wages data and its potential impact on inflation, which remains benign and is down 2.50 percent over the last 12 months, he said.
"Today market participants made more of Robert Parry's remarks, which reinforced the notion that the economy will slow dramatically from the 5.8 percent surge in the first quarter," Mr. Guild said. Nevertheless, he added, many people still expect the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee to tighten credit in July or August.
For some investors, the Friday jobs report may confirm suspicions that the economy is slowing from a strong first quarter, thereby lowering the chances of an interest rate increase by the central bank at its next monetary meeting on July 1 and 2. Others, however, still see the economy leaning toward strong growth, making another rate increase to stay ahead of future inflation more likely.
Longer maturities were down early yesterday on hedging against a large supply of corporate debt expected to be priced this week, but bounced back after good demand from oveseas investors emerged for some deals. France's election of a Socialist government has prompted some European investors to seek a safe haven in America.
In the global debt market, the Ford Motor Company's Ford Motor Credit unit will price $1 billion of bonds today through the joint managers Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley. Yesterday the Asian Development Bank priced a $1 billion global issue through the joint lead managers Goldman Sachs International, SBC Warburg and Tokyo-Mitsubishi International.
The bonds, due in 2007, were given a 6.75 percent coupon and priced to yield 6.83 percent, or about 18 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, more than a comparable United States Treasury note.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOF (AMEX) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); ALASKA, USA (92%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); RETAIL SALES (66%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ROBERT T PARRY (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



64 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1811 words

HEADLINE: Wide Open Once Again?;
Chicago Exchanges Seek to Loosen Yoke of Regulation

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
It takes sharp elbows and a strong constitution to survive a day in the Eurodollar pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Contracts representing millions of dollars in short-term interest rate futures turn over every second in a cacophonous blur of hand signals and shouted orders. Moments of relative quiet are punctuated by frenzy as the electronic boards ringing the pit record tiny movements in the Eurodollar's value.
Busy as the Eurodollar pit is -- nearly 100 million Eurodollar contracts were traded in 1996, making it the most actively traded financial future in the world -- Mercantile Exchange officials say they are losing business to over-the-counter traders, foreign exchanges and private swaps deals. The reason: futures traded off the Chicago exchange are subject to virtually no Federal regulation. 
 From their earliest days as marketplaces for agricultural commodities, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade and the rough-and-tumble traders who work there have chafed at Government supervision.
Now they want relief and have gone to Congress to get it.
Futures traders are sophisticated consenting adults engaged in legal transactions, exchange officials argue in public statements and in legislation now before Congress that they largely wrote. It is in their own interest to police the action on the floor, they say; they don't want or need meddling Federal chaperones from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission looking over their shoulders.
"What we have is a regulatory model built for another time and another marketplace, when most of the trading was in agricultural products," said John F. Sandner, chairman of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. "Now, 90 percent of our trading is in financial instruments by large institutions. And our regulation, which is supposed to be oversight, has become micromanagement."
It seems an odd moment for traders in some of the world's riskiest financial products to be pleading for regulatory relief.
The recent history of costly failures in the trading of financial futures, swaps and other complex financial products known collectively as derivatives justifies a vigorous regulatory and enforcement program, say Federal market overseers, who themselves have more often been criticized for being weak than severe.
They cite a litany of derivatives trading debacles: Barings; Sumitomo; Orange County; Procter & Gamble, MG Futures Inc. The losses are measured in the billions of dollars.
Brooksley Born, the 56-year-old securities lawyer named to head the Commodity Futures Trading Commission last fall, asserted in an interview that the exchanges were seeking to trade effective and necessary Government oversight for their assurances of "Trust me."
"Essentially, the C.F.T.C. has regulated the futures markets primarily through surveillance to try to detect fraud or manipulation in its incipiency," Ms. Born said. "If we lose that power, we would be relegated to pursuing enforcement after the fact. Billions of dollars could be lost to consumers and businesses. Pricing at the service station and the grocery store, the prices plumbers and electricians pay for copper pipe and wire -- all are profoundly affected by the price-setting mechanism of the exchanges."
She said that the regulatory freedom the futures markets sought would result in "grave dangers" not only for market participants but also for the public at large, whose pension funds, bank deposits, insurance accounts and mutual funds would be put at risk.
The longstanding friction between the exchanges and their watchdogs at the commission is nearing a critical point. Bills now before the House and Senate would eliminate most record-keeping and auditing requirements, speed approval of trading in new contracts, lift margin limits and create a "professional market" of largely unregulated big traders. The commission would be left with power to punish violators but few tools for detecting them.
Intense closed-door lobbying and negotiations about the bills have been under way for the last several weeks. But in public, both sides are staking out strong rhetorical positions in hopes of swaying Congress.
Exchange officials cite statistics showing that off-market trading in currencies, interest rate swaps and Eurodollars has grown three to ten times as rapidly as that on the exchanges.
Thomas R. Donovan, the blustery president of the Board of Trade and a former aide to Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago, noted that trading volume in interest rate futures on his exchange has fallen the last two years, while over-the-counter trading in interest rate swaps, which are similar hedging products traded privately between two parties, are commanding a growing share of the corporate risk-management market.
The reasons are simple, Mr. Donovan said: the commission's "oppressive" rules and "protectionist" mind-set.
"Are they doing what they're supposed to? I think not," Mr. Donovan said. "They've lost their focus. It makes me wonder if they have a vendetta against the Board of Trade."
Hardly, Ms. Born replied. She acknowledged that a large volume of derivatives trading had shifted from American exchanges to overseas markets, whose regulations are not as restrictive as this country's.
But as a result of recent problems, foreign financial regulators are now looking at ways to strengthen their power. In Britain, Gordon Brown, the new Chancellor of the Exchequer, has said that securities self-regulation is insufficient to protect the public interest and is proposing ways to enhance the Government's hand to police markets. Regulators in France, Germany, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and elsewhere are meeting regularly to draft global rules governing the nearly instantaneous trading of trillions of dollars in derivatives.
Industry officials counter that futures trading is inherently risky and no regulatory regime can eliminate fraud or foolishness. Besides, they argue, most major problems have been uncovered by the affected institutions themselves, not by regulatory cops on the beat.
The two exchange chairmen, using their considerable political connections and their sizable political action committee treasuries, prevailed upon influential members of Congress -- including Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, the chairman of the Agriculture Committee -- to introduce bills that would free their trading in financial instruments from all commission regulations, except those governing fraud and market manipulation.
The Mercantile Exchange's political action committee contributed a total of $539,655 to Presidential and Congressional candidates in 1995-96; the Board of Trade's political arm spent $414,848. Mr. Donovan contributed $1,000 to the Presidential primary campaigns of President Clinton and three Republican Senators, Mr. Lugar, Bob Dole and Phil Gramm.
The industry-supported bills, now before the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee and a subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee, would create a "Pro Market" for trading in financial futures for sophisticated individual and institutional players.
Senator Lugar is co-sponsor of the industry initiative, along with two Democratic Senators, Tom Harkin of Iowa and Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont.
"I take seriously what the exchanges are saying," Mr. Lugar said. "They are competitive people. They want to expand their business and keep it in the United States and I'm in favor of that."
The Senator acknowledged that the bill now before his committee probably tilted too far toward the futures industry's anti-regulatory stance. He said that he hoped to find middle ground in a series of discussions under way among industry officials, lawmakers, regulators and the Administration.
Mr. Lugar's bill would allow the exempted Pro Market trading in financial products, but not agricultural commodities. Ultimately, he said, Congress will probably maintain what he called the "sinews of regulation" for futures markets, despite industry's pleas for broader relief. Proper oversight, Mr. Lugar said, not only protects the public but also makes markets attractive to investors who seek the security of a regulated environment.
In the House, Representative Thomas Ewing, a Republican who represents a largely rural district in Illinois, has introduced a measure that takes a more assertive deregulatory posture.
Mr. Ewing said that the exchanges had been put at a competitive disadvantage by burdensome regulations. His bill would allow professional market trading in agricultural commodities as well as financial futures, though farm interests would likely not seek that freedom now.
Still, he too suggested that the bill that emerged from Congress would retain some form of market surveillance by the commission and reporting requirements.
"We're not threatening to eliminate them," Mr. Ewing said. "We just want to see how we can make them better. We don't want to just turn these traders loose with no oversight at all."
Ms. Born's plea for a continued strong Federal role in market supervision has found few ardent supporters. Wall Street has, for once, allied itself with the Chicago exchanges to assure equal treatment of the complex financial products it designs for its clients' hedging needs. Consumer groups have been largely silent on the issue and most lawmakers have not studied the intricacies of regulating esoteric financial instruments.
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned in a speech earlier this year against "one size fits all" financial market regulation, a statement that was universally read as a call for looser scrutiny of derivatives trading among sophisticated investors.
"Migration of activity from government-regulated to privately regulated markets sends a signal to government regulators that many transactors believe the costs of regulation exceed the benefits," Mr. Greenspan said, warning that traders have already voted against American regulation with their portfolios.
Mr. Greenspan did, however, cite a need for protections against fraud and market manipulation for retail customers.
The commission position has found support from managers of government investment and pension funds, who believe that the $1.7 billion 1994 Orange County derivatives debacle underscored the need for careful regulation of the investment of public money.
And Ms. Born has an ally in John Rainbolt, a former head of the commission and an author of the Commodities Exchange Act of 1974 that established the agency.
Mr. Rainbolt, now a lawyer in Washington, said that the United States sets the standard for the world in market regulation.
"If you exempt seven-eighths of exchange trading from C.F.T.C. regulation," he said, "it's easy to see what happens next -- a quick race to the bottom for all regulators worldwide."

GRAPHIC: Photos: JOHN F. SANDNER, Chairman of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. (Cynthia Howe for The New York Times); BROOKSLEY BORN, Head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. (Chuck Kennedy for The New York Times)
 
Graph/Photo: "Trouble in the Pitts"
These days, the bulk of the activity on the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Merchantile Exchange is in futures and options on financial instruments, not commodities as it was in the early 1900's, right. The exchanges contend, though that tight regulation is driving that newer business overseas or into unregulated over-the-counter trading. As futures trading heads overseas, the Chicago exchanges rely more on derivatives, but private deals are swamping that business. Graph tracks average daily futures trading in U.S. and in non-U.S. exchanges, from 1987 through 1996. It also tracks trading on the Chicago exchanges by type of contract, from 1965 through 1996. Finally, graph shows a percentage breakdown of where corporations buy their interest-rate devivitives. (Sources: Chicago Board of Trade; Chicago Merchantile Exchange) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE; CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE; COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION CME GROUP INC (84%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (54%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (94%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (94%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (82%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE; CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE; COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (94%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (94%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (82%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INDUSTRY PROFILES ; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS) FUTURES (95%); SECURITIES TRADING (91%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); AGRICULTURE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; SANDNER, JOHN F; BORN, BROOKSLEY CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



65 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Nigeria, Set Back by Sierra Leone Rebels, Flies In More Troops

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, June 3

 BODY:
A day after suffering an embarrassing setback in its efforts to reinstate a civilian leadership overthrown by a military coup, Nigeria flew troop reinforcements into Freetown, the capital of Sierra Leone, today in preparation for a new showdown with the coup leaders.
The reinforcements, from a peace-keeping force in neighboring Liberia, arrived as the United States evacuated 1,200 foreigners from Freetown after a day of fierce fighting Monday between the Nigerian force and insurrectionist troops of the Sierra Leone Army. 
 Today's buildup came after Nigerian tropps, working under the banner of the West African Economic Community, abandoned most of their positions around Freetown.
At the annual summit meeting of the Organization of African Unity, in Harare, Zimbabwe, one delegate after another supported Nigeria's efforts, saying that the May 25 coup by junior officers against Sierra Leone's first democratically elected leader, Ahmad Tejan Kabbah, must not be allowed to stand.
At the meeting, Sierra Leone's delegate to the United Nations, James Jonah, told Reuters that Nigeria would resume its military action once it had built up its forces.
"When that is finished," he said, "they will go ahead with their objective, which is to remove these thugs who are parading as the Government of Sierra Leone."
The American evacuation today, conducted from a United States warship, the Kearsarge, was the third since the coup.
Landing in the seaside suburb of Aberdeen, about 350 marines loaded terrorized foreigners onto helicopters for transport to the American warship bound for Guinea.
The scene of the two previous evacuations, the Mammy Yoko Hotel, was nearly destroyed in Monday's ferocious combat, which pitted about 50 lightly armed Nigerian soldiers against 150 or more fighters from the Sierra Leonean Army and rural rebels who have joined the coup.
These attacked the hotel, which the Nigerians appeared to be using as an operational base, in retaliation for a heavy round of shelling of rebel positions by Nigerian warships.
With more than 600 foreigners taking shelter in the basement of the Mammy Yoko Hotel, witnesses said, the Sierra Leone forces laid siege to the building on Monday, attacking it with heavy machine guns, mortars and rocket-propelled grenades.
"I have never seen anything like that in my life, and hope never to see anything like it again," a Lebanese man who had taken refuge in the hotel said in a telephone interview. "The building was on fire from all of the hits we had taken, and we were just left to shudder through the whole day. Many of us assumed that our lives had reached their end."
The evacuees included about 30 Americans, believed to be among the last United States citizens in the country, and the British High Commissioner to Sierra Leone, whose departure signaled the closing of the country's last Western embassy. With the completion of the Western evacuation, diplomats said, the country's crisis is shifting into a new phase in which Nigeria, West Africa's military and would-be political powerhouse, faces stark choices about its future commitment there.
According to international and Sierra Leonean radio broadcasts, there was no new fighting in Freetown today, and life began to regain a semblance of normalcy. With the entire city heavily looted by rebellious soldiers, and most businesses either destroyed or closed, thousands of people wandered the city in search of scarce food, fuel and other supplies.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SIERRA LEONE (99%); NIGERIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ZIMBABWE (93%); AFRICA (93%); LIBERIA (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); GUINEA (79%); 

CITY: FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE (92%); HARARE, ZIMBABWE (92%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (83%); AFRICAN UNION (83%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (83%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (83%); AFRICAN UNION (83%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (83%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SIERRA LEONE; NIGERIA; FREETOWN (SIERRA LEONE); HARARE (ZIMBABWE); SIERRA LEONE (99%); NIGERIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ZIMBABWE (93%); AFRICA (93%); LIBERIA (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); GUINEA (79%); FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE (92%); HARARE, ZIMBABWE (92%); 

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ; MARINE CORPS COUPS (94%); ARMED FORCES (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; KABBAH, AHMAD TEJAN (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



66 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japanese Offer Plan for 0.5% Spending Cut

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 3

 BODY:
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto, who has declared that reducing the Japanese budget deficit is his top priority, announced a plan today to cut spending by about half a percent next year.
The plan, which had been expected, is the Prime Minister's first concrete step toward reining in one of the world's highest fiscal deficits. It would cut allocations for social welfare and public works projects, the two biggest components of Japan's budget. It would also reduce military spending and foreign aid, two areas that had been considered immune from cuts. 
 But economists criticized the plan for not adequately addressing the subsidies paid to farmers, who have been hurt by the liberalization of Japanese agricultural trade under international trade agreements. Farmers are a potent political force in Japan, and spending cuts have been resisted by the governing Liberal Democratic Party.
"Prime Minister Hashimoto's plan is something of an achievement and it's a positive move," said Yasunari Ueno, a chief market economist at the Fuji Securities Company, "but failing to cut subsidies to the agricultural sector makes a mess of it."
In moving to reduce its deficit, Japan is being watched by American officials, who want the Japanese to import more from the United States. They are concerned that Japanese domestic demand might weaken.
The package, for the fiscal year that begins next April, was drawn up by a task force led by Mr. Hashimoto. The Cabinet has authorized the spending cuts, which will be presented for approval to the next session of Parliament this fall.
Economists have warned that failure to reduce the deficit would hurt economic growth. The deficit has swollen this decade as the Government has poured as much as 66 trillion yen, or $569 billion, into public works projects since August 1992 to stimulate growth. That spending has had only limited success.
Economists estimate that the deficit constitutes 6.4 percent of Japanese economic output, far surpassing the 1.5 percent to 2 percent recorded lately in the United States. And with Japan's population aging, social welfare costs have increased, further enlarging the deficit.
The Japanese goal, approved by the Cabinet in December, is to cut the deficit to 3 percent of output, or less, before 2005.
Mr. Hashimoto's plan calls for the Government to trim next year's public works spending by about 7 percent, or 679 billion yen, from 9.7 trillion yen in the current fiscal year. Public works accounts for 22 percent of this year's general spending.
The Government would also extend by three years its 10-year, 630 trillion yen public works spending program.
By reducing medical coverage, the Government aims to cut 3.4 percent, or more than 500 billion yen, from social welfare outlays. It also intends to raise from 65 the age at which retirees can receive national pensions and to limit the amounts received by those with high incomes.
Japan will reduce a military spending package of 25.15 trillion yen by about 3.7 percent, or 920 billion yen, over the next three years. It will not allow any increase in next year's military budget.
It also plans to cut next year's assistance to developing countries by about 10 percent.
With regard to farmers, the Cabinet in 1994 agreed to slightly more than six trillion yen in subsidies through the end of the century -- almost $52 billion at current exchange rates -- and to set aside money in each year's supplementary budget. It has now decided to extend the program by two years, and it will not trim the total amount of the program. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); POLITICS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); AGING TRENDS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TRENDS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); AGRICULTURE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (PRIME MIN)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



67 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Liberties;
Grow Up, Mr. President

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
So now we have the lawyer of the feminist President comparing Paula Jones to a dog. A dead dog.
"The President of the United States is not going to apologize," Robert Bennett said on ABC's "This Week." "And if she insists on a trial, we'll have a trial. . . . I had a dog like that who just wanted to catch cars, and he successfully caught one one day, and I have a new dog." 
 For rhetoric like that, the President may as well retain Sammy Gravano. But Paula Jones is engaged in a risky pursuit, trying to force Bill Clinton -- a master at wiggling out of messes and leaving others to clean up -- to take responsibility.
We will see a legion of men, prompted by the President's lawyer, come forth and accuse Ms. Jones of being a jade who wore short skirts and flirted. Imagine.
But Mr. Bennett is merely the latest Clinton henchman to slime himself trying to prettify the boss.
Mr. Clinton has long enjoyed the services of a machine designed to do whatever was necessary to deflect stories about his erotic misadventures, including smearing women who dared to suggest that there had been trysts. In the 1992 campaign, Michael Isikoff reported in The Washington Post, Betsey Wright stopped what she called "gold diggers" or "bimbos" by hiring the San Francisco private investigator Jack Palladino and paying him more than $100,000 in what were delicately termed "legal expenses."He would dig up dirt on the women and offer to shred their reputations if they went public.
Feminists, who have been loath to support Ms. Jones, were shocked to hear Mr. Bennett last Sunday on "Meet the Press" threaten to root around in the lingerie drawer of the President's accuser. The lawyer was full of blustery intimidation, making sure the press knew that he had installed one of her old lovers in a posh room at the Willard Hotel and had taken a sworn statement about Ms. Jones's habits.
"Bennett is trying to revive the old argument, 'This is a trashy woman,' for no other reason than to back her down," said Patricia Ireland, the president of NOW. She said she once talked to Mr. Bennett about sexual harassment cases and he had said his daughter and female colleagues would keep him "honest" about using a strategy that discredited women by suggesting they had imagined it or asked for it.
Ms. Ireland conceded it was difficult for her organization to set itself in opposition to feminist/misogynists. "It's harder for us to deal with the bad behavior and bad treatment of women by men who stand with us on policy," she said, sounding weary. "We've been getting a lot of E-mails and phone calls from women saying: 'How can you go after Clinton? He's appointed more women, blah-blah-blah.' Clinton made that comment about the Astroturf in the back of his truck. It showed his desire to be seen as a 'real man.' You can be a womanizer and yes, even women can find that attractive. . . . I keep wanting to turn to him and say, 'Grow up.' "
At the moment, The Improvident One is trying out his familiar circumlocutions. He did nothing wrong and he does not remember ever meeting Ms. Jones, but it is possible that she was in his hotel room and that he might be willing to dig himself deeper in debt by contributing $700,000 to her favorite charity.
But what reputation is Bill Clinton trying to protect? A new poll in USA Today shows that even though 72 percent of Americans believe that something happened between Mr. Clinton and Ms. Jones, 57 percent still approve of the President's job performance. They know what his character is, and they have accepted its good and bad parts.
So the President should quit besmirching Paula Jones and settle the case, before people stop seeing him as a likable rogue and start seeing him as an unlikable rogue. It won't affect his place in history, which is set. He will be known as a weak, affable man who presided over a prosperous economy but mistook celebrity culture for political culture, who had distinguishing characteristics but not distinguished character, who relied on his entertainment value and the disappearing attention span of his country to get him out of trouble.
The President should stop kidding himself. His hagiographers will not have much to go on.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; SEX US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: BENNETT, ROBERT; DOWD, MAUREEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JONES, PAULA CORBIN ROBERT BENNETT (90%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



68 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ford to Build Vehicles Using Ethanol or Gasoline
Ford Motor announced that it would build 250,000 cars, pickup trucks and mini-vans to run on either ethanol or gasoline. The effort, beginning late next year and to last over a period of years, is the largest alternative fuel vehicle program ever in the United States.
Chrysler is expected to announce a similar program, and General Motors is considering the idea. Environmentalists were critical. Under a loophole in Federal law, building dual-fuel vehicles will help Detroit sell more big profit, big-engine, gas-guzzling trucks and sport utility vehicles. Their strong sales are putting Ford and Chrysler at risk of violating Federal fuel-economy standards. [Page A1.] 

General Motors became the second American auto maker, after Chrysler, to report sales fell in May. G.M. had an 8.1 percent drop. [D4.]
 
German Government Yields on Plan
In an embarrassing turnabout, the German Government abandoned a plan opposed by the powerful Bundesbank to cut its budget deficit by revaluing gold reserves. The maneuver was intended to help the country qualify for the single European currency, and the surrender is likely to force a big change in the assumptions underlying the euro. [A8.]
 
Setback to Big Airline Alliance
The General Accounting Office is expected to testify today that because of their proposed alliance American Airlines and British Airways ought to give up a number of their valuable landing rights at London's busy Heathrow Airport. [D2.]
 
Leading Indicators Off in April
The most widely followed index for predicting the economy posted its first decline in 15 months during April. The Conference Board reported a drop of one-tenth of 1 percent in the index of leading indicators, as 6 of 10 components moved lower. [D2.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities moved up in response to the report and to remarks by a Fed official that traders took to mean the economy was slowing. The yield on the long bond dropped to 6.86 percent. [D20.]
 
Stocks Mixed; Dow Advances
Stocks ended mixed. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 22.75 points, to 7,312.15, but technology shares skidded after new profit warnings, pushing the Nasdaq composite index down 19.88 points, to 1,384.91. [D10.]
 
Executive Chosen to Run I.R.S.
Charles O. Rossotti, the chief executive of a Virginia computer company, American Management Systems, has agreed to take on the political and technological problems of running the Internal Revenue Service, Clinton Administration officials said. [D2.]
 
Mexico Sets Growth Targets
The Mexican Government, affirming its economic policies despite electoral setbacks expected for the long-dominant Institutional Revolutionary Party, set goals through the year 2000, including average annual growth of 5 percent. [D22.]
 
Japan Eases Into Budget Cuts
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto, under pressure to reduce the budget deficit, offered a plan to cut spending in the next fiscal year by one-half of 1 percent, largely affecting social programs, foreign aid and military costs. Subsidies to the nation's politically powerful farmers were left intact. [D22]
 
Pepsico Faces Regrouping
Pepsico, which intends to spin off its fast-food divisions before the end of the year, has some regrouping to do, as a result of the departure of John F. Antioco, president and chief executive of its Taco Bell unit. [D22.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,312.15, up 22.75
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.86%, down 0.04
The Dollar -- 116.03 yen, down 0.55
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Factory Orders
 April figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.9%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ETHANOL (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); AIRLINES (87%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); BONDS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); CURRENCIES (71%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (70%); PROFIT WARNINGS (70%); ACCOUNTING (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); EURO (66%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); POLITICS (63%); TAX AUTHORITIES (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



69 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2046 words

HEADLINE: It's Young vs. Old in Germany As the Welfare State Fades

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: BONN, June 3

 BODY:
Timm Gossing is about to start his first full-time job, writing tourism brochures about towns in the former East Germany. And already he feels certain that he will not be shepherded down life's byways in quite the same way as his forebears.
Though the prospect seems distant, he doubts that his retirement years will be underwritten with the sort of generous state pensions available to his parents' generation. And, more immediately, he believes that his first paycheck will leave little for luxuries after the Government deducts its share of pension and social welfare contributions. 
 "We are living out the modernization of Germany," Mr. Gossing, 27, said in an interview in Berlin, one of several with people in the former East and West Germany. "'And it's going the American way: people will have to work harder for less money. The security that they had in the past just won't be there."
Mr. Gossing is describing a squeeze that many Americans and other Europeans might recognize. It is the common assumption that the guarantees of the welfare state need to be reined in if future generations are to inherit a healthy economy.
But the burden will fall heavily on the young adults of today, and they can reject it at the polls. That choice is playing out all across Europe these days, and it helped to bring down the conservatives in the parliamentary elections in France last Sunday.
In Germany these problems have a special force. And a vivid illustration is what could happen to the country's pension plan -- an outlook more dramatic, even, than the worst scenarios drawn up for Americans' Social Security.
Germany, Europe's economic cornerstone, may once have been viewed as economically invulnerable, but now it stands at a tricky intersection of historical forces.
Just as its leaders are concluding that they can no longer afford the pensions and other benefits that a previous generation took for granted, Germany is laboring under the costly burdens of reunification and pressure for greater austerity to achieve its cherished dream of a single strong European currency.
Mr. Gossing is entering Germany's workforce of 40 million people at a critical moment: unemployment is stubbornly high, the Government in Bonn talks increasingly of paring benefits and two generations have become rivals for the substantial leftovers of Germany's prosperity.
The conflict taking shape is between the retirees, who worked long hours for Germany's economic miracle of the 1950's and 1960's and thus feel entitled to comfort, and the 20-and 30-somethings who increasingly are being called on to finance that generation's retirement.
"This is the looming problem," said an official of the Education Ministry in Bonn, who spoke in return for anonymity. "We are not talking left/ right as the basic social division, but young/old."
 
Caught in the Middle, Young Ask for Justice
Indeed, for the young, the newspaper Die Woche said recently, "The prospect of lower pensions at the end of a working life marked by higher contributions is causing many young employees to doubt the validity and justice of the system."
The reason for such prognostications is that, under a system dating to Bismarck and the original German unification, in 1871, pensions paid out today are financed by the paychecks of people like Mr. Gossing, whose late entry into the job market is not unusual for German college graduates.
The system means that, as people of his age pay pension withholdings, the money is not put aside to grow for future pensions, but is used to pay the needs of those now retiring. In other words, some Germans maintain, the old exploit the young.
Additionally, as German society ages and birthrates dwindle, more and more old people will be looking to a shrinking younger generation to support them, meaning that either the old could get smaller pensions or the young may have to pay more to support them.
The American Social Security system is somewhat similar, in that current workers pay much of the costs of benefits for retirees, but the benefits are not as generous as Germany's and the demographic disparities are far less severe.
In Germany, as in the United States, the young seem oddly disadvantaged. While Germany's 16 million pensioners are not organized in the same powerful lobby as are the 35 million retirees in the United States, they are among the nation's most conscientious voters, meaning that political parties court them.
By the year 2030, Government statisticians forecast, more than one-third of the population will be over 60.
One idea for addressing these problems was to gradually increase the retirement age for women to 65 years, from 60, and for men to 65 years, from 63; that proposal became law last year.
Another suggestion this year drew howls of protest by proposing higher taxes on retirees. At present, retirees qualify for state pensions worth 70 percent of the salaries they earned in their final years at work. The Government's idea is to reduce that to 64 percent.
 
Demographic Changes Stagger the System
Germany's pensions system looked like a winner in Bismarck's day, Chancellor Helmut Kohl is fond of saying. Life expectancy for most Germans then was 45 years or less, while the retirement age was 65. These days, people often live well into their 70's and 80's, young people postpone their entry into the workforce as long as possible, and many people try to retire at a younger age under the lucrative plans offered by some employers.
Even then, the system might work if Germans had large families to feed into it, but, particularly in the former East Germany, they do not. Along with Italy and Spain, Germany has long had one of the lowest birth-rates in Europe. According to European Union figures, in the median-sized family in Germany, there are a statistical 1.26 children, compared with 2.05 in the United States.
This means that fewer and fewer young people will enter a workforce on which more and more old people depend for their welfare.
The problem is embedded in a broader question bedeviling the Germans as they reach what Ingeborg Allihn, a retired musicologist and part-time journalist, refers to as a "change of epoch."
"The problems are so big in this society that it cannot go on like this for long," she said in an interview in her high-rise apartment in the former East Berlin. Her remarks reflect a broad sense that change is creeping up on old certainties.
Gotz Platscher, a 32-year-old bank employee who lives in the western part of Berlin but works in the eastern part, said, "It's not as if everything is catastrophic in Germany." . He expressed particular concern about European Union plans to introduce a single currency called the euro. "The euro, for instance," he asked. "What will happen to my money?"
The uncertainty is perceived differently by easterners and westerners, divided still by what some call a spiritual and mental version of the Berlin wall.
For easterners, the challenges to Germany's welfare state, which arise from global economic pressures and the dictates of European economic integration, come as a second rude shock after reunification seven years ago confronted them with a society that many see as offering far less security than Communism.
The old East Germany, Mrs. Allihn said, was "a cozy, warm, very comfortable place for people who wanted to exist with a minimum of effort."
Reunification has been costly for western Germans, not least because they took over the pension obligations of the bankrupt east.
For those westerners looking for a scapegoat, the easiest targets are people perceived to be milking the system without paying their dues -- predominantly eastern Germans and ethnic Germans from the former Soviet Union, millions of whom qualify for state pensions paid in hard marks, even though they paid in pension contributions in now-worthless rubles and East German marks.
"Our pension funds are paying for these people although only a fraction was put in from their side," said Helmut Breiderhoff, 60, a former railways technician from Oberkassel, across the Rhine from Bonn. He took early retirement two years ago as the railways privatized, and found he was taking home slightly more as a pensioner than he earned as a worker.
The German state pension scheme is based on a system of points earned for each year at work, so that the longer people work, the higher their pensions will be.
 
Vast Differences Among Retirees, Too
Elisabeth Obliers, who lives across the street from Mr. Breiderhoff, has a different vision of the system's benefits. After raising three children and working part-time much of her life, Mrs. Obliers, now 60, collects about $600 a month in state pension. "When people say pensioners get a lot, it isn't true for us," she said.
Mr. Breiderhoff, by contrast, spent his career as a communications technician for what was then a state-owned rail system. He takes home just under $2,000 a month. His wife works in a Government ministry in Bonn and stands to get the same when she retires soon.
At the other end of the age scale, Mr. Gossing, starting his first job in Berlin, has secured a job contract guaranteeing him $2,400 for every three-week assignment he completes; working a full year, he would earn more than $40,000. But he said he expects to see 40 to 50 percent of his gross pay withheld, for the state pension, social security, health care and taxes.
Typically, Germans are obliged to contribute a fifth of their gross salaries into the state pension fund, with the employer matching one half of the employee's contribution.
The wealth of many young Germans is clouded by a coincidence of history and demographics that, according to the Government's accounting, will produce a staggering amount of inheritances in the next five years, benefiting the heirs of some 1.7 million thrifty Germans and turning more than 40,000 Germans into overnight millionaires, at least in marks.
Moreoever, many retirees, like Mrs. Obliers and Mr. Breiderhoff, already own inherited homes.
Beyond such windfalls, other statistics illustrate the growing strain on pension funds. According to the Labor Ministry in Bonn, the number of retirees on pension grew by 1.2 million between 1993 and 1995 to some 16.8 million. That is more than a fifth of the population of some 80 million.
In Germany 15.3 percent of the population is 65 or older, a much higher number than in the United States, where the figure is 12.8 percent.
At the same time, Government policies meant to cement the unity of the two Germanys increased eastern German pension levels to 82 percent of the western average of about $1,200 a month.
The total amount paid out in state pensions in 1996 was around $180 billion, of which one-fifth came from Government subsidies added to the amount raised from paycheck withholdings. That figure, representing a doubling of pension payments over 10 years, does not include payments from private pension funds, savings and investments.
In the United States, a Federal advisory panel recently recommended steps to solve the long-term financial problems of Social Security. The panel said workers could get higher rates of return if some of their payroll taxes were invested in the stock market rather than in Government securities, the only investment allowed for the Social Security trust fund under current law. Social Security pays cash benefits to 44 million people, of whom 31 million are retirees.
Other demographic trends are gripping Germany. Women in eastern Germany especially have shied from pregnancy since reunification. "In the old East Germany, I would already have a five-year-old child," said Petra Sagert, a 26-year-old bank clerk in eastern Berlin, where, in the Communist era, the authorities provided day-care centers that gave every woman the chance to go to work. "But now it's difficult," she said. "If I have a child, I have to give up my work."
The implications have already inspired many young people to abandon their parents' expectation of a substantial state pension for their old age.
"A lot of people say they must do something for themselves because the Government won't do anything," said Mr. Platscher in Berlin.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Timm Gossing, above, who is starting his career (Hans-Jurgen Horn for The New York Times), and Helmut Breiderhoff, below, in a comfortable retirement (Karl-Heinz Hick for The New York Times), are two sides of a generational split in Germany over how to bear the costs of social benefits equitably. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); ELECTIONS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



70 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: White House Offers to Alter Tax Package For Education

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration offered today to make changes to its proposed package of tax breaks for college expenses, dropping some frequently criticized elements and adding new ones in an effort to win Congressional support for an initiative that has generated little enthusiasm in either party.
Faced with the likelihood that their original proposal would be rewritten by Congress or cast aside entirely, Administration officials sought to reshape the plan while keeping its central elements, a $1,500 per student tax credit for the costs of each of the first two years of college and a separate deduction of up to $10,000 per family each year for college tuition and fees. 
 Administration officials said they were dropping their requirement that a student maintain a B-minus average to receive the credit for a second year. College administrators had warned that the requirement would create further grade inflation by putting pressure on professors to make sure that students did not lose the tax benefit because of low grades. Republicans had also complained that the requirement would be an administrative nightmare, potentially requiring the Internal Revenue Service to review grades.
Responding to complaints from liberal Democrats that the plan did not do enough for low-income students, the Administration reversed itself and said it would allow the full $1,500 tax credit even if a student were also receiving other Federal student aid under the Pell grant program. To make its plan more attractive to Republicans, the Administration added a proposal backed by the Republican leadership in the Senate to make interest paid on student loans deductible, a tax break that was repealed in 1986. Under the plan, interest payments of up to $2,500 a year would be deductible for up to five years.
To pay for the changes to the plan, officials said the Administration would propose phasing in the tax credit over coming years rather than enacting it at the full $1,500 from the start, as the White House originally proposed. Administration officials estimated that cost of the changes to its plan at $5 billion over five years.
"We're doing this primarily to be responsive to the concerns people have raised and to do so while living within the budget agreement," said David A. Longanecker, the assistant secretary of education for post-secondary education. "To those ends we have tried to come up with a package that is more progressive in structure and simpler and less intrusive."
Lobbying groups for colleges and universities said they were encouraged by the changes. But it was unclear how much support the changes would win from Republicans, who will begin drafting legislation next week to enact the five-year, $135 billion, tax-cutting package agreed to as part of the last month's balanced budget deal.
President Clinton won a vague assurance from the Republican leadership during the budget negotiations that $35 billion of the tax cut would be devoted to programs "consistent" with his college tax break plan. But the chief Republican tax writer, Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, has made clear that he does not feel bound to any specific plan, and even Democrats said they were unlikely to fight for Mr. Clinton's plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAX CREDITS; TAX DEDUCTIONS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; FEDERAL AID (US); STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION TAX LAW (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (51%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



71 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 2084 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS BUSINESS;
Never Mind Titles, Teams Clamor for New Stadiums

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
The possibility that the Yankees will move from the Bronx to a $1 billion Xanadu on Manhattan's West Side, a decision that will probably not be made until after the November mayoral election, is only one chapter in a nationwide drama that might be best described as "Stadium Mania."
In every big-time sport, owners by the dozen are asking for, and usually getting, new stadiums and arenas to finance their cash flow reveries, soaring player salaries, loans to buy their teams and estate plans. 
 The wave of construction has spurred a hot public debate: Should millionaire owners coping with the high cost of business reach into their own pockets to build luxurious sports palaces? Or, scared that a team might leave or eager to lure a team from elsewhere, should state and local governments pay for such places?
"You don't measure sports teams just in dollars and cents," said Peter Karmanos, who last month moved his hockey team, the Hartford Whalers, to North Carolina. "You measure it in cultural spirit. Ask people in Hartford what they think it means to the city when they lost the team, or in Minneapolis-St. Paul. Ask if they'd reconsider subsidizing a team to come back there."
Opponents say that subsidies, such as broad-based sales taxes, constitute corporate welfare, mocking the public's need to pay for essential services. In addition, many studies show that there is little economic gain from these kinds of projects, and that spending on stadiums merely diverts spending from other areas.
"Once you take taxes to pay for a stadium or arena, you can't spend it somewhere else," said Mark Rosentraub, a professor at Indiana University's School of Public and Environmental Affairs. "Stadium construction creates no real wealth. It just transfers it."
Still, a hodgepodge of public and private financial resources makes up the construction plans of 44 professional teams (spread over the four major sports) that are seeking, close to getting or building new stadiums or arenas. The list includes two arenas in Miami and possibly two in Los Angeles, plus two stadiums in Cincinnati, Detroit, Seattle and San Francisco. But it excludes a stadium being built for the renascent Browns in Cleveland, and one proposed for the Coliseum's site in Los Angeles, which has lost two football teams since 1995.
In New York, besides the Yankees' desire for a new stadium, the Mets are planning a retractable domed stadium on a site opposite Shea Stadium, for which they may ask government aid. The Islanders are also looking for a new arena to replace the aging Nassau Coliseum, with help from the county.
"One of the main reasons I bought the team was the understanding that there would be an effort to build a new arena," said John Spano, the team's owner.
 
From the Ball Park To the Ballot Box
The stadium and arena action accelerates almost daily: Columbus, Ohio, voters reject a tax increase for an arena and a soccer stadium. The Whalers pay Connecticut $20.5 million over 15 years to become the Carolina Hurricanes. The Minnesota Twins threaten to leave the Metrodome. The Cincinnati Bengals sign a lease through 2026 for a stadium paid for mostly with a half-cent sales tax.
"It's a renaissance," said Jerry Bell, the president of the Twins. But not for the Twins, at least not yet. The State Legislature has not enacted any measures to finance a new ball park, or even bite at an offer by the owner Carl Pohlad to trade the state a 49 percent interest in the team for financial backing.
And the Twins are not alone in seeking public aid:
 *A referendum was being voted on yesterday in San Francisco to decide whether to approve $100 million in public funds for a $525 million 49ers stadium and entertainment complex at Candlestick Point.
*In two weeks, Seattle voters will be asked to approve a $300 million package of financial aid for construction of a $425 million Seahawks stadium in an election that has been financed, with the approval of the Washington State Legislature, by Paul G. Allen, the Microsoft billionaire.
*The Pittsburgh Steelers and the Pirates, uneasy partners at 26-year-old Three Rivers Stadium, are trying this month to put a referendum to build two stadiums on a November ballot. The financing includes a 10-county sales tax increase.
Each referendum is, in a way, a plebiscite on how far governments should go to help finance stadiums and arenas for privately owned teams. Owners say they merit public subsidies because of the intangible psychological benefits of being a major league town and the economic advantages that teams generate. They wield the ultimate hammer, leaving town, which can bring a vulnerable city to its knees or usher in a sweet deal from another city.
"Corporate welfare? Absurd," said Bud Selig, owner of the Milwaukee Brewers and baseball's acting commissioner. He spent nine years cobbling together the money to pay for the team's new home that will be completed in 2000, Miller Park, including $160 million from a one-tenth of a cent sales tax increase imposed on five counties. "This will produce a better return than many of the things that get government funds."
 
Robber Barons Or Good Citizens?
In San Francisco, the Simon DeBartolo Group, which is half-owned by Ed DeBartolo Jr., the owner of the 49ers, and the Mills Corporation, a mall developer, wanted the city to issue $100 million in bonds to help back a $525 million stadium and mall complex. The old stadium, 3Com (born Candlestick) Park, would be razed.
The team and city have presented many studies to show that taxes generated by the complex will easily pay the debt on the project, and vowed to buy insurance to guarantee payments if there is a revenue shortfall. "It's not viable," said Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College. "The incremental revenues from the mall and stadium won't pay the debt service." He said the city's estimate of $6.1 million in yearly debt payments -- to be repaid with sales taxes -- should be raised to $10 million.
In a city that rejected public aid for a Giants ball park in 1987 and 1989, suspicion reigns. That trend appeared to be continuing last night in the early returns for the ballot initiative on the stadium and mall complex. With 36 percent of the vote counted, the initiative trailed by 10 percent.
P. J. Johnston, press secretary to Mayor Willie Brown, insisted that taxpayer money would never go into the project, which he said would enrich the low-income residential area near the stadium. He added that the city is better off with a new stadium than with spending up to $130 million to repair 3Com Park.
The campaign also featured the carrot and the threat: the National Football League promised three Super Bowls for a new stadium. If there is no stadium, DeBartolo has threatened to move, perhaps to open-armed Los Angeles.
 
A Big Question Of Who Is Neediest
In Seattle, the question of whether Paul Allen, whose Microsoft stock is worth $12.4 billion, deserves help from the public, is frequently heard.
"Remember, Paul Allen was coaxed into this," said Bob Gogerty, a campaign consultant to Allen. "This is a team whose owner was going to move the team in a van and Paul picked up the option. He's saying, 'I'll be a part of this.' "
But skepticism persists. In 1995, voters spurned a referendum providing financing for a $320 million Mariners ball park, then watched the Washington Legislature retool the measure and pass it.
This time, voters are being asked to approve $300 million from lottery games, stadium admission and parking taxes, sales tax credits and deferrals and an eight-year extension of a King County lodging tax. "Who's more in need?" asked Shawn Newman, chairman of Citizens for Leaders with Ethics and Accountability Now. "The guy on the street or the guy who made a billion dollars in a single day?"
But Allen has urgency and leverage. He is paying $4.2 million to hold the election, which state law allows. His option to buy the Seahawks from Ken Behring expires on July 1. And he is spending several million dollars to spread his message on television, in newspapers and through direct mail. "To the opponents, I ask, 'Would you rather not have a vote?' " Gogerty said.
 
In Columbus, Ohio, The Voters Said No
In Columbus, Ohio, a referendum to impose a three-year, half-cent sales tax increase to help finance a $285 million soccer stadium-arena venture failed, hurting a downtown revitalization effort. The referendum was defeated partly by voters not wanting a new tax or not believing the tax would end in three years.
"Subsidizing some people's idea of entertainment is not the government's role," said Richard Sheir of Voters Against Stadium Taxes. "Everyone who voted no knew they would have been subsidizing a private business."
Proponents point to another factor in the measure's defeat: visits by Peter Karmanos, who was city-shopping in Columbus before settling in North Carolina. They say the ballot led in polls before he came to town, but trailed when he left.
They describe him as a gum-chewing swaggerer who vowed to match a deal to run the complex proposed by the conservative Lamar Hunt, who owns the Crew, the Major League Soccer team, and the Kansas City Chiefs.
Karmanos's presence seemed to crystallize doubts about subsidizing a private business owned by a magnate. Greg Haas, the referendum's campaign manager, said, "I've been kicking my tail for three weeks that I didn't keep him out."
But Karmanos disputed that: "I called the $90 million soccer stadium they were going to build a white elephant, which detracted from the arena site.
"And they were trying to play this scam, that the arena wasn't built for a sports team. Hey, no one builds an arena without a team."
Supporters of the Seattle and San Franciso measures doubt that the Columbus vote will affect their referendums, although a double rejection would reverse a trend.
Still, each city's situation is different; many don't use referendums, others want to enhance their reputations by getting a team, regardless of municipal fiscal woes. Team situations differ, too. Are voters being asked to say "yes" to a tax or a lottery to lure a team? Or to help a beloved one? Is the team in first place? Or last?
The odds of passing referendums depend on how they are marketed and explained.
 
Private Money Is Now More Common
Public money will most likely remain a key element of most stadium and arena construction. But Marc Ganis, president of Sportscorp, a consulting firm, said public money is risky. "You add significant cost because the public doesn't build things efficiently," he said. "If a project goes over cost, everyone knows politicians will find extra money."
Private money is becoming more prevalent, with cash coming from rights to a stadium's name, luxury suites and personal seat licenses. The licenses are fees paid for the right to buy season tickets, an option that can't be used everywhere.
Other revenue sources include taxing the main beneficiaries of stadiums and arenas, with levies on player income, broadcasts, advertising, tickets and merchandise. Indiana University's Rosentraub said that if public money must be used, governments should get a stake in the team or a piece of the profits when it is sold.
A $250 million arena for the Los Angeles Kings and Lakers is to be built with private money by the Kings' owners, Philip Anschutz and Ed Roski Jr.
They are also exploring the possibility of building a new football stadium in the city.
"With 230 events each year, it's easier to finance an arena with private money than a stadium, with 30 events," said Tim Leiweke, the Kings' president.
But no project carries the cost of the proposed West Side Yankee ball park. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and George M. Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner, are silent about whether the Yankees will leave the Bronx, or how much the state and city will contribute to construction and infrastructure.
Steve Newman, the city's first deputy controller, said the cost estimates of renovating Yankee Stadium "are reasonable, but the money suggested for a new stadium is not." He said the city would use money from its capital budget for a renovation, "but any extra item means something else can't be done."
What Giuliani does or does not do could have ripple effects nationwide.
"If Giuliani gives in to Steinbrenner," Rosentraub said, "he's going to hurt every city in the country."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Associated Press)(pg. B13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: MINNEAPOLIS-SAINT PAUL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (55%); HARTFORD WHALERS (55%); HARTFORD WHALERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARTFORD WHALERS (55%); HARTFORD WHALERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); SEATTLE (WASH); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; STADIUMS; BASEBALL; FOOTBALL; BASKETBALL; HOCKEY, ICE STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BASEBALL (73%); MAYORS (72%); BASKETBALL (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); TAX LAW (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); SALES TAX (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD PETER KARMANOS JR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



72 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Daily Briefing;
State's Bond Rating Is Stable

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Two weeks after it expressed concern about New Jersey's fiscal soundness, Standard & Poor's has decided not to lower the state's AA+ bond rating, an official said yesterday. The rating agency made that decision because the state's overall economy is healthy, said Robin L. Prunty, the chief analyst for New Jersey at Standard & Poor's. 
 But she warned that next year's budget would be "narrowly balanced" because of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's plan to borrow $2.75 billion to help erase a deficit in the public employee pension system and provide $590 million in budget savings for the next fiscal year. The plan would also increase the state's overall debt by one-third.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP STANDARD & POOR'S CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); CIVIL SERVICES (85%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (52%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



73 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Wins Democratic Nod for Governor

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY 

 BODY:
In an extremely tight race to decide who would represent the Democratic Party in its effort to recapture New Jersey's governor's mansion, James E. McGreevey, a 39-year-old perpetual campaigner who has spent much of his adult life pursuing elective offices, defeated his two rivals for his party's nomination yesterday.
With 99 percent of the votes counted and the rest to be counted today, Mr. McGreevey, who is both a State Senator and the Mayor of Woodbridge, held a 5,000-vote lead over his chief rival, Robert E. Andrews, a United States Representative from southern New Jersey. Altogether, more than 350,000 votes were cast, a light turnout. 
 Mr. McGreevey had 39 percent of the votes counted, and most of the remaining precincts were in counties where he had received the party's endorsement.
The third candidate, Michael Murphy, who ran without any of the coveted endorsements from party leaders, had 21 percent of the vote.
Mr. McGreevey arrived at a hotel in Woodbridge early this morning, accepting the nomination and outlining some of the things he is likely to talk about in the campaign.
"Today is the beginning of the end of government by gimmick," he said. "And it is the start of improving our schools, getting auto insurance under control, moving our economy forward and ending our state's terrible addiction to property taxes."
Mr. Andrews conceded early today.
Mr. McGreevey's victory set the stage for a showdown between a little-known Democratic contender and a Republican incumbent with a national reputation, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman. In an off year for politics, the race will be one of only two gubernatorial contests in the country. Since Virginia's Governor, George Allen, is leaving office, Mrs. Whitman is the nation's only Governor seeking re-election in November.
While glossy magazine covers and network television have helped to make Governor Whitman a familiar figure in national politics, in New Jersey her image has lost luster as some of her policies, like her vaunted tax cuts, have been attacked. New Jersey provides public dollars for gubernatorial races, and winning the Democratic nomination means that Mr. McGreevey will have the state-allowed maximum of $6.9 million to take on Governor Whitman this fall.
In selecting Mr. McGreevey, a son of the working-class, sprawling communities of central New Jersey, Democrats insured another spirited clash over a $2.8-billion-dollar tax increase approved in 1990 by Gov. James Florio. Mr. McGreevey, a State Assemblyman at the time, voted for the increase.
"We will be happy to talk about Jim McGreevey's support for the Florio taxes," Mrs. Whitman's campaign manager, Tom Wilson, said yesterday.
For Governor Whitman, who ran unopposed for the Republican nomination, the party started early in the evening. She claimed her victory at a celebration in Princeton that cost an estimated $50,000. In a speech, she emphasized her administration's efforts on crime, auto insurance, government spending and welfare. Then she issued a challenge: "I ask my opponent, whomever that may be, to join with me in making that commitment to the people of New Jersey -- that we are not going to trade insults and twist facts."
Republican political analysts had said that Governor Whitman would rather face Mr. McGreevey than Mr. Andrews, in part because of his vote for the tax increase and because Governor Whitman's polish and stature would help her project a mature and strong image over the boyish Mr. McGreevey.
In his concession, Mr. Andrews said, "I have just called Senator McGreevey," he said. "I have offered him, on behalf of my family, my congratulations." He added, "I want him, and voters all over New Jersey to know that they can sign me up" for Mr. McGreevey's fall campaign.
Mrs. Whitman announced yesterday that she would begin her post-primary campaign today in southern New Jersey. In an interview last night, a confident Mrs. Whitman said she would start campaigning in southern New Jersey "because we want to remind everyone that we're not conceding any part of the state."
She said she was not concerned that her support may be wavering among voters in response to the pending vote in the State Senate on her pension bond sale or the ongoing struggle with high auto insurance rates. "We're a long way from the election," Mrs. Whitman said. "I'm not going to worry about that until November."
The Democratic nominee starts the general election campaign as little more than a slingshot-wielding challenger looking up at a gigantic Republican opponent who can easily raise money and attract media attention and is expected to defend her incumbency fiercely. Currently fighting criticism of her proposed $2.7 billion pension bond sale, Governor Whitman has also been stung by the state Supreme Court's rejection of her financing plan for urban school districts and by a petition drive calling for her to force lower automobile insurance rates. The last few weeks she has stayed on the campaign sidelines, as the Democratic candidates hammered away at her record.
Also, while voters may be disappointed that property taxes and auto insurance rates have continued to rise under the Governor, any disenchantment with her first-term performance has not turned into the same brand of venomous anger that undid Mr. Florio in 1993. Still, New Jersey voters are politically fickle: About half the state's 4.4 million registered voters classify themselves as independents. Just as Mrs. Whitman's approval ratings have slipped in recent polls, they could continue to do so up until Election Day, if the nominee can create enough anger among voters about the Governor's administration.
Yesterday's voting ended a primary season that started several months ago but attracted little widespread attention until recent weeks, when the candidates' televised debates and advertising started. Among the initial field of six or seven potential candidates was former Governor Florio, who left the field to the lesser-known names when he announced in February that he would not seek the nomination and vowed to support Mr. Andrews.
Mr. Murphy, 48, the stepson of former Gov. Richard J. Hughes, provided the race with a third contender who, although he lacked party support and money, was able to attract a surprising amount of attention with his offbeat television advertisements, his positive campaigning and his charming wit.
He won Hunterdon, Mercer and Morris Counties, but took less than a quarter of the votes statewide. In a concession speech shortly after 11 P.M., Mr. Murphy said, "We came from close to ground zero, 1 or 2 percent name recognition, people were telling us that this could not be done." One of the biggest questions in the race was just what effect the Democratic county organizations would have on the race. This was the first time in more than 15 years that the county parties were allowed to endorse a gubernatorial candidate, thus giving the candidate a prime spot on the ballot and help with getting people to the polls. Of the 21 county endorsements, Mr. McGreevey had the most, with 12, while Mr. Andrews was endorsed by nine county organizations.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "RESULTS: Primary Race for Governor" shows the unofficial results of the Democratic primary election for governor as of 1:12 A.M. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PRIMARIES; ELECTION RESULTS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (70%); TAX LAW (69%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (65%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: PULLEY, BRETT; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (SEN); ANDREWS, ROBERT E (REPR); MURPHY, MICHAEL ROBERT E ANDREWS (78%); THOMAS J WILSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



74 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Ford Pushes an Ethanol Line, But Gas-Guzzlers Profit, Too

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 3

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company announced today that it would begin building 250,000 cars, mini-vans and pickup trucks annually that can burn ethanol or gasoline, in the largest alternative fuel program in the United States since the oil crises of the 1970's produced alarm about American reliance on imported energy.
Chrysler is expected to announce a similar program next week, ethanol and auto industry officials said. General Motors is considering whether to follow Ford and Chrysler's example. 
 Ford officials characterized their announcement as part of a corporate commitment to clean air. The No. 2 American auto maker said it hoped the sharp increase in the availability of ethanol-burning vehicles -- it made just 5,000 such vehicles last year -- would prompt more service stations to sell the fuel. Only 40 stations currently sell ethanol, which is grain-based alcohol mixed with a little gasoline.
But as much as Ford and No. 3 Chrysler trumpet a commitment to the environment, they have an even bigger commitment to something they hold dear: profits. Under a loophole in Federal law, building the dual-fuel vehicles will help them sell more big-profit, big-engine, gasoline-guzzling trucks and sport utility vehicles at a time when strong sales of these vehicles is putting both companies at risk of violating Federal fuel-economy standards.
Environmentalists were skeptical about the plan, contending that it violated the spirit, if not the letter, of the standards.
Ford plans to make dual-fuel versions of the Taurus sedan, the Windstar mini-van and the Ranger pick-up truck. As far as buyers are concerned, the choice of fuels will make no difference, Ford said.
Sticker prices will be identical. Ford will outfit the vehicles with stainless steel fuel systems that can run on either gasoline or ethanol, and they will have a small emblem on the sides of the car representing a green leaf sprouting from a roadway. Drivers will have the option of switching fuels every time they fill up.
Michael T. McCabe, Ford's worldwide marketing manager for alternative fuel vehicles, acknowledged that many people might just put gasoline in the new vehicles. "The customer is totally flexible," he said.
That may be, but environmental groups scoffed at the idea of building such a huge number of vehicles, about 6 percent of Ford's total production last year, when there are currently only 40 stations that pump ethanol, all in the Midwest and Idaho.
Daniel Becker, an energy expert at the Sierra Club, said Ford was inappropriately using a loophole in Federal fuel laws. "Ford's announcement about making cars for which there is no fuel is a cynical ploy to avoid violating a law," he said.
By law, the total of pickup trucks, sport utility vehicles and mini-vans an auto maker sells in a year must have fuel efficiency that averages 20.7 miles a gallon. If Ford and Chrysler sell too many versions with high horsepower and low fuel efficiency their "fleet averages" sink, and they can incur costly penalties. Although auto makers have managed to manipulate production and sales to avoid such fines, they have resorted to a host of methods, including flooding the market with smaller, more full-efficient models, often carrying large rebates, to keep their averages within limits.
Federal fuel-economy laws are administered by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which is part of the Transportation Department. The agency, which has a nonpartisan tradition, declined to comment on Ford's move.
It is difficult to predict exactly how much Ford or Chrysler's overall fuel economy may be helped by selling dual-fuel vehicles. The formula that measures the fuel efficiency of these vehicles is quite complex. Mr. McCabe said, however, that for each such vehicle, Ford could effectively sell two more of its hot-selling, mammoth Expedition sport utility vehicles. But because the formula counts a dual-fuel vehicle as roughly equivalent to a gasoline-powered vehicle the gets 60 miles a gallon, the benefit could be even greater to the auto maker's fuel average.
Auto makers earn this bonus regardless of whether the customer ever buys any ethanol.
Not only is the fuel hard to come by, it is also more expensive to use.
A gallon of ethanol fuel, actually 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline, sells for about the same or slightly less than a gallon of midgrade gasoline. But because of differences in the energy in each fuel, a car gets fewer miles to the gallon on this blend, known as E85, so the cost per mile can actually be about 15 percent higher, Mr. McCabe said.
Besides the stainless steel fuel system, Ford installs an electronic sensor that continuously measures the proportion of ethanol to gasoline entering the engine and adjusts the operation of several engine parts .
The sensor and stainless steel fuel system currently cost Ford an extra $300 a vehicle, but that should drop with larger-scale production, Mr. McCabe said. Beginning a year from now, Ford plans to make 50,000 to 60,000 Ford Ranger compact pickup trucks a year with dual-fuel engines, he said. Within four years, the company plans to make 250,000 midsize Tauruses, Rangers and Windstar mini-vans annually with dual-fuel engines. All of the enthanol cars will be powered by Ford 3.0-liter V6 engines.
With sales rising year after year for Chrysler's Jeeps and Ford's F-150 full-size pickup trucks, and strong sales in the first year of the Ford Expedition, both auto makers are in danger of violating Federal laws and paying penalties that would run into the tens of millions of dollars.
G.M., the world's biggest car maker, also has some difficulties complying with the fuel-economy rules but is focusing its energy on the development of electric vehicles rather than ethanol-powered cars. Most foreign auto makers, particularly the Japanese, have relatively little difficulty meeting the United States standards because they mostly make smaller, lighter cars and engines that get more miles to the gallon of gasoline.
The N.H.T.S.A. has the authority from Congress to raise Federal fuel-economy standards as technology improves. But the Republican Congress, at the request of auto makers, has blocked it from doing so for the last two years by attaching provisions to the Federal budget blocking any spending for this task and may do so again this year.
Auto executives are convinced that the White House would like to skirt Congressional opposition, although the Administration has not yet introduced any formal initiative to do so. But by building a lot of dual-fuel vehicles, the auto makers could protect themselves from all but the most stringent changes in Federal standards.
Ford's average fuel economy for mini-vans, sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks for the 1996 model year was just 20.6 miles a gallon, while Chrysler's was just 20.3. Ford did not face any penalties because the law allows an auto maker to average any year with the three years before it and the three years after it. But with sales of pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles continuing to rise and overall fuel economy still falling, both auto makers are struggling even to meet the seven-year averages.
Philip M. Novell, the general sales manager for Ford-brand cars and trucks, said in an interview that the company was determined to meet the law. Expanded production of the dual-fuel vehicles "enhances our ability to comply with the law, and we will be in compliance," he said.
In calculating the average fuel economy of an auto maker's vehicles, the Federal Government takes a weighted average based on each vehicle's efficiency in the city and on highways. By an odd coincidence, Brazil, the only large country that switched to mostly ethanol-powered cars after the oil crises of the 1970's, has been switching back to gasoline-powered cars as the Government reduces ethanol subsidies as supplies have proved irregular.
 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 5, 1997, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the Ford Motor Company's plans to build cars, mini-vans and pickup trucks that can burn ethanol, gasoline or a combination of the fuels misstated the scale of production. Ford plans to build 250,000 of the vehicles by 2001, not 250,000 in 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (98%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; ETHANOL; VANS; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; AUTOMOBILES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UTILITY VEHICLES MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); ETHANOL (93%); MINIVANS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); AIR QUALITY (75%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997



75 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rises Against Pound And Gains a Bit on the Yen

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The dollar rose against the British pound yesterday after Britain's top central banker said the pound had risen too quickly against the mark.
The pound has climbed nearly 20 percent against the mark in the last year, and has strengthened recently on expectations that the planned single European currency, the euro, will be weakened by the Socialist victory in France and by the dispute in Germany between the Government and the central bank. 
 Yesterday, the governor of the Bank of England, Eddie George, said the pound's strength was "exaggerated."
Britain, which has not decided to join Europe's monetary union, has been viewed as a haven by traders worried that the euro, which would replace the mark and other European currencies, will be weak.
The dollar also continued to gain against the mark amid concerns over the euro.
"The Deutsche mark is weaker based on European problems with the euro," said Doug Schaefer, a director of foreign exchange sales at Bank of Boston.
The dollar rose as high as 1.7317 marks, before settling in New York at 1.7292 marks, up from 1.7275 Tuesday. The pound fell to $1.6324 from $1.6351.
The dollar rose against the yen on speculation that a Japanese tax increase in April would slow the economy, reversing the faint signs of recovery it showed in the first quarter. Traders are also betting Japanese interest rates will not rise soon.
"People are coming to the realization that the yen is fundamentally overvalued," said Anil Agarwal, currency specialist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Company. "The domestic economy is in bad shape. I don't think the Bank of Japan is anywhere near raising interest rates."
In New York, the dollar settled at 116.25 yen, up from 116.03 yen.
Even as British officials criticized the pound's strength yesterday, the currency could climb further if British lending rates are raised to take some steam out of the economy.
"Their economy is doing quite well and they need to slow it down a bit," Mr. Agarwal said. "They will have at least one or two rate increases left."
Higher interest rates would make debt and bank deposits denominated in the pound more appealing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (66%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); BRITISH POUND (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); EURO (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); 

PERSON: GEORGE, EDDIE ANIL AGARWAL (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



76 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Computer Stocks Extend Slump; Dow Falls by 42.49

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday, as computer issues extended a weeklong slump and financial stocks dropped on concern over higher interest rates.
Since setting records a week ago, stocks have fallen flat, hurt by a string of company forecasts for weaker-than-expected profits and by worries that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates this summer. 
 "The stock market has done a year's work in six months," said Ronald Muhlenkamp, chief investment officer at Muhlenkamp & Company. "If the market's return over time is about 10 percent a year, we're already there."
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 42.49 points yesterday, to 7,269.66, almost 115 points below its record reached on May 27. Still, the Dow is up 13 percent for the year, most of which was accumulated in the last two months.
Bond prices slipped yesterday, pushing the benchmark yield on the 30-year Treasury bond to 6.88 percent, from 6.86 percent on Tuesday.
The rise in rates hurt financial companies and among the Dow's biggest decliners yesterday were American Express, which slipped 1 1/4, to 68 1/2, and J. P. Morgan, which fell 7/8, to 108.
Broader market indexes were also lower. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 5.37, to 840.11, and has now declined in five of six sessions since hitting a new high of 849.71.
While more stocks fell than rose in trading yesterday, with declining issues topping advancers, 1,365 to 1,178, on the New York Stock Exchange, the market had its share of winners.
Eli Lilly rose 1 1/8, to 93 3/8, on expectations the company would report encouraging results today from studies of its new osteoporosis drug, Evista. The market for such drugs, which help prevent bones from becoming brittle, is expected to reach $5 billion by the year 2005.
Boeing climbed 2 1/8, to 107, amid optimism that the company's plan to buy its rival, McDonnell Douglas, for $14.5 billion in stock would be approved by regulators, said Paul Nisbet, an analyst at JSA Research. Shareholders for both companies will vote on the transaction next month.
The Nasdaq composite index, which is heavily laden with computer-related issues, fell 5.24, to 1,379.67. The memory chip maker Intel, the networking company Cabletron Systems and the disk drive maker Seagate Technology all warned that earnings for the current quarter would be off the mark because of slack demand.
"I think we're sort of in a trading range through the earnings report period here," said Bob Finch, who invests in growth stocks for Aeltus Investment Management, which has $36 billion under management. "People are going to be less willing to chase stocks to new highs, particularly those involving computers and networking products."
The Morgan Stanley high-technology index fell 3.80, to 410.33. In the last five days, the index has fallen 30.68 points, or 7 percent. Intel fell 2 1/2, to 142 1/2, and is now down 13 percent since Friday's announcement. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette reiterated its view that the stock would underperform the market.
The networking products maker Ascend Communications fell 2 7/16, to 47 7/8; U. S. Robotics fell 3 1/8, to 76 7/8; Compaq Computer dropped 1 1/2, to 98 1/2; Cascade Communications dropped 1 9/16, to 32 3/4; Linear Technology fell 2 1/16, to 48 1/2; 3Com slipped 1 7/8, to 44 1/16, and Microsoft fell 1 9/16, to 119 3/16.
Iomega was an exception, rallying 1, to 20 1/4, on speculation the disk drive company could become the object of a takeover bid. Investors also cited the company's announcement that Chicony Electronics of Taipei, Taiwan, would include Iomega's Zip drives in its notebook computers.

ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); STX (NASDAQ) (84%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); LLY (SWX) (53%); LLY (NYSE) (53%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC (84%); MUHLENKAMP & CO INC (71%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); ELI LILLY & CO (53%); BOEING CO (52%); AELTUS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OSTEOPOROSIS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (64%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (63%); MEMORY CHIPS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



77 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: New Cabinet Is Announced In France

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, June 4

 BODY:
France's new Socialist Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin, today announced a new Cabinet whose 14 ministers include 2 Communists and a member of the environmentalist Greens party.
Five of the 14 are women. In all, 8 of the 26 new ministers, deputy ministers and junior ministers, or 30 percent, are women -- far more than in the conservative coalition Government the Socialists defeated in last Sunday's parliamentary elections. 
 Mr. Jospin, who promised a slimmed-down Government that would be clean of the corruption scandals that have tainted nearly all French political parties in recent years, consulted France's conservative President, Jacques Chirac, about the list, as required by the French Constitution.
One American diplomat said tonight that the United States and other allies of France would probably have no difficulty working with the new Government. He also said that Mr. Jospin might accompany Mr. Chirac to an economic summit meeting with President Clinton and other leaders in Denver June 20-22.
Mr. Clinton wrote Mr. Jospin a letter of congratulations on Tuesday and said he hoped they could have a get-acquainted meeting soon, the new Prime Minister's aides said.
To coordinate the assault on France's 12.8 percent unemployment rate that Mr. Jospin promised would be his Government's first priority, he named Martine Aubry, a 46-year-old Socialist, as Minister of Employment and Solidarity.
Mrs. Aubry is the daughter of the former President of the European Union Commission, Jacques Delors, who was rumored to be a contender for Foreign Minister. But that post went to Hubert Vedrine, 49, a veteran Socialist foreign policy expert who served as chief of staff to the late President Francois Mitterrand and was one of his closest associates.
Running economic policy for the new Government will be Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the architect of Mr. Jospin's winning election strategy, named at the head of a new super-Ministry of the Economy, Finance and Industry.
Mr. Jospin put Alain Richard, 51, a Socialist budget expert with no previous defense experience, at the head of the Defense Ministry, an indication that he probably does not intend to contest Mr. Chirac's plans to restructure the French armed forces over the next decade to make them smaller and more mobile and to end military conscription.
The Prime Minister named Catherine Trautmann, 46, who as Socialist Mayor of Strasbourg organized a huge demonstration this spring against the far-right National Front party, as his Government spokeswoman as well as Minister of Culture and Communications.
Another Socialist, Elisabeth Guigou, 50, a former Minister of European Affairs, became Minister of Justice. Jean-Pierre Chevenement, 50, a controversial former Defense Minister, took the Ministry of the Interior.
Mr. Chevenement resigned from the Defense post in 1991 in protest against French participation in the Persian Gulf war to push Iraqi forces out of Kuwait. Later, he opposed Mr. Mitterrand's decision to support a European Union plan for a common European currency in 1999. The economic austerity policies of Mr. Chirac's conservative coalition Government were pursued in order to lower the budget deficit -- a condition for the common currency.
Robert Hue, the Communist Party leader, did not join the Government, but persuaded his party to participate, perhaps in exchange for concessions from Mr. Jospin that have not yet been disclosed. Two Communists became ministers, taking the portfolios of Infrastructure, Transportation and Housing, and Youth and Sports. A third became a junior minister in charge of tourism.
Dominique Voynet, of the Greens party, became Minister of the Environment and Land Use.
The new Cabinet, the first Socialist-led one since 1993, will meet for the first time Thursday morning.
Mr. Jospin has pledged to negotiate with France's European partners to loosen the tight budget-deficit requirements for the common currency. Mr. Jospin spoke with Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany by telephone this morning, presumably to reassure him about France's continued commitment to the project, French officials said.
Mr. Jospin's Communist allies have been opposed to it. Their 38 seats in the new Parliament provide the votes he needs for a majority in the 577-seat Parliament, but he excluded them from crucial jobs dealing with European issues.
Mr. Jospin made no policy statements today, and may not do so until he makes his first big speech in Parliament later this month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GULF STATES (50%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GULF STATES (50%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CORRUPTION (70%); SCANDALS (70%); DESERT STORM (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); ARMED FORCES (65%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; JOSPIN, LIONEL (PRIME MIN); VEDRINE, HUBER (MIN) JACQUES CHIRAC (79%); BILL CLINTON (77%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



78 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Ford Sales Off as Industry Endures a Dismal Spring

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 4

 BODY:
For the auto industry, the spring selling season was as damp and cold as the weather across most of the country.
The Ford Motor Company said today that its sales dropped 3 percent in May as the auto industry reported its second consecutive lackluster sales month. May's auto sales were well below their levels during the corresponding period a year ago, when buyers were snapping up new cars and trucks. 
 Following the industry pattern, Ford's car sales were far weaker than the company's truck sales. Ford sold 153,724 cars in May, down 12.1 percent from May 1996. But it sold 206,087 sport utility vehicles, mini-vans and pickup trucks, up 5.2 percent from the period a year ago. Sales of its wildly popular giant sport utility vehicle, the Expedition, reached nearly 21,000 last month.
The industry as a whole sold cars and trucks at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 14.8 million in May, down 5.8 percent from a year earlier. At this year's pace, the numbers "are not terrible, but they're far from great," said Stephen J. Girsky, an analyst with Morgan Stanley.
The industry's car sales dropped 11.2 percent in May while truck sales rose 2 percent, compared with the period a year ago.
Ford said that the spring sales slowdown, combined with the brisk selling pace during the first quarter, left industry auto sales on track to meet Ford's full-year estimate of sales between 14.7 million and 15.2 million cars, sport utility vehicles, mini-vans and pickup trucks.
"As anticipated, the last couple of months haven't matched the first quarter's sales rate, but year-to-date sales are consistent with our full-year forecast," said Robert L. Rewey, Ford's group vice president for marketing and sales. "The fundamentals in the U.S. economy and our business remain positive -- moderate growth, low inflation and high employment." Some of Ford's most important sellers languished last month. The Taurus sedan saw its sales drop 26.7 percent from a year earlier, despite offers of cut-rate financing. F-series pickup truck sales dropped 10.7 percent compared with the period a year ago. Just three of Ford's cars posted better sales than a year ago: the Ford Escort, up 8.3 percent, Mercury Grand Marquis, up 15.6 percent and Lincoln Continental, up 2.6 percent.
For Ford, sales were strong in early May, weakened in the middle of the month and then began to recover a few days before Memorial Day, said Philip M. Novell, the general sales manager of Ford brand cars and trucks. But he added that it was not clear how long the strong sales in late May would persist.
All of the Big Three auto makers posted May sales declines. Along with Ford's 3 percent drop, the General Motors Corporation said its sales fell 8.5 percent and the Chrysler Corporation said its sales dropped 16.6 percent. Japanese auto makers had mixed results in May: while Toyota's sales fell 6 percent, Nissan said its sales rose 7.8 percent and Honda said its sales rose 4.8 percent. The Big Three ended May with 72.6 percent of the United States auto market, down from 74.5 percent inthe period a year ago. Japanese and German auto makers gained market share at the Big Three's expense in May.
Wall Street analysts have said that Japanese auto makers are gaining ground on the Big Three this year because of the strong dollar and because they have recently introduced popular new products like the Toyota Camry sedan and small sport utility vehicles like the Honda CR-V and the Toyota RAV-4.
But Ford's Mr. Novell questioned the extent to which the introduction of imported sport utility vehicles this year had hurt American manufacturers. The Honda CR-V, for example, seems to have taken sales from the Honda Accord, he said, with Honda selling 27,108 CR-V's since its introduction four months ago but also about 22,000 fewer Accord sedans this year.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "U.S. Vehicle Sales in May" tracks the annual selling rate for vehicles sold in the U.S., seasonally adjusted, from November 1995 through May 1997. It also lists figures on car and light-truck sales in May, including statistics on market shares. (Sources: Company reports, Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); MS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (96%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); NOVELL INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); SEDANS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); SALES MANAGEMENT (62%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



79 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Brazilians Sell $3 Billion Of Unsecured 30-Year Debt

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
Brazil, seeking to reorganize its foreign debt and reduce its future liabilities for interest by at least $160 million, sold $3 billion of unsecured 30-year bonds yesterday, most of which are being exchanged for Brady bonds.
The landmark transaction was an important step on the road that is returning more creditworthy developing countries to the international capital markets. 
 In the market for United States Treasury securities yesterday, wariness over both a big supply of new issues -- Ford Motor Credit is selling a $1 billion issue -- and fear that the market might be unprepared for strong employment data this week, led to an easing in the price of Treasury securities. The 30-year bond slipped 5/32, to a price of 96 26/32, pushing its yield up to 6.88 percent, from 6.86 percent on Tuesday.
The Brady bonds that Brazil and other countries issued are securities that came into being through a plan developed in 1989 under the Bush Administration's Secretary of the Treasury, Nicholas F. Brady, to reduce those nations' outstanding foreign bank debts.
This is the third unsecured global bond deal, bankers said. The securities are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and sold to investors around the world. The previous two transactions, both completed in 1993, were a $3.5 billion issue for the Italian Government and another for the Canadian province of Ontario.
Brazilian officials, in New York yesterday, expressed satisfaction at the results of the transaction, in which the bonds were sold at a price to yield 3.95 percentage points more than Treasuries. The deal, they said, would reduce their debt-service costs, return collateral and give their country an important benchmark in international capital markets.
"They're going to save between $160 million and $220 million in net present value terms by exchanging Brady bonds for global bonds," said Charles B. Seelig Jr., managing director in charge of emerging market debt at Goldman, Sachs & Company, which arranged the issue, along with J. P. Morgan & Company. In addition, Brazil is now able to take back some $600 million of Treasury securities it had deposited at the Bank for International Settlements as collateral against the Brady bonds that are being retired in this transaction.
A quarter of the new bonds were issued for cash, with the remaining $2.25 billion issued to retire a total of $2.7 billion of Brady bond debt, bankers organizing the issue said yesterday. "This provides Brazil with a long-term liquid benchmark bond," said Rachel Hines, head of Latin American debt capital markets at J. P. Morgan.
Bankers said they expected other nations with large amounts of Brady bond debt to follow Brazil's lead, with Venezuela, Mexico and Argentina considered among the most likely candidates in Latin America. Last year, Mexico issued $6 billion of bonds to reorganize its foreign debt, but those bonds were secured and not registered with the S.E.C.
Ford Motor Credit priced its 10-year global bonds to yield 7.212 percent, or 59 basis points more than a comparable United States Treasury issue through Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley & Company.
Firms managing bond sales often hedge against possible losses by selling United States Government securities before the sale, while in some cases investors looking to buy the new debt sell Treasuries to raise cash.
Affecting the broad market, a solid gain reported in April factory inventories yesterday by the Commerce Department was stronger than expected, and traders feared that this raised prospects for gross domestic product growth in the second quarter, and with it the odds of another interest-rate increase by the Federal Reserve at its policy meeting next month.
Michael Englund, chief economist at MMS International in San Francisco, said that the strength in factory restocking might have continued through May, given the strength in Monday's report by the National Association of Purchasing Management, and that "this represents additional upside risk in the Friday employment report."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since February. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO LLC (57%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (52%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; UNITED STATES; BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ITALY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); BOND ISSUES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); STATISTICS (75%); TRENDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); 

PERSON: TRUELL, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



80 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: New York Bartender to Ireland's Kingmaker

BYLINE: By JAMES F. CLARITY 

DATELINE: MOYVAN, Ireland

 BODY:
The most notable public event on a warm recent afternoon in this hamlet in rural southwest Ireland was the arrival of a huge white bus carrying Dick Spring, the local County Kerry boy who made good in Dublin.
And once again, Mr. Spring, who has been Deputy Prime Minister three times in a 16-year political career and is also Foreign Minister and head of the Labor Party, may become the the kingmaker in Irish national politics. 
 On one side in the campaign for the election on June 6 is the incumbent Government coalition of the Fine Gael Party of Prime Minister John Bruton, Mr. Spring's Labor Party, the third largest in Ireland, and the smaller Democratic Left Party. On the other is a coalition headed by Bertie Ahern, a former Finance Minister and leader of the Fianna Fail party, the largest in the country, supported by the much smaller Progressive Democrats.
The issues are taxes, crime, unemployment and choosing a group that would do a better job of working with the British Government to end the sectarian violence and bring peace to the British province of Northern Ireland.
[The latest polls show the Government coalition trailing by 4 percentage points, with 11 percent of the potential voters still undecided.]
Most experts say that the results will be very close and that neither coalition may win the 84 seats needed to form a Government in the 166-member Irish Parliament.
If that happened, Mr. Spring and Labor, which currently has 32 seats, would probably hold the balance of power. He could stick with Mr. Bruton's coalition, but if that still did not give the coalition enough seats, Mr. Spring could switch his support to the opposition group. Although he says he has no intention of doing this, he has not ruled it out categorically. In 1994 he put the Bruton coalition into power after he walked out of a coalition with Mr. Ahern's party.
Mr. Spring, 46, is a tall, slender, soft-spoken former international rugby star and onetime Manhattan bartender. If he is part of another coalition, it would mean that he would, as Deputy Prime Minister, be the country's No. 2 official for the fourth time. Because his own party is too small, he would have little prospect of ever becoming Prime Minister, a job even his political enemies acknowledge he could handle well.
Campaigning recently here in Moyvan, surrounded by green pastures and dairy farms, Mr. Spring moved quickly in a white dress shirt, sleeves still buttoned at the cuffs, in the midday sun, a light breeze carrying the scents of animal fertilizer and newly cut grass, some of it just mowed by Mr. Spring helping people with their lawns.
In 1987, Mr. Spring, who has been in Parliament for 14 years, won a seat here in northern County Kerry by only four votes, as many voters felt he had been spending too much time in Dublin, London, Brussels and New York, where 22 years ago he was a bartender at the Mad Hatter on the Upper East Side and met his American wife, Kristi.
"Don't let the dog get out," a woman said as he entered her fenced yard. "Shake hands with my dolly," said two small girls, waving their dolls' arms at the Deputy Prime Minister.
Small boys tagged after him, one freckled lad making grotesque faces and puffing a plastic pipe as if he had tobacco in it.
Mr. Spring made brief leaflet-spreading visits to Brosan's Bar, Stack's Family Butcher, Molly's Food Store and Betty O'Connor's Food Store, where the proprieter said: "I've a big picture of his father, cut from a newspaper, folded away for 25 years. I will be voting for him."
Mr. Spring's father, Dan, headed the Labor Party for decades. So far, Dick seemed to be the unanimous choice of the people.
Then he arrived on the doorstep of Philip Kiley. First Mr. Kiley asked him to help with funds for a workshop for handicapped children. Mr. Spring took a paper from him and said he would look into it. But Mr. Kiley was not finished. "Tell me 'yes or no,' just 'yes or no,' whether you are for a referendum on abortion," he said.
The abortion issue has been interjected by the Pro-Life Campaign demanding a third national referendum to prohibit abortion, now legal in Ireland only where a pregnancy threatens a woman's life, but still illegal in cases of rape and incest.
"I abhor abortion, personally," Mr. Spring said. But he added that the issue should be handled by parliamentary legislation, not by a referendum, because the two previous referendums left gaps in the law, suceptible to Supreme Court interpretation, and a third one was likely to do the same. Mr. Spring said not many people asked him about abortion, and this seemed confirmed as he walked on.
Cattle farmers are concerned about the economic effect of mad cow disease. Most people seem concerned about the economy, unemployment, particularly long-term unemployment. Of the 250,000 unemployed people in the country, about 130,000 have been out of work for more than a year, giving Ireland one of the highest rates in the European Union.
Still, many people say that in the matter of public spending, the Government has been rather generous.
In the nearby town of Listowel, Mr. Spring is given credit for the creation of a $750,000 Literary Center and the upgrading of a local technical college.
After shaking Mr. Spring's hand, Caroline Maune, standing in the doorway of her neat white tile-roofed stucco house, provided by the local council, said she would vote for him. "He helped me get this house from the council," she said.
"There wouldn't be much crime here," Tom Fitzgerald, 55, a construction supervisor, said, noting that few people locked their doors, many even leaving the keys in the lock.
"I was born here," he said. "I've seen the area go from dire poverty to reasonable living" aided by what he called "sensible government."
That is what Mr. Spring and Mr. Bruton want to hear, campaigning on the improved economy during the two-and-a-half years of their coalition Government. The coalition says it has created 120,000 new jobs and will continue to create 1,000 a week.
The opposition coalition of Fianna Fail and the Progressive Democrats insist that the Government taking this credit is like a rooster taking credit for the dawn, that the upsurge is based on actions taken by Fianna Fail in its 1992-1994 coalition Government, which included Mr. Spring and Labor.
In the Moyvan home of Mary and Pat Leahy, a local Councillor, Mr. Spring and his wife drank tea with rich Kerry cream. Ms. Spring smiled as she recalled a woman she had just spoken to as she went from door to door on her own.
"She had a long list of problems," said Ms. Spring, whose native Virgina accent is now flecked with Irish vowels. "Especially she is against the slaughter of calves. I listened. We don't go around promising everybody everything. And at the end she said she might not even vote."
In the nearby town of Tarbert, Mr. Spring chatted briefly with Charley McGibney, 70, a retired engineer. Would he vote for Mr. Spring?
"Doesn't he represent everything my grandfather and my great-grandfather fought for?" he said. "My great-grandfather went on strike for a 12-hour day and got fired. My grandfather went on strike for an 8-hour day."
For Mr. McGibney to vote for anyone else would clearly be, as the people say in the countryside, a road to no town.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dick Spring, Ireland's Deputy Prime Minister, campaigned last month in Ballybunion, County Kerry. He could swing his Labor Party behind either of two coalition groups after the Irish elections on Friday. (Eamon Farrell/Photocall, for The New York Times)
 
Map of Ireland highlighting Moyvan: Dick Spring mowed lawns for the Labor Party cause in Moyvan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRELAND (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRELAND; IRELAND (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); FERTILIZERS (60%); RUGBY (50%); 

PERSON: CLARITY, JAMES F; SPRING, DICK (DEPUTY PRIME MIN); BRUTON, JOHN (PRIME MIN); AHERN, BERTIE BERTIE AHERN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



81 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Despite welfare state origins, Israeli enterprise blossoms.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
NATAN SHARANSKY, the former Soviet dissident who is now the political leader of many of Israel's 900,000 Russian immigrants, was in New York last week to chat up assorted journalists, Wall Street types and power brokers. It's not always a fun job these days. "All people want to hear about is politics," he complained -- an allusion to Mr. Sharansky's pivotal position in Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's fractious right-wing coalition.
A subject arguably closer to his heart is his duties as Minister of Trade and Industry, a powerful Cabinet post that reflects both his leverage in the coalition Government and his constituents' focus on bread-and-butter issues. Here Mr. Sharansky is more forthcoming. He reiterated the Government's commitment to cutting the budget deficit in half; last year it ballooned to 5 percent of gross domestic product. "We'll only spend the money we have," Mr. Sharansky promised. 
 And he defended the quickening pace of privatizing Israel's state-dominated industry -- an awkward role for the head of a ministry that runs an awesome patronage machine, dispensing subsidies and protecting favored enterprises from competition. "The $1.6 billion in revenues from privatization this year is more than the last four years combined," he said.
Mr. Sharansky also boasted that the Netanyahu Government had shifted priorities on industrial subsidies. Instead of sinking billions into factories and capital equipment, his ministry's budgetary focus is on training and research.
But Mr. Sharansky was less forthcoming about the tepid performance predicted for the Israeli economy in 1997 and 1998. After growing at a rousing 6 percent for much of the 1990's, because of tighter fiscal policy intended to contain Israel's chronic inflation, the rate is expected to fall to about 2.5 percent this year and next.
That is about the pace of growth of the American economy. And it should be sufficient to keep unemployment from rising, while sustaining Israeli living standards at roughly the level of southern Europe's. But the rate is modest compared with that of other economies with elite work forces: one Israeli worker in three has a university degree. And it hardly secures Israel's position in the economic big leagues: the World Economic Forum's 1997 Global Competitiveness Report ranked Israel 24th among 53 economies rated, behind (among others) Ireland and Thailand.
Israel's core economic problem is no secret. It is a welfare state run amok, a legacy of the country's high-minded social democratic founders and its low-minded pork barrel politics. The competitiveness report ranks Israel 44th in "government," citing its high tax rates, high levels of government spending and stifling regulation, and 33d in "openness," because of subtle trade barriers and an overvalued exchange rate.
Indeed, in light of the obvious impediments to enterprise, the real surprise is how productive the country is. "Israel is the only viable socialist economy in the world," ruefully argued Alvin Rabushka of the Institute for Advanced Strategic and Political Studies in Jerusalem.
One reason many economists nonetheless remain optimistic about Israel's long-term prospects is the success of the technology sector. Unlike traditional industries, high-technology start-ups have been relatively unaffected by Israel's rigid labor laws and busybody consumer regulations. And since the start-ups are largely export-oriented, they do not threaten established businesses that have the muscle to make life miserable for competitors. Among the major success stories: Teva Pharmaceuticals, Tadiran (telecommunications), Scitex (electronic imaging) and Aladdin Knowledge Systems (software).
The interventionist traditions actually seem to be helping transform Israel into what Mr. Sharansky hyperbolically calls "a high-tech superpower." Of some 280 technology projects given seed money by the Government in the last few years, a remarkable 41 percent have managed both to create marketable products and to find private underwriters. Venture capital firms are booming, with nearly $2 billion available for high-risk enterprise. Meanwhile, dozens of foreign companies -- for example, Hewlett-Packard, Intel and Motorola -- have set up research and development operations in Israel to tap the economy's skill base in science, medicine and technology.
Mr. Rabushka cautions that this high-technology end run can never fully compensate for Israel's procrastination in deregulating less glamorous industries, phasing out subsidies, taming featherbedding labor unions and lowering marginal tax rates. "High tech represents just 5 percent of Israel's G.D.P.," he said.
But the blossoming of a far more flexible economy on the old statist hulk is intriguing. There is more than one way, it seems, to skin the socialist cat.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Niculae Asciu) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (75%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLITICS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TRENDS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



82 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Fishing Talks and Fighting Words

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, June 4

 BODY:
If salmon only carried passports, how much easier it would be to determine which of them should by rights swell the nets of Canadian fishermen and which should end their silvery lives in American hands.
But as it is, the Pacific Salmon Commission negotiations, better known as the salmon talks, have degenerated in recent weeks to the point where they are coming to be better known as the salmon wars, replete with charges of gunboat diplomacy, angry accusations of flagrant overfishing and the detention of American fishing vessels by the Canadian authorities. 
 Rarely do relations between the United States and its sprawling, sparsely populated neighbor to the north produce so much friction. But as with many battles, the timing of the salmon spat is strategic: the Pacific salmon season begins in less than three weeks, and a record bonanza is expected in a catch typically worth $300 million a year.
In addition, some United States officials have attributed the recent rise in Canadians' tough-on-America talk to the political atmosphere in the lead-up to the Canadian elections that were held on Monday.
Now that those elections are over, the salmon negotiations, which broke down last month, are expected to resume soon and take up yet again just how much fish each side should be allowed to catch. But with each accusing the other of overfishing, the chances of prompt resolution remain unclear.
"The United States has been overfishing with impunity," said Glen Clark, the Premier of British Columbia. "The Pacific Salmon Treaty says that each jurisdiction should roughly get their share of the fish that are raised or originate in their waters, and the empirical evidence is overwhelming that the U.S. is catching about 900,000 more per year than its Alaskan share would justify. That amounts to 40 million to 60 million Canadian dollars over what they should be getting."
The American side argues that its fishing practices have been consistent with obligations under the Pacific Salmon Treaty, adopted by the two nations in 1985, and that if overfishing is the issue, Canadian fishing practices have been the main problem.
Under the treaty, the amount of fish each country may catch varies in proportion to the size of the salmon runs in its rivers. Both sides agree on that principle, but in practice wrangling arises year after year over specific quotas as fish stocks swell and dwindle.
The dispute escalated into maritime muscle-flexing last week, when the Canadian authorities in Port Hardy, British Columbia, detained four American vessels traveling between the lower 48 states and Alaska, saying they had violated a new Canadian law by failing to check in by radio with officials there and stow their gear below decks.
The skippers were fined about $215 each and allowed to go on their way, but American rancor over the Canadian tactic mounted to the point where the State Department canceled a re-start of the salmon talks that was scheduled for last Friday.
Senator Frank H. Murkowski of Alaska, where fishing supports about 73,000 jobs, proposed having Coast Guard escorts accompany American fishing vessels, and possibly bringing in the Navy as well. He also suggested economic retaliation, perhaps a cut in imports of softwood lumber or farm-raised salmon from Canada.
"There is no reason for American fishermen to be used as pawns in this dispute," the Senator said.
Firing his own political guns, Mr. Clark, the British Columbia Premier, has given 90 days' notice that he wants to end an arrangement under which the United States Navy tests torpedoes off Vancouver.
Underlying the whole dispute is the Pacific Salmon Treaty, which governs the salmon catches on the West Coast from Oregon to Alaska. Although it was adopted in 1985, and renewed in 1994, details of its implementation must be worked out each year. If they are not set by the time the season starts, local managers improvise, prompting worries that the lack of coordination will lead to further overfishing. The talks that are currently suspended are yet another round of these annual negotiations, conducted by the Pacific Salmon Commission, made up of members from each of the two countries.
And underlying the problems with the treaty is the fact that nature does not respect national boundaries: the fish from both countries intermingle in the ocean. The Canadians want the American fishing fleet to haul in fewer of the sockeye salmon that head for the Fraser River in British Columbia, while the United States wants Canada to lighten up on its catch of coho salmon off Vancouver Island that head to American waters.
Salmon clashes last got this bad before the treaty's renewal in 1994, when Canada clamped a "transit fee" on American fishing vessels that passed through its waters. That cost American fishermen about $300,000, which the United States Government reimbursed.
With memories of those hassles still fresh, fishermen preparing in Seattle for this year's salmon season say they could do without the added worries.
"It's something we'd rather not be facing again," said Rob Zuanich, executive director of the Purse Seine Vessel Owners' Association in Seattle, which represents 500 fishing-boat owners. "Everyone wants to do the right thing. It's a question of what we're going to have to give up to do it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: When his boat, the Four Daughters, was detained last week along with three other American fishing vessels in Port Hardy, British Columbia, Thomas Millman had little to do but sit and wait for her release. (Mark van Manen/The Vancouver Sun) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); ALASKA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC SALMON COMMISSION (58%); PACIFIC SALMON COMMISSION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC SALMON COMMISSION (58%); PACIFIC SALMON COMMISSION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); ALASKA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SALMON FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FISHES (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (89%); FISHERIES (89%); FINFISH FISHING (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); ELECTIONS (75%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (61%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



83 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: Orders Placed At Factories Gained 1.2% During April

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
Orders placed with factories rose 1.2 percent in April, more than expected, a sign the manufacturing economy remained in high gear after a strong start to the year.
The increase, reported by the Commerce Department today, was in contrast to March's revised 1.3 percent decline. Orders increased in the year's first two months. Analysts had expected an April increase of only nine-tenths of 1 percent. 
 As is the case with every set of major economic data, analysts examined today's report for clues as to whether growth might be strong enough to prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates.
The April gain in factory orders "suggests the manufacturing sector will continue to provide support to the economy," said Kevin Flanagan, money market economist at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
Still, analysts have said that economic growth probably will decelerate in coming months from the first quarter's very strong annual rate of 5.8 percent.
April's gain was led by stronger demand for transportation equipment, fabricated metal products and metal-working machinery. Factory inventories increased six-tenths of 1 percent, faster than March's rise of two-tenths of 1 percent.
Outside of the volatile category of aircraft and other transportation equipment, factory orders increased nine-tenths of 1 percent. Excluding the military industry, they rose eight-tenths of 1 percent.
By category, orders for durable goods, expensive items made to last three or more years, rose 1.3 percent in April after decreasing 2.2 percent in March.
Orders for nondurable goods, such as food and clothing, rose 1 percent in April after decreasing three-tenths of 1 percent in March.
Also, factory shipments, a gauge of current demand, rose 1.2 percent, while unfilled factory orders, a measure of pent-up demand, fell three-tenths of 1 percent, the second consecutive monthly decline.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Factory Orders" tracks manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, from November 1995 through April 1997. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SHIPMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



84 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 19; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: SOCCER;
Scarsdale Gets Its Due For Years of Teamwork

BYLINE: By TARIK EL-BASHIR 

DATELINE: SCARSDALE, N.Y.

 BODY:
Most of the players on the girls soccer team at the high school here have been teammates for so long that one of them swears they are telepathic.
"We know each other so well," said Samantha Lang, a senior captain of the Scarsdale High School Raiders, that "it's like you almost know where someone is going to be before they get there." 
 That is not hard to believe, considering that seven of the players, all seniors, have been teammates on varied squads since the third grade. And five of those seven school teammates play on the same club team during the fall.
One look at the on-the-field interaction among Lang, Jessica Helfand, Jenny Bross, Leslie Patent, Jamie Moser and Michelle Edelman (Mandy Weil is one of the seven, but she was injured in the preseason) makes it clear why Scarsdale has the best high school team in the New York metropolitan area.
Not only that, but the Raiders, 17-0, are ranked 16th in the nation by the National Soccer Coaches Association Poll. They are a victory away from the championship in New York Section 1, which holds its girls soccer season in the spring.
"It's very helpful that these girls started out young playing together," said Bob Zayac, coach of the girls and boys teams at Scarsdale. "It also helps that most of these girls play soccer 11 or 12 months out of the year.
"They are all very strong technically," Zayac said. "That is why we are so successful."
On Thursday, the Raiders will face John Jay of East Fishkill in a rematch of last year's championship game. Scarsdale defeated John Jay during the regular season last year, but it failed to win the championship.
"We beat John Jay in the regular season this year, too," Zayac said. "We know that doesn't mean anything. Look at what happened to us last year."
Scarsdale advanced to the championship by defeating Mamaroneck, 1-0, on Tuesday. A goal by Luskin 2 minutes 3 seconds into the second half of the semifinal game propelled the Raiders into Thursday's final.
This team is successful for many reasons, but the one most frequently mentioned is the players' communication on the field. When a player makes a mistake or is about to make one, a teammate will let her know it.
But this team is not all talk; its offense is productive and its defense is suffocating.
The Raiders have outscored their opponents by 65-6 this season, earning shutouts in 12 of their 17 victories. They are 31-1 over the last two seasons.
And all of that offense has come despite injuries to the team's starting center-forward and her replacement.
Linny Zayac, a Scarsdale High School freshman and the coach's daughter, has been more than adequate in their places, scoring 16 goals and making 4 assists.
The team prides itself on its tough defense, and goalkeeper Jenny Bross may be its biggest strength. Though she was not tested often in Tuesday's semifinal, she was forced to make two point-blank saves late in the game.
While the Raiders may be the best soccer team in the area, soccer is not the only sport these Raiders play. Every player competes in at least one other sport.
In fact, Luskin, Merrick Shanahan and Marcy Busch -- all starters on the soccer team -- were on Scarsdale's state championship field hockey team last year.
And just because some of the girls drive luxury cars to practice, it does not mean they act like characters from "Clueless," the popular film comedy starring Alicia Silverstone that stereotypes teen-age girls from an affluent area.
"It is a misconception," Coach Zayac said. "It could not be farther from the truth with this team. I have never had a team that was beaten physically. That is probably the opposite of what someone would expect from a girls team from Scarsdale.
"The community is not only successful economically and socially, it has a work ethic that carries over to the soccer field."
The national ranking is hardly exact, considering that the listed teams rarely play one another. Being listed among the nation's best, however, is enough for this group.
"We are so happy about the ranking," Linny Zayac said. "No one on the team was expecting it. But I think that we deserve it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scarsdale's Michelle Edelman (No. 5) and Jessica Helfand (No. 7) have been teammates on various squads since they were in the third grade. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCCER; INTERSCHOLASTIC ATHLETICS SOCCER (94%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); 

PERSON: EL-BASHIR, TARIK

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



85 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Woman Gets $6.6 Million In Sexual Harassment Suit

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO 

 BODY:
A Manhattan jury awarded a Bronx woman $6.6 million yesterday for sexual harassment she endured during and after her employment at a Ford dealership in Manhattan.
The six-member jury unanimously found that the dealership had engaged in sexual harassment, retaliation against an employee and intentional infliction of emotional harm. 
 The lawsuit, which was filed in 1994, charged that in 1992 and 1993, a supervisor and employees of Manhattan Ford Lincoln Mercury, at 555 West 57th Street, harassed Maureen McIntyre, a service adviser, after she rebuffed the advances of a supervisor, Steve Czerniuk.
Sexually explicit statements were carved into her desk and Ms. McIntyre was grabbed by the throat by a co-worker, Robert Lusko Jr., the complaint said.
Most of the award, $5 million in punitive damages, was made yesterday in State Supreme Court; compensatory damages of $1.6 million had been awarded on Tuesday, after a two-week trial. The punitive damages were based in large part on the wealth of the dealership, which is owned by the Ford Motor Company.
"I am pleased I told the truth, and everyone believed me," said Ms. McIntyre, who was greeted by supportive jurors after the verdict. Ms. McIntyre, 35, lives in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, where she is married to an auto parts manager for another dealership.
Neither the lawyer representing the dealership, Perry Heidecker, nor a spokeswoman for the dealership immediately returned calls seeking comment last night.
The company has 15 days to appeal the award. Reductions have occurred in other civil suits with large awards, particularly when the punitive damages were substantial.
Murray Schwartz, the lawyer for Ms. McIntyre, said that his client was awarded $100,000 for sexual harassment; $200,000 for emotional pain and suffering and $300,000 for future pain and suffering because of the retaliation; $100,000 for lost wages and $200,000 for future lost wages. She also received $700,000 for present and future pain and suffering for the intentional infliction of emotional harm.
Mr. Schwartz, who represented a centerfold model in a sexual discrimination case against Penthouse magazine in the 1980's, said that the punitive damages were $1 million for sexual harassment; $1.5 million for retaliation and $2.5 million for infliction of emotional harm.
"They fired her because she complained about the sexual harassment and a hostile environment," he said, "and then they protested her right to unemployment insurance, and then she was unable to get a job in the industry." Ms. McIntyre was dismissed on Dec. 17, 1993.
He added that the dealer's claim that Ms. McIntyre was insubordinate was a pretext to get rid of her.
Mr. Schwartz said that Ms. McIntyre was called various derogatory names and given sexual suggestions. "Some of the behavior was pretty awful," he said. "Someone tried to choke her. People who worked there saw red marks around her neck."
The lawyer said that Ms. McIntyre filed a criminal complaint but was afraid to follow through.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: MANHATTAN FORD LINCOLN MERCURY FORD MOTOR CO (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MANHATTAN FORD LINCOLN MERCURY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; SUITS AND LITIGATION SEXUAL HARASSMENT (93%); DAMAGES (92%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); EMOTIONAL DISTRESS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); APPEALS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK; MCINTYRE, MAUREEN

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



86 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Big German Union Accepts Pact Leading to Wage Cuts
A union representing Germany's 600,000 chemical workers agreed to a contract that opens the possibility for troubled companies to reduce wages by 10 percent -- a bow toward workplace flexibility in a country that has lost more than a million jobs in five years.
Business leaders welcomed the pact, which comes at a time of insecurity in German industry over global competitiveness. The contract, covering about 1,700 companies, including Hoechst A.G., BASF and Bayer A.G., was the sharpest departure to date from Germany's ironclad work rules. [Page A1.] 

Factory Orders Up 1.2% in April
Orders placed with factories rose an unexpected 1.2 percent in April after declining by a revised 1.3 percent in March, the Commerce Department reported. The increase was the latest sign that the manufacturing economy remained strong. [D8.]
 
Ford Sales Fell in May
Ford reported that sales dropped 3 percent in May, as car sales fell and truck sales rose. G.M. and Chrysler had more severe declines, 8.5 percent and 16.6 percent. Japanese auto makers had mixed results. [D4.]
 
Airline Alliance Is Opposed
American Airlines and British Airways encountered strong opposition as they sought during a Senate Commerce Committee hearing to win support for their proposed marketing alliance. [D2.]
 
Both Dow and Nasdaq Decline
Stocks fell as computer issues extended a weeklong slump, and financial stocks dropped on concern that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates this summer. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 42.49 points, closing at 7,269.66, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 5.24, to 1,379.67. [D10.]
 
Brazil Sells $3 Billion in Bonds
Brazil sold $3 billion of unsecured 30-year bonds, most of which are being exchanged for Brady bonds, in an effort to reorganize its foreign debt and reduce its future interest costs by at least $160 million. In the United States Treasury market, the yield on the 30-year bond edged up to 6.88 percent. [D8.]
 
Nomura and Ex-Executives Charged
Prosecutors charged Nomura Securities and two former top executives with illegally compensating a reputed racketeer for $430,000 in trading losses. [D4.]
 
U.N. Extends Iraqi Oil Sales
Iraq will be allowed to sell $2 billion in oil for a second six-month period to pay for food, medicine and other essential items for civilians, under a plan extended by the United Nations Security Council. [A3.]
 
Obstacles to Central Asian Pipeline
A proposal for a 870-mile, $2 billion natural gas pipeline from Turkmenistan through Afghanistan to Pakistan has been slowed by political turmoil and lack of financing. Unocal of the United States and Bridas Energy of Argentina have competed to build it. [D4.]
 
Woman Wins Damages in I.R.S. Raid
A Federal judge in Denver awarded $250,000 in punitive damages to a woman whose family business was raided by armed I.R.S. agents four weeks after the woman, Carole Ward, 49, insulted an I.R.S. agent. [D7.]
 
Texans Allowed to Sue H.M.O.'s
Texas will soon become the first state where consumers will explicitly be allowed to sue their health maintenance organizations on charges of medical malpractice or negligence. The state's legislation is one of the sharpest reactions yet in the national backlash to the organizations' power; similar measures are pending in other states, including New York. [A16.]
 
Auto Insurance Fraud Ring Cited
Insurance company investigators said they had discovered the nation's largest organized auto insurance fraud ring in northern New Jersey, involving at least $75 million in bogus claims and probably raising premiums for drivers across the state. Allstate sued 749 people who, it said, were involved. [A1.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,269.66, down 42.49
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.88%, up 0.02
The Dollar -- 116.25 yen, up 0.22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BAYN (FRA) (91%); BAY (MCE) (91%); BAY (BIT) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: BAYER AG (91%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (55%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); DAMAGES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CHEMICALS MFG (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); AIRLINES (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); BOND MARKETS (68%); EXTERNAL DEBT (67%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (65%); JUDGES (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (64%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



87 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2714 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong's Business Elite Tells Americans: Don't Panic

SERIES: WAITING FOR CHINA: The American Connection

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
On a warm spring night last month, the entrepreneurs and billionaires who built modern-day Hong Kong held an opulent dinner here at the Four Seasons Hotel to send the Washington establishment an urgent message: Calm down.
Don't overreact to every Chinese pronouncement about the future of Hong Kong, they warned members of Congress and Administration officials. Don't assume the worst about restrictions on civil liberties. And most important, let us handle Beijing. 
 "We are not in trouble," Victor Fung, a prominent property owner, insisted that night to members of Congress and Administration officials who deal daily with Asia. "We are not panicked."
In truth, the Hong Kong business elite is panicked -- but about how to manage Washington, not Beijing. The executives' fear is that Congress, with no other tools than economic sanctions at hand, might lash out in response to a minor roundup of protesters or a modest political crackdown, and send an already rocky relationship between the United States and China into a costly and bitter deterioration.
Formally, the United States will simply be an observer on July 1 when Prince Charles ends Britain's 155-year-long control over Hong Kong, the booming financial capital of Southeast Asia, and the Chinese reclaim a territory whose success has profoundly changed China's direction. But as a matter of economic Realpolitik, Washington is the central player.
All sides in the arguments and political maneuvering leading up to the turnover agree that America is the key to Hong Kong's future, both as a huge investor and trading partner, and as the single loudest international power calling for Beijing to respect Hong Kong's autonomy.
And in recent months everyone from the departing British to the bullish-sounding billionaires of the Better Hong Kong Foundation, and from labor unionists to Martin Lee, the chief democracy advocate, have come here in hopes of manipulating the political and economic levers in Washington's hands, to their own ends.
The executives are calling for Washington to do nothing, arguing that strong reactions can only anger Beijing. The unions and democracy advocates see the United States as their only brake on Beijing but decline to specify how Washington should use its leverage.
Meanwhile, the Clinton Administration has begun a lobbying campaign of its own in Hong Kong. In a series of strong but precisely worded warnings, it has argued that the markets rather than the White House or Congress will ultimately punish the Chinese if Hong Kong's autonomy and civil liberties are trampled.
"My message is simple," Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, said in Hong Kong recently. "There is no firewall between economic freedom and freedom in its many other dimensions.
"The free flow of information, the ability of people to remain free, to enter into transactions, to speak out: these are all the essential elements of free markets and a strong financial system," he said.
The Administration is betting that Mr. Summers' economic credentials make it easier to deflect Chinese criticism that Washington is interfering in its economic affairs.
To Americans doing business in Hong Kong, Mr. Summers is even more direct, cautioning executives about the risks of becoming apologists for the Chinese or the new Beijing-appointed Hong Kong Government. "If the two systems are going to merge," he said, "it is in everyone's interest that China become more like Hong Kong than the other way around."
But it is far from clear that the message is winning converts in Hong Kong. And in Washington, what was once a clear policy to treat Hong Kong as a completely autonomous entity, even after Beijing takes control, has been muddied by the debate about relations with China.
In a nonbinding resolution passed overwhelmingly this spring, Congress threatened to place huge sanctions against Hong Kong exports if China were to crack down on civil rights. Within days, that strategy was bitterly criticized by all sides in Hong Kong, from pro-Beijing executives to democracy advocates and Governor Chris Patten, who said it would "deprive Hong Kong of its livelihood at the moment it most needs support."
Since then, Congressional leaders have backed away from that strategy. But on Tuesday, Senator Jesse Helms, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, opened a new front: He introduced a resolution to deny China "most favored nation" trading status, an annual exercise that this year could turn into a tough fight. He linked the matter to China's handling of the succession.
Mr. Helms declared that it was foolish to treat Hong Kong as a separate entity if the Chinese will not, and argued that China has already reneged on many promises to keep Hong Kong's political freedoms. "Yet the United States has failed to prevent or reverse a single violation" of the 1984 accords on the handover, he said.
On Thursday, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin is expected to respond, telling American executives who have pressed for permanent trade status for China that revoking the trade status would "harm Hong Kong in the name of helping it."
 
Primary Investor
Roads Lead to U.S., Not Britain or Japan
Hong Kong is known around the world as a Chinese city with a distinctly British flavor, down to the daily high tea at the Peninsula Hotel. But amid the giant towers of Exchange Square, home of the booming Hong Kong stock exchange, it is taken for granted that the territory's economic interests are far more enmeshed with the United States, whose consulate sits just below the Governor's Mansion.
"There is a reason that everyone with an interest in Hong Kong's future is running to Washington these days, not to London or even Tokyo," said Robert Broadfoot who runs a political-risk consulting firm in the city.
The linkage has been tightened by the long recession and stock-market fall in Japan. Despite China's looming control, many American companies have cut back their Tokyo offices and moved their Asian headquarters to Hong Kong in the last five years, hoping to use Hong Kong as a beachhead into both China and the booming nations of Southeast Asia.
Today there are more than 1,100 American companies with regional bases in Hong Kong, led by investment houses like Morgan Stanley and banks like Citicorp. The American Chamber of Commerce estimates, perhaps stretching the numbers a bit, that American-based companies employ 10 percent of Hong Kong's work force of 2.5 million.
During the cold war, the American Consulate in Hong Kong was a major outpost for the Central Intelligence Agency. Today it is a base for issues at the forefront of American relations with Asia: the crackdown on drug trafficking, organized crime and counterfeiting of American currency and American-made products. "For a long time the U.S. policy in Hong Kong was that the handover is a British problem, and we're sure they'll work it out," said Jeffrey S. Muir, a senior executive for Seagram Asia Pacific who has lived in Hong Kong for more than two decades. "People don't think that way any more."
As a matter of both law and official policy, Washington's stance toward Hong Kong after the transition is to treat it as a completely separate entity from China, building on China's commitment to treat Hong Kong under the doctrine of "one country, two systems."
"We can't insist that China respect Hong Kong's autonomy unless we do as well," Jeffrey Bader, the deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asia, said to Congress earlier this year.
But carrying out that policy creates difficult anomalies. Hong Kong will continue to have a separate textile quota from China's, even though Chinese manufacturers have cheated on those quotas for years by placing Hong Kong labels in Chinese-made goods. The Commerce Department will continue to keep separate trade statistics for the territory, rather than lump Hong Kong trade with China's.
Hong Kong will continue to have its own vote at the World Trade Organization in Geneva, infuriating Chinese officials, who say it is an outrage that the territory belongs to the organization while China is in a tense negotiation to enter. Nonetheless, Hong Kong officials insist that they, not Beijing, will decide how to vote within the organization.
There will even be separate export controls. Electronics makers, for example, will be able to ship sensitive technologies to Hong Kong that could not be sent without licenses to Beijing.
"The whole system presumes that the Chinese will truly respect their border with Hong Kong," a senior Western official said in Hong Kong recently. "The first time some supercomputer whisks through Hong Kong and shows up in a nuclear weapons lab in Shanghai, the assumptions begin to crack apart."
An American official here with a more jaundiced view of the policy -- and of its assumption that Hong Kong courts, customs service and financial regulators will remain completely independent -- put it another way.
"Here's the deal," he said. "After July 1 we pretend that Hong Kong isn't part of China, even though it is. And we still insist that Taiwan is still part of China, even though it isn't."
 
Civics Lesson
Market Strength Is Tied to Freedom
The Clinton Administration's political strategy before the transition is to constantly repeat Mr. Summers's argument that China cannot reap the financial benefits of a booming Hong Kong unless the city remains a place of open dissent, corruption-free courts and markets that are less rigged than in most of Asia.
"This was the best way we could think of to convey our message to the Chinese," a senior Western diplomat in Hong Kong argued recently.
"Lecturing them about human rights is a proven failure," he said. "So we are simply trying to make the point that if you want to have a solid stock market that people trust, you have to have newspapers that are free to write about the Dalai Lama, or the state of the independence movement in Taiwan. These are all subjects that deeply affect the atmosphere for investors."
So far, there are reasons to question whether the message has got through. In interviews in Hong Kong, many of the city's tycoons and market players dismissed that argument as overblown, saying that only Americans believe that free markets require American-style liberties.
Several Hong Kong leaders say that C. H. Tung, Hong Kong's chief executive-designate, has asked many of them, "If it works in Singapore, why not the new Hong Kong?" The Japanese send a similar signal, telling Hong Kong's Government that Japanese investors want stability above all else.
Perhaps the biggest test of Hong Kong's ability to separate the economic from the political lies in how it handles the "red chips," huge state-owned Chinese companies that have become the hottest properties on the Hong Kong exchange.
The companies come from a tradition of enormous secrecy, and they bridle at Hong Kong's requirement that companies publish extensive financial data, including subsidies they received from Beijing. In fact, their chief asset, the one propelling their share prices into the stratosphere, is their "guanxi," or connections to the Chinese leadership.
That means their future is completely bound up in the most delicate political decisions facing China's leadership -- for example, whether the leaders are willing to risk millions of jobs because the world demands that China open its domestic market and strip away the protections that have allowed some state-owned companies to operate as monopolies for decades.
Already some analysts for Western brokerage houses say they feel subtle pressure from their employers not to write anything too critical about the "red chips," for fear that Beijing will take lucrative business elsewhere. They would be hesitant, several said, to declare that a state-run company was cooking its books or bloated with far too many workers.
And Western investors wonder whether, after the transition, Hong Kong regulatory authorities will remain independent and uncowed by their new masters in Beijing, who many expect will press for less strict standards for companies with friends in high places.
"Watch what happens the first time the Hong Kong authorities delist some stock that has plenty of connections," the head of an American brokerage in Hong Kong said recently.
"The risk in Hong Kong," said a British official who is pessimistic about its future, "is that a stifling political correctness sets in." If that happens, he adds, Beijing will discover that the markets are "self-sanctioning."
 
Anxieties at Home
Executives Object To Democracy Card
Hong Kong boosters say that Beijing understands that the markets must be free to exert such discipline on political meddling. The vast lobbying campaign that the city's rich and powerful have waged in Washington was prompted by the fear that Congress will feel compelled to do something anyway, egged on by prominent leaders of the Hong Kong opposition like Martin Lee, who reminded Congress during a visit here in April that the 1992 Hong Kong Relations Act "commits your Government to support a free, elected legislature in Hong Kong."
Mr. Lee's sympathetic reception on Capitol Hill infuriated many of Hong Kong's rich and powerful. "You want to know what would be a good American policy toward Hong Kong?" Ronnie C. Chan, one of the most outspoken of the American-educated members of the Hong Kong elite leading the lobbying campaign in America, asked over dinner recently at Hong Kong's glistening cultural center. "This may sound simplistic, but try it: Leave us alone."
Mr. Chan is hardly alone in that view. So when major American magazines began predicting Hong Kong's demise under Chinese rule, he and other members of the city's wealthy elite began inviting journalists from around the world to visit Hong Kong, at the expense of the Better Hong Kong Foundation, to persuade them to paint a more flattering picture. Other executives have begun denouncing the American media, arguing that it is exaggerating the threat to make a better story when China takes the reins.
"The American view of what will happen is wildly out of whack," said Mr. Fung, who heads the Hong Kong Trade and Development Council. "Look, we have a barometer of Hong Kong's future -- the stock market. And investor confidence is very, very high. Who would have guessed that just a few years ago?"
In fact, polling data suggest a huge perception gap between Americans and Hong Kong residents.
A study just released by Wirthlin Worldwide, a political polling group, found that 60 percent of Americans polled believe that the people of Hong Kong would choose to become independent, but only 14 percent of the Hong Kong respondents agreed. A scant 4 percent of Americans thought Hong Kong would choose to become part of China, while 62 percent of Hong Kong residents thought their fellow citizens would elect Chinese rule. The margin of sampling error in the poll was 4.9 percent.
The poll numbers understate the concerns in places like the soda-can-strewn offices of the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions, on the third floor of a neighborhood of bars and brothels where tourists rarely tread.
There, elderly men who mix cement on the edge of Hong Kong harbor and drivers who deliver Coca-Cola say their links to the United States are their best protection after July 1. In April, just a day after Hong Kong's government-in-waiting announced new restrictions on political demonstrations to go into effect within hours of the turnover, a dozen or so of these workers met with John Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
"Political activity is how we fight for workers' rights," Lee Cheuk Yan, the general secretary of the federation told the visiting American labor chief. "Is a strike over wages a 'political activity?' "
When the American union leader conveyed those concerns the next day to Mr. Tung, Hong Kong's future leader offered assurances that unions would not be affected by bans on political actions. But after Mr. Sweeney launched into a brief monologue on why Hong Kong must observe basic rights, Mr. Tung paused for a moment, then remarked, "You're too caring."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; CHINA; GREAT BRITAIN; HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HONG KONG-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS ; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TRENDS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); POLITICS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E ; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) VICTOR FUNG (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%); PRINCE CHARLES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



88 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
France's New Jacket

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
There was a delightful photo the other day showing President Clinton and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain laughing together in London. Here's a secret: I know what they were laughing about. They were laughing about France.
You see, what Mr. Clinton and Mr. Blair truly have in common is the same tailor. They have both been fitted for the golden straitjacket. The golden straitjacket is all the rules set down by global markets for how a country has to behave economically if it wants to thrive in today's world. What happens when your country puts on the golden straitjacket is that its economy expands and its politics shrinks. That is, growth rises, unemployment falls and political choices on all big issues -- welfare, interest rates, government spending -- contract to the narrow limits set by the markets. 
 What Mr. Clinton and Mr. Blair have in common is that they are comfortable in this straitjacket. They have learned how to loosen it at the waist a little, and in doing so have made it, for the moment, a political winner. The reason they are laughing at France is because the French actually seem to think they can avoid this golden straitjacket and still enjoy the best of all worlds. They actually believe that they can still be a world power and have their truck drivers retire at 55 with nearly full pay, work a 35-hour week, take six-week summer holidays and close their shops for two hours every afternoon.
That must be a real knee-slapper to Mr. Clinton and Mr. Blair. If they could speak frankly to the new French Prime Minister, the Socialist Lionel Jospin, they would tell him this:
"Get real, Lionel. During the cold war you could have all these cushy social benefits and still be a great power, because your greatness came cheap. You got it by puffing yourself up, building a few nuclear weapons and playing off the United States and the U.S.S.R. That world is gone.
"In today's world greatness is not defined by where you are but by what you are. As they say, we've gone from a world where the big eat the small to a world where the fast eat the slow, and France can only be great now if it's also fast. You can't be fast and work only 35 hours a week or retire at 55. You cannot maintain that life style and still be a global power. Because you can't maintain that life style and also do the budget cuts, benefit cuts and privatization of state industries required to join the common European currency.
"And we all know that the common currency is your key to remaining a great power, because a common currency is what would keep you tied to Germany and make the European Union a real global economic player. And since your strategy is to use your relationship with Germany and your dominance of the E.U. to maintain your 'greatness' in the post-cold-war world, you need that common currency. But you have to pay for that. So take your choice: You can be great, or you can have a great life style (for a little while longer). But you can't have both.
"Now Lionel, the golden straitjacket comes in only one size, and you're too fat. We're also laughing because we had Margaret Thatcher and Alan Greenspan to put our countries on a diet of downsizing. They took the flak and now we're reaping the benefits. We're betting that the golden straitjacket will continue to produce enough growth, so that we can keep loosening it, so that those hardest hit won't be too pinched, so that there won't be a political backlash. That's our strategy."
The truth is France has no realistic alternative to the golden straitjacket, and the markets will soon hammer home that reality. Still, there is something appealing about the French struggle to maintain their life style and to resist the constraints, and one-size-fits-all sterility, of the golden straitjacket. It's Don Quixote versus the bond market. You've got to admire it.
Bill and Tony have pretty well given up that fight. They have confined themselves to the politics of the straitjacket, leaving little room to pursue the traditional social justice planks of their parties. If the golden straitjacket continues to grow, so might their political horizons again. If it doesn't grow, their politics will remain shrunken and they will have plenty of time on their hands. Indeed, they will be the only two men free to work a 30-hour week, with two hours off for lunch, without anyone noticing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (83%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); EURO (74%); COLD WAR (74%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); TRENDS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); WORK WEEK (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); TRUCK DRIVERS (65%); CURRENCIES (62%); BUDGET CUTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (91%); TONY BLAIR (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



89 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: An Agreeable City Council

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:
In the partisan hallways of Albany or Washington, the swiftness and hearty handshakes with which the City Council endorsed Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's election-year budget last night would have been unimaginable.
The 51-member Council, after all, is 88 percent Democratic, and though it was able to add several important initiatives to the budget, its leaders essentially signed off on the spending blueprint the Republican Mayor devised earlier this year to help him win re-election. 
 The Council's agreeability has allowed the city to avoid the kind of bitter stalemates that have for years made Albany's budget process utterly dysfunctional. But by agreeing to his prosperity budget this year, just as they did in the three previous years of attrition, Council members left the Democratic candidates for mayor with little room to criticize the Mayor's spending priorities. How bad can his budgets have been, Mr. Giuliani might argue, if the Democrats on the Council approved them without serious rancor year after year?
If Ruth W. Messinger or the other mayoral candidates were hoping for a last-minute blast of helpful partisanship from the Council this year, they were dealing with the wrong institution. Unlike their New York State counterparts, Council members show no inclination to bloody the Mayor for political purposes at the expense of a pragmatic budget agreement.
For one thing, the Council leadership is probably closer ideologically to the Republican Mayor than to his Democratic rivals. And the extra spending Mr. Giuliani has included in his budget appeals to Council members both for philosophical and political reasons.
The Council leaders say they are simply doing their jobs. "You have to be responsible, and the price of good government is you have to take some lumps from the partisans," said Kevin McCabe, chief of staff to the Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, and a principal budget negotiator. "Some people use budgets as political weapons; others use them as a governmental tool."
The Council, even in its somewhat invigorated incarnation under the revised City Charter, has never been a terribly effective political spearhead, partly because the provision of city services does not lend itself quite as easily to the partisan philosophical debate that occurs at the state and national level and partly because the Council has shown little interest in using the tools at its disposal to fundamentally rewrite the Mayor's budget. Mr. Giuliani may have been striving to burnish his image by spending hundreds of millions on new education programs in this year's budget, but the Council was hardly in a position to object.
"We agree with those things," said Herbert E. Berman, chairman of the Council Finance Committee and a Brooklyn Democrat. "If he's doing the right thing, are we supposed to say, 'Mr. Mayor, we don't want you to do it'? If it's the right thing to do, it's the right thing to do."
Ms. Messinger, the leading Democratic candidate, issued a short statement simply saying the Council had forced the Mayor to face up to the city's troubled economy. But another mayoral candidate, Councilman Sal Albanese, a longtime maverick on budget issues, was far more critical. As one of the very few members to have voted against each of the Mayor's budgets in the years of cutbacks, he said he saw no reason to change his pattern this year simply because more money was available.
"The surplus gives us a great opportunity to say we have a different vision for the city than Giuliani," he said. "Yet the Council is continuing to do what it normally does, which is basically adopting the agenda of the Mayor. It would be better for the Council to assert themselves and come up with a better set of priorities."
There has never been any great love between the Council leadership and Ms. Messinger, Mr. Albanese or the third Democratic hopeful, the Rev. Al Sharpton, and the Council clearly sees no particular need to go out of its way to assist them. The centrist Mr. Vallone, in fact, has always been closer in ideology to Mr. Giuliani than to any of the candidates running against him.
Ms. Messinger, whose uncomfortable position in the polls has already led to comparisons with Bob Dole, is in essence being treated by the Council much as Mr. Dole was treated by the Republican Congress last September when lawmakers passed an immigration bill favored by President Clinton. Mr. Dole had hoped that a stronger bill would draw a presidential veto that he could exploit for political purposes, but the Republicans decided they actually liked the President's version because it served their own needs.
Similarly, Council members are pleased they were able to get the Mayor to agree to several of their own proposals, including restoring about $180 million that Mr. Giuliani had said he intended to cut from various programs. The Council had neither the power nor the inclination to go much further.
"So far since we got power in 1989, every year has been what's best for the city, not what's best for elected officials," Mr. Vallone said. "Whether it's a Republican mayor or a Democratic mayor, that never had anything to do with our negotiations."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CITY COUNCILS; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); MAYORS (93%); BUDGETS (93%); CITIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MESSINGER, RUTH W (BORO PRES); SHARPTON, AL (REV); ALBANESE, SAL F (COUNCILMAN) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); AL SHARPTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



90 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Lift Education Standards, and Wages Will Rise;
Displacing Ignorance

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Thomas Geoghegan ("Overeducated and Underpaid," Op-Ed, June 3) may be correct about college graduates being underpaid, but "overeducated"? 
 Never! Mr. Geoghegan does a disservice to everyone by looking at education solely in economic terms. Education does and should have purposes, such as raising the general level of knowledge and tastes -- what traditionally is known as the displacement of ignorance. Maybe next time he will write about the non-economic benefits of education at all levels.
 
JAMES A. BLESSING
Selinsgrove, Pa., June 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: BLESSING, JAMES A; GEOGHEGAN, THOMAS

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



91 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: In an Election Year, Giuliani Negotiates Budget Deal Easily

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
Making use of a record surplus generated by Wall Street profits, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and City Council leaders agreed last night on a $33.4 billion budget that tempers the stringent measures that had led to a steady retrenchment in the size of the municipal government for most of the decade.
Five months before he faces re-election, the Republican Mayor came to terms with leaders of the Democratic-controlled Council with relative ease, avoiding the wrangling that marked the annual budget negotiations earlier in his term. 
 Both sides seemed relieved that there was less pressure to reduce services this year, largely because tax revenues from bountiful earnings in the securities industry are patching holes in the spending plan.
Mr. Giuliani is sure to contend during the campaign that the lack of discord in the bargaining with the Council -- as well as the absence of other budgetary traumas in recent months -- is evidence that he has brought stability to the city's finances.
The embrace of the Mayor's budget by the overwhelmingly Democratic Council might also discourage Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President and the likely Democratic nominee, from attacking the plan. The Mayor can defend himself from criticism of his fiscal stewardship by Ms. Messinger by asserting that the Council endorsed his spending priorities in agreeing on the budget.
Ever since the last recession hit the city in 1989, the municipal government has repeatedly had to grapple with budget gaps that were closed mostly by raising taxes, cutting services or engaging in questionable fiscal maneuvers. But as the local economy has improved in the last year, it has become less arduous to put together the budget.
"This is probably the budget with the least amount of risk that we've seen in a very long time," Mr. Giuliani said at a news conference at 10:45 P.M. He later added, "This budget benefits greatly from tremendous increased revenues."
The city's fiscal problems are by no means over. Even though Mr. Giuliani has slowed the growth of city spending by nearly $3 billion since he took office, the city's expenditures continue to rise faster than its revenues. As a result, the Mayor's budget aides forecast annual shortfalls that will increase to nearly $3 billion by 2001.
And though the new budget will contain less pain than its recent predecessors, the Mayor and the Council are not restoring most of the services that they decided to cut in previous years.
The agreement last night follows the framework of the budget that Mr. Giuliani proposed last month, though the Council leaders extracted some concessions. The Giuliani administration, for example, had projected the city's budget surplus in the 1997 fiscal year, which ends on June 30, at $856 million. As part of the deal, the Mayor accepted the Council's figure of $1.3 billion for the surplus.
Some of the extra money is to be set aside in a $500 million pool for financial emergencies, an idea that Peter F. Vallone, the Council Speaker, has championed. Mr. Vallone had called for the statutory creation of a so-called rainy day fund, but that would require approval by Albany, and was opposed by Mr. Giuliani and other city officials, who said it was not allowed under the city's accounting rules.
The two sides instead agreed to set up an informal pool of money in the budget.
Mr. Giuliani allowed the Council to add $180 million in spending for a range of programs, including money for cultural institutions, libraries, foster care, youth programs, parks and health clinics.
Overall spending would increase by more than 3 percent -- or more than $1 billion -- the largest increase since Mr. Giuliani took office. Taxes would be cut by $319 million, about half of which would come from the elimination of the city's 4 percent sales tax on clothing items under $500.
The agreement still requires the approval of the full 51-member Council, but in practice that is a formality because Mr. Vallone, a Queens Democrat, wields tight control over the Democratic majority. But approval by Gov. George E. Pataki and the State Legislature is also required for nearly all of the tax cuts to become law, and that is by no means assured.
The Council leaders backed several proposals from Mr. Giuliani to increase spending on education, an area that his Democratic mayoral opponents have charged he has neglected during this term. The Mayor called in his budget for the city to give more than $170 million in new money to the Board of Education from the city's operating budget, and close to $1 billion over the next few years from the separate capital budget to buy computers, renovate schools and build temporary classrooms.
In the budget that he proposed last month, the Mayor called for $660 million in spending cuts, spread across the majority of city agencies. Council leaders said most of those reductions would not have a direct impact on services, adding that the money they persuaded Mr. Giuliani to add to the budget would scale back any service cuts.
Under the agreement reached last night, the city will probably trim spending on programs by between $400 million and $500 million -- instead of the $660 million -- even as spending is added to other programs, officials said. That figure is less than any of the annual cuts in the first three years of Mr. Giuliani's tenure.
Among the Council proposals that Mr. Giuliani adopted was one to create a $30 million fund to provide loans and grants to spur the creation of jobs in emerging industries. The Mayor also backed the Council's plan for cutting the unincorporated business tax, a tax on the earnings of small businesses, by $75 million.
Though the budget comes to $33.4 billion, the actual amount of spending for the next fiscal year is greater. The difference stems largely from the way the city must account for the surplus from the current fiscal year. The city is essentially using the surplus to pay for some of next year's expenses this year, but the money is counted under this year's budget, not next year's.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Peter Vallone, the City Council Speaker, announce a budget agreement that draws on an improved economy and adds spending for education and cultural institutions. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; SALES TAX; APPAREL; ELECTION ISSUES; MAYORS; ELECTIONS BUDGETS (96%); CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); CITIES (91%); MAYORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES TAX (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TAX INCREASES (74%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997



92 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: On Stage, and Off

BYLINE: By William Grimes 

 BODY:

First, Thanks Go to Rosie O'Donnell
The Nielsen ratings for the Tony Awards were dandy. But what about the show? It had a lot to prove this time around. Last year at this time, Gary Smith, the show's executive producer, was reeling after the show not only pulled abysmal ratings but also was being roundly criticized as one of the worst productions in Tony history. Some of the Broadway unions were even threatening to create their own show.
Broadway is singing a different tune this week. "I thought it was the best ever, and I've been the first to get on Gary Smith's case in the past," said Rocco Landesman, the president of Jujamcyn Theaters. "The acceptance speeches were relaxed and genuine, and the extra hour from PBS was a godsend." 
 Alan Eisenberg, the executive secretary of Actors Equity, complained loud and long last year about the way award winners were whisked off the stage. This year, he's happy. "I've had a lot of conversations, and everybody had a positive reaction," he said. "This is one of the best Tonys I've been to in years."
Mr. Smith, after his tar and feathering last year, sounds like a man with a new lease on life. Two factors spelled the difference this year, he said, Rosie O'Donnell, and, just as important, PBS. "In the past, the acceptance speeches and the Broadway material were sacrificed," he said. "You don't have to be a rocket scientist to realize that if you have 22 awards to give out and two hours to do it in, something's got to give."
There were two Rosies on view Sunday night. The television audience got one, a restrained and, some thought, rather nervous version of the full-tilt comedian in charge of her talk show. During commercial breaks, the Radio City audience got Rosie unchained, ad-libbing and slipping in some risque material just before the cameras got rolling again. Sorry, it can't be printed in a family newspaper. "Rosie was very economical," said Mr. Smith. "That was her choice. She did not want to do extensive comic material, just short introductions."
The Broadway consensus on the show? Signing up Ms. O'Donnell and moving the show to Radio City paid huge dividends, despite the objections of the mostly older citizens of the theater world who hated this year's concept.
"Rosie hosting the show was a way for us to get a foot in the door of American popular culture," said Bill Evans, a press agent. "It was the most exciting exposure Broadway has had in the mass media in the 25 years I've been in the business."
Some grumbling can still be heard. "You should not have a show about the theater that is broadcast from Radio City and has a television star as host," said one producer, who spoke on condition of anonymity. With the ratings success of this year's program, a surprising number of normally talkative naysayers have suddenly clammed up.
"One minute into the show, and I don't think it made the slightest difference to anybody, other than a few theater operators, that it was in Radio City," Mr. Landesman said.
 
Broadway Sales Are Up 15 Percent
 The numbers are in. No, not the Tony ratings, the final box-office and attendance figures for the 1996-97 season, which ended Sunday. Broadway theaters took in the most money ever for a single season, $499 million, a jump of 15 percent over last year's total of $436 million. Attendance was 10.5 million, up 12 percent from last year's total of 9.4 million. That figure was exceeded only in the 1980-81 season, when 11 million people attended Broadway shows in a season with 50 new productions, compared with 38 last year.
The road business dipped after five years of strong growth, dampened by the collapse of several major tours, notably "Applause" and "Sunset Boulevard." Outside New York, members of the League of American Theaters and Producers reported $782 million in ticket sales, down from $810 million last season, and a total audience of 17.6 million, down from 18.1 million.
 
Like Minds for Comedy
 Audiences get Nancy Opel sliced three ways in David Ives's "Mere Mortals and Others," a buffet table of one-act plays at Primary Stages. In "Foreplay, or the Art of the Fugue," she steps onto the Lilliput Lane miniature golf course, putter in hand, playing half (or is it one-sixth?) of a competitive couple, presented contrapuntally as three couples. That's the appetizer. For the pasta course, "Speed-the-Play," she gets real loud and real crass as the referee of the Joliet, Ill., Men's Club, gathered to perform a condensed version of the David Mamet oeuvre.
The main course, "Dr. Fritz," is the piece de resistance, a loony synthesis of Kafka and Abbott and Costello. Ms. Opel, smiling insanely as she knits thin air with two clacking needles, slyly torments a desperately ill man with the possibility that she might be Dr. Fritz, the surgeon he desperately needs.
Mr. Ives wrote the piece for Ms. Opel, who has become a mainstay of his ever since she appeared in his one-act play "Sure Thing" at Manhattan Punchline in 1986. "We're of like minds in terms of comedy," she said. "He has a very musical style of writing, and I think I can understand it." Ms. Opel grew up in Kansas City, Mo., studied drama at Juilliard and stepped right into the lead of "Evita" at 22 after sailing through an audition without bothering to study the music. "I was just a little fool," she said. "I didn't know anything." She later appeared on Broadway in "Sunday in the Park With George" and "Anything Goes." Off Broadway, Ms. Opel has been an Ives standby, appearing in his "Don Juan in Chicago" and "All in the Timing." "We've done a lot of 'let's sit around the table and see what we've got here,' " she said. "He calls on me a lot for that. The characters just sort of come out."
 
Footlights
 *The McCarter Theater in Princeton will present the American premiere of a new play by Athol Fugard at the end of next season. "The Captain's Tiger," which will have its world premiere in South Africa in the fall, retells Mr. Fugard's adventures as a young writer aboard a tramp steamer in the South Pacific.
*On June 27, "Forbidden Broadway Strikes Back!" moves within striking range of its victims when it relocates to the new Stardust Theater, on Broadway at 51st Street, right next to "Cats." Gerard Alessandrini has added new material that gives his very special welcome to "Annie," "Chicago" and "Jekyll and Hyde."
*The revival of George Bernard Shaw's "Misalliance" at the Laura Pels Theater at the Roundabout has enlisted the services of Brian Murray, Alan Tudyk, Elizabeth Marvel and Joanna Going in the lead roles. Performances begin July 18.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A David Ives favorite: Nancy Opel in "Mere Mortals and Others" at Primary Stages. (James Leyuse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; TONY AWARDS (THEATER AWARDS); TELEVISION; RADIO CITY MUSIC HALL (NYC); NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); THEATER (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); MUSIC (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); FAMILY (65%); 

PERSON: O'DONNELL, ROSIE; GRIMES, WILLIAM ROSIE O'DONNELL (93%); GARY A SMITH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



93 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Platinum Prices Rise Sharply As Talks on Exports Continue

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Platinum futures surged yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange as a halt in Russian platinum and palladium exports continued to leave supplies scarce.
Russian exports of platinum and palladium have been suspended since December. While they could resume in late June, there have been signs of delays as Japanese trading companies continued to negotiate with Russian sellers this week in Tokyo. 
 Traders, meanwhile, said they had stopped quoting lease rates for palladium -- the interest rate charged for borrowing the metal -- because spare supplies were also scarce.
"There's just none of it around," said Marty McNeill, a precious metals trader at Sinclair Group in New York. "The Russians have the metal in the ground, but there's very little of it available."
Platinum for delivery in July rose $25, to $436.60 an ounce, the highest price for a most-active contract since Sept. 19, 1995. September palladium rose 35 cents, to $173.15 an ounce, while the less active June contract, which expires the end of the month, fell $2.65, to $200.15 an ounce.
On Tuesday, the Nichimen Corporation, a Japanese trading house, said it would buy about 4.2 metric tons of Russian palladium and 1.2 metric tons of platinum. A metric ton is 1.1 short tons. Those shipments will begin in July, a precious metals dealer at Nichimen said.
Nichimen is among the Japanese trading and auto companies holding talks this week with officials from the Russian Finance Ministry and Almaz, Russia's official export agency. Japan is the largest consumer of the metals, which are used in automobiles and computers.
But on Wednesday, the Reuters news service cited unidentified precious metals traders in Tokyo as saying that Almaz had not yet secured the export licenses it needs.
Almaz said it expected to obtain those licenses by the end of this week, with the first deliveries of metal from Russia expected about June 20.
Doug Upton, head of commodities at HSBC James Capel in London, said the lack of licenses was a concern to the precious metals market. "Without the licenses, they can't start selling," he said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 2768 (TSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424410 GENERAL LINE GROCERY MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS423860 TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (EXCEPT MOTOR VEHICLE) MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS325212 SYNTHETIC RUBBER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (85%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (85%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (85%); SIC5088 TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES, EXCEPT MOTOR VEHICLES (85%); SIC2822 SYNTHETIC RUBBER (85%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (85%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (85%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); JAPAN (88%); UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE SOJITZ CORP (85%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); JAPAN (88%); UNITED STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: PLATINUM; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PALLADIUM (METAL); SHORTAGES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PLATINUM MARKETS (94%); FUTURES (93%); PALLADIUM MARKETS (92%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



94 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: Rent Regulations Fuel Housing Court Chaos

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The economic benefits of vacancy decontrol already exist for landlords in two regulations that allow market rents to be charged for vacated units: "first rent" increase, whenever any rent-controlled apartment turns over to rent stabilization, and the "1/40th" increase when a stabilized unit is renovated (news article, June 3). Vacancy decontrol should be taken off the table so that negotiations on other issues, like luxury decontrol and succession rights, can proceed.
 
THOMAS LIGON
New York, June 3, 1997
 
 
NO MORE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENT CONTROL; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; RENTING AND LEASING RENT CONTROL (96%); RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); DEREGULATION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: LIGON, THOMAS CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



95 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Rates Drop

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5

 BODY:
Average interest rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages fell this week to the lowest level since March. The average decreased to 7.85 percent from 7.94 percent a week earlier, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation said today. It was the lowest rate since the week ended March 13, two weeks before the Federal Reserve tightened monetary policy. Fifteen-year mortgages averaged 7.40 percent this week, down from 7.47 percent a week earlier. On one-year adjustable-rate mortgages, lenders were asking an average initial rate of 5.78 percent this week, down from 5.83 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; INTEREST RATES; MORTGAGES ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MONETARY POLICY (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



96 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Lower Against the Yen On Hints of Japanese Vitality

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell against the yen yesterday on hints that Japan's economy is strengthening, but it had more modest losses in other foreign-exchange dealings, a day before the scheduled release of May unemployment data in the United States.
There was relatively little movement in the currency market before today's release of the Labor Department report, which could provide clues to the Federal Reserve's next move on interest rates. 
 Traders said that if the data showed a continuation of healthy job growth in the American economy, the dollar was likely to strengthen, particularly against currencies in Europe where economic weakness and uncertainty over plans for monetary union have been pushing the dollar higher since last week.
"The dollar is still on very firm footing," said Stephen Flanagan, vice president for foreign exchange at Credit Agricole Indosuez in New York. "We didn't go up today, but we are not going down either. There's still a continual demand for dollars, with the backdrop of the European situation."
In New York late yesterday, the dollar settled at 115.72 yen, down from 116.25 yen on Wednesday. The dollar slipped to 1.7288 German marks from 1.7292 marks. The British pound rose to $1.6351 from $1.6324.
The yen's value increased in Asian trading after the governor of the Japanese central bank, Yasuo Matsushita, said that "a pre-emptive monetary policy is desirable."
Traders interpreted his remark as a sign that interest rates in Japan, at record lows since September 1995, could start to rise even before emphatic evidence of economic expansion there became obvious. Rising rates in Japan would increase the value of yen-denominated assets.
The yen gained further support from Japanese Government data showing that household spending in April declined only 1 percent from a year earlier despite a tax increase on April 1. Currency traders viewed this as a sign suggesting that Japan's economy is resilient.
"The feeling was that Japanese consumer spending was dead after the tax hike," said Bob Near, vice president for foreign exchange at the Bank of New York. "The market was looking for a bigger decline."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (73%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT AGRICOLE INDOSUEZ (91%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (73%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); GERMAN MARK (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); TAX INCREASES (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); BRITISH POUND (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



97 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The Island of Dreams

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
Come with me to the island of dreams fulfilled, to the oasis of idealism in the sands of the city.
Is this the place? This expanse of cement plaza in Upper Manhattan is supposed to be a dream paradise or some kind of cockamamie oasis? 
 Yes, and you can see it every day. Young people rush across the plaza to classes. They can do that because 150 years ago New York decided youngsters without money deserved a chance to go to college, and reap the intellectual and economic rewards.
Almost a million young New Yorkers have earned degrees in the 10 senior colleges opened to them by that decision. Few could even imagine affording college otherwise.
Conjure up the city without the gifts they returned -- Jonas Salk's polio vaccine, the discoveries of eight Nobel winners, Paddy Chayefsky's plays, Oscar Hijuelo's lovely novels, the enterprise of thousands of top business executives; a drearier, poorer city, spiceless. And what about Colin Powell and Edward G. Robinson?
If you had been with me on Tuesday morning, in this plaza in the oldest and best known of those colleges, City College, you would never have asked. You would have seen 2,500 men and women sit in drizzle and chill, aware only that they were to fulfill their dream. Fourteen hundred got baccalaureate degrees, and 1,100 graduate degrees -- in science, arts, education, engineering, computer science.
For years in high school, they worried -- am I good enough to get into C.C.N.Y.? If I do, will I be strong enough in willpower and body to go to classes every day, work mornings or at night to keep myself alive and help my family and return to the library until midnight, for the studying I still have to do? If I am, some year in June will my parents be here to see?
You would have heard these young people take the same "oath of devotion" to their city that the youngsters of Athens took to theirs. They promised to transmit a New York greater, better and more beautiful than had been handed to them. They will.
You would have seen that most of them were black, Hispanic or Asian -- maybe 10 percent white. I will tell you a story.
When I was a student at City, youngsters from all over the city took the subway to a station in Harlem -- boys only, girls had not been invented. We walked six or seven blocks through Harlem to 138th Street and Convent Avenue. On the way, we saw only black people.
In our classrooms, we saw no black students or so few that I can't remember any. What I do remember is the conversation and thought that we, our teachers and City Hall put into the absence of blacks: none. Never came up.
Well, they couldn't make it in, right? Right. The academic entry requirements were too high. So New York faced a choice: keep minority students out for the years it would take to redo the dreadful high school system, or the many decades to solve the problems of parentless families, drugs, crime and joblessness that throttled the youngsters -- or lower the standards and say come in.
In 1969, the city chose "open admissions" and lowered entry requirements for the senior colleges. They made them too low then, I think. And I believe the remedial work so many bright minority students and immigrants need should be taken away from high schools that can't do the job, their budgets docked and the money and responsibility given to remedial private schools -- before entry into college.
Shockingly, some of the six two-year community colleges have allowed students to graduate without passing a simple English test. But that fuss has nothing to do with the requirements at the 10 four-year senior colleges.
At those colleges, entry requirements have been raised and remedial classes reduced. Meanwhile more better-prepared students are entering. Achievers, many inspired by the very fact of being in the college, are doing what achievers do: reach and grasp.
If any New Yorkers who had been in the plaza that morning, seen the light in the face of the graduates and heard their pledges did not understand that they had fulfilled the dream of their lives, and what these young people had accomplished for themselves, the city and American idealism, or did not want to kiss them, then they died last week and somebody should tell them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK

ORGANIZATION: CITY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BLACKS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); ADMISSIONS STANDARDS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (65%); VACCINES (55%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M SIDNEY 'PADDY' CHAYEFSKY (56%); COLIN POWELL (56%); JONAS EDWARD SALK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



98 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Flat Ahead of Labor Data

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities remained flat yesterday as investors waited for today's release of the employment report for May to see how much strength the economy is exhibiting, an important clue as to whether the Fed will raise interest rates again.
Market participants mostly shrugged off a report of sluggish chain store sales for May and the latest week's surprising jump in weekly initial jobless claims. The number of claims for state unemployment insurance rose 19,000, in contrast to expectations of a decline of 2,000. 
 "The Fed can still claim that tight labor market conditions do not necessarily imply faster C.P.I. growth," said Rick MacDonald, an economist with MMS International, San Francisco, "but another month of solid employment growth and accelerating wages should provide evidence that inflation risk remains to the high side."
The 30-year bond was unchanged from Wednesday at a price of 96 26/32 to yield 6.88 percent.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said, "The issue of whether or not the Fed will tighten monetary policy at the F.O.M.C. meeting on July 2 is very much alive, despite early statistical suggestions of a noticeably more subdued pace of G.D.P. growth in the second quarter and continuing favorable and nonthreatening inflation data.
Mr. Fine said both the extent and duration of the currently softer pace of economic activity were still open to question, and some recently released data, namely the purchasing managers' index on Monday and factory orders on Wednesday, had already begun to raise serious concerns.
"Broadly speaking," Mr. Fine said, "the economy's strong underpinnings and tight labor markets seem to be pointing to another round of Fed tightening." However, he added, the Fed may be a bit more pro-growth than previously thought so may not act until the evidence is clear-cut. Further, he noted, Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, "must deliver his Humphrey-Hawkins testimony shortly after this upcoming F.O.M.C. meeting, and would likely prefer not to incur the wrath of Congress unless the economic evidence for a less accommodative stance was compelling."
Today's labor statistics, Mr. Fine said, should provide a great deal of information about employment, wage pressures, the degree of labor tightness and overall economic conditions during the second quarter. Market expectations for the change in nonfarm payrolls vary widely, but a consensus seems to be forming for a gain of about 225,000, higher than in the last two months, and for a jump of four-tenths of a percent in average hourly earnings. Mr. Fine said the unemployment rate might grow, given its surprising drop last month to 4.9 percent, the lowest in nearly a quarter of a century.
"While virtually all forecasters are expecting it to either remain unchanged or move back up to 5 percent or even a touch higher," Mr. Fine said, "the fact remains that a further drop of any degree would unnerve the bond market, and give the Fed apoplexy."
Elsewhere in the credit markets, municipal bonds were little changed with few new issues offered. Only about $250 million of new muni issues were set for yesterday, with about $2.5 billion in new issues set for the week. Analysts report that the lack of supply has pushed up muni prices and with no real supply in sight, they say prices are likely to stay rich.
The Bond Buyer measure of visible supply of bonds over the next 30 days shows about $4.05 billion of bonds, compared with $6.1 billion a year ago.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, from Feb. thru June. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); STATISTICS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); EVIDENCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



99 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Then And Now

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
From the steps where George C. Marshall stood 50 years ago, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright spoke to Harvard and the country about America's continuing responsibility in the world. It was a brave speech and a compelling one. But it had an effect that Ms. Albright surely did not intend: to underline the difference between our political leaders then and now, the difference between strength and weakness.
In 1947 Secretary of State Marshall's call for U.S. aid to a shattered Europe went to "an American people weary of war and wary of new commitments," Ms. Albright said. Moreover, a Democratic Administration faced a hostile Republican Congress. 
 But President Truman was not daunted by those obstacles. He took the Marshall Plan to European governments and to Congress. He fought for it. And he won, enlisting this country in the century's greatest constructive act of statesmanship.
Today there are new dangers that we must face, Secretary Albright said. At the head of her list was "ethnic conflict." She spelled out in powerful terms how the genocidal conflict in the former Yugoslavia menaces a civilized world.
"We can summon the same spirit" as Marshall's to deal with the new dangers, she said. "We, too, must heed the lessons of the past, accept responsibility and lead."
But two Presidents have faced that test and failed it. George Bush and Bill Clinton were confronted by this generation's challenge of ethnic conflict, and ran from the responsibility of American leadership.
In the fall of 1991 Serbian forces began shelling Croatian cities: lawless attacks on civilian targets. Months later the Serbs launched their campaign of mass murder and expulsion in Bosnia. "Men and women like you and me," Secretary Albright said, "were abused or murdered not because of anything they had done but simply for who they were."
What did President Bush do about that savagery on the continent where American forces had been posted for 40 years to keep the peace? He averted his gaze. He left it to Europeans to meet the challenge, knowing as he must have known that they would not act effectively without American leadership.
Just imagine that Harry Truman had been in the White House in 1991. Can anyone doubt what he would have done? He would have responded to the Serbian aggression immediately and with all the strength required, as he responded to economic collapse in Europe and to a Communist threat in Greece.
President Clinton came to office in 1993 with a promise to act more vigorously against the aggressors in Bosnia. But if that was his conviction, he did not have the courage to carry it out. Only after years of further slaughter, coming to a climax with the Serbian mass murders in Srebrenica, was he shamed into moving decisively. The result was the Dayton peace accords.
Secretary Albright spelled out in unflinching terms the need for all parties in the former Yugoslavia to carry out their Dayton obligations -- as she had just done on the ground, speaking with tough candor to the leaders of Croatia and Serbia. She emphasized the need for "full cooperation with the International War Crimes Tribunal."
"That tribunal represents a choice not only for Bosnia and for Rwanda," she said, "but for the world. . . . We can presume to forget what only God and the victims have standing to forgive, or we can heed the most searing lesson of this century, which is that evil -- when unopposed -- will spawn more evil."
There was a special quality to Ms. Albright's words and presence: a woman who came to this country as a refugee standing in George Marshall's place. Only in America. "I know I'm not George Marshall," she said the evening before her speech. "But I also know that like him I want America to lead."
But great American ventures depend on Presidential leadership. Its absence was the reason for the tragic failure to meet the Yugoslav crisis, and again for the failure at the end of 1991 and after to give substantial help to Russia in constructing a new economy.
America's role, Secretary Albright said, is to be a "pathfinder -- the nation able to show the way when others cannot." It is an important truth. What a difference it would make to the world if the Presidents of our time understood and acted on it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); CROATIA (79%); GREECE (57%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); MARSHALL PLAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); MARSHALL PLAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); CROATIA (79%); GREECE (57%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); MARSHALL, GEORGE (1880-1959); LEWIS, ANTHONY GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



100 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Fritz Leutwiler, 72, Banker; Revamped Currency System

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
Fritz Leutwiler, a Swiss central banker who played an important role as the system of floating currency rates was put into place, died May 29 in Zumikon, Switzerland, where he lived. He was 72.
The cause of death was cancer, a spokesman for the Swiss central bank said. 
 Mr. Leutwiler joined the central bank, the Swiss National Bank, in 1952 and worked in its economics and statistics department. He became the bank's president in 1974 and served for a decade, endowing the job with wide influence in Swiss political and financial life.
Mr. Leutwiler presided over the bank during a period of exceptional monetary turmoil as the world slowly adjusted to the inevitability of floating exchange rates.
As Swiss National Bank president, and after 1982 as head of the secretive Bank for International Settlements, the central bank for central bankers, Mr. Leutwiler played a constructive role in managing the world's currency upheavals while faced with conflicting monetary philosophies.
In Switzerland, opinion remained conservative in its support for fixed currency values and their ultimate convertibility into gold. But the United States was pressing for a looser system that would allow currencies to fluctuate on markets according to the perceived strength of their underlying economies.
And even France, while officially espousing the merits of fixed rates, was secretly negotiating with Washington on an amendment to the International Monetary Fund's statutes that would legitimize floating exchange rates.
Amid this turmoil, Mr Leutwiler kept a low profile but worked constantly to contain monetary crises and promote stability in international financial affairs. He sensed that the political wind was blowing against those who favored a return to fixed exchange rates and that the world's economic health now required a more flexible and pragmatic monetary system.
Thus, under his direction, the Swiss National Bank played a leading role in mobilizing a $30 billion war chest to defend the dollar in 1978. And in 1982 as head of the Bank for International Settlements as well as the Swiss bank, Mr. Leutwiler helped the United States Treasury assemble a $1.8 billion package of credits to shore up the Mexican peso at the start of what was to become a debt crisis in Latin America.
In his monetary history of these years, "Changing Fortunes," a former chairman of the Federal Reserve, Paul A. Volcker, said that at the time of the Mexican bailout, Mr. Leutwiler, along with the governor of the Bank of England, Gordon Richardson, "instinctively understood what was at stake."
Mr. Leutwiler was also instrumental in arranging emergency credits for countries like Hungary and Brazil when they encountered financial difficulties. As a condition, the countries had to seek long-term arrangements with the International Monetary Fund and commit themselves to corrective austerity programs
In 1985, Mr. Leutwiler became chairman of BBC Brown Boveri A.G. and helped bring about its merger with Asea A.G. of Sweden in 1987 to form ABB Asea Brown Boveri. Mr Leutwiler served as co-chairman of the new company until he retired in 1992.
In the months before his death, Mr. Leutwiler worked with Swiss banks and industry in efforts to set up a fund to compensate Holocaust victims and their families.
Mr. Leutwiler graduated from the University of Zurich with an economics degree four years before he joined the central bank. He worked as editor of a monetary journal and later went to London for training with a Swiss commercial bank.
Mr. Leutwiler is survived by his wife, Andree Leutwiler of Zumikon; a daughter, Sabine Leutwiler of Zurich, and a son, Nicolas Leutwiler.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: SNBN (SWX) (93%); ABJA (FRA) (84%); ABJ (FRA) (84%); ABBN (SWX) (84%); ABB (STO) (84%); ABB (NYSE) (84%); ABB (NSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (84%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (56%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); FRANCE (55%); 

COMPANY: SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (93%); ABB LTD (84%); BBC BROWN BOVERI AG (60%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (56%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (56%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (56%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); FRANCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (99%); CENTRAL BANKS (93%); CURRENCIES (93%); EXCHANGE RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MERGERS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); ENDOWMENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); 

PERSON: LEUTWILER, FRITZ; LEWIS, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



101 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: The Next City Budget Debate

 BODY:
"Mellow" is not a word that normally springs to mind in connection with New York City's Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. But the budget negotiations between the Mayor and the City Council were concluded this week with remarkable ease and serenity. A big pile of money does wonders to improve the political temperament.
Thanks to the continuing stock market boom that generated record Wall Street profits, the city recorded a surplus of more than $1 billion in the current fiscal year. By using much of that money to prepay next year's expenses, the Mayor and Council were able to put together a new spending plan that contains no painful cuts. Bowing to a tradition as ancient and ritualized as Kabuki theater, Mr. Giuliani proposed reductions in money for parks, museums and libraries so the Council could restore them. But outside of the schools, there were no large new spending initiatives. 
 While the Council has always been regarded as the let's-party end of city government, the final deal was more fiscally responsible than Mr. Giuliani's original proposal. It includes a $500 million rainy-day fund championed by Council Speaker Peter Vallone. It reduced the amount of dangerous "one-shot" revenues that would be available in the future. The Financial Control Board estimated that Mr. Giuliani's original budget contained a record $1.9 billion in non-recurring resources. Now the amount is by most estimates well under $1 billion.
Since Mr. Giuliani is running for re-election, this budget will be the last installment in what he promised would be a four-year struggle to put the city on an even keel permanently. Over his term, the Mayor has spent $3 billion less than he would have if the budget had continued to grow at the rate it was when he took office. The city work force is 22,000 heads smaller. The welfare caseload is down by 23 percent.
Yet Mr. Giuliani still has not been able to correct the structural imbalances that keep expenses growing faster than revenues. Since the economy depends far too heavily on the financial district, any serious setback on Wall Street could send New York right back to the miseries it experienced in the late 1980's. New York already faces a projected $2.8 billion budget gap in the year 2000.
The upcoming campaign must therefore include an intelligent argument about how New York can prevent the boom-and-bust cycles it has endured since the 1970's. Mr. Giuliani must explain why he has failed to do so. His opponents must explain how they could do better.
The prescriptions are limited and painful -- a drastic cut in programs, tax hikes or a dramatic change in labor agreements to improve productivity. Mr. Giuliani's own efforts at negotiating labor contracts have had mixed results. He has persuaded the unions to accept wage freezes and modest salary hikes. But he has won very little in the way of changes that would allow the city to manage its work force better, or reduce some of the benefits like extra holidays that workers in the private sector do not enjoy. The teachers' contract contained land mines of concessions that are forcing the Board of Education to hire additional people to perform some of the unionized teachers' old duties.
A fourth solution to New York's unbalanced finances -- additional state and Federal aid -- is the fairest and most desirable. But the Mayor's opponents will have to explain why the public should believe they can do better at extracting money from Albany and Washington than either Mr. Giuliani or his Democratic predecessors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); BUDGETS (93%); MAYORS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); TAX INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



102 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Albright's Words: Global Task for U.S.

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright's commencement address yesterday at Harvard University . Her remarks were transcribed by the Federal News Service, a private transcription agency.
British Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin called the Marshall Plan a "lifeline to sinking men," and it was -- although I expect some women in Europe were equally appreciative. By extending that lifeline, America helped unify Europe's west around democratic principles and planted seeds of trans-Atlantic partnership that would soon blossom in the form of NATO and the cooperative institutions of a new Europe. 
 Just as important was the expression of American leadership that the Marshall Plan conveyed. After world War I, America had withdrawn from the world, shunning responsibility and avoiding risk. Others did the same. The result in the heart of Europe was the rise of great evil. After the devastation of World War II and the soul-withering horror of the Holocaust, it was not enough to say that the enemy had been vanquished -- that what we were against had failed.
The generation of Marshall, Truman and Vandenberg was determined to build a lasting peace. And the message that generation conveyed from the White House, from both parties on Capitol Hill, and from people across our country who donated millions in relief cash, clothing, and food, was that, this time, America would not turn inward, America would lead.
Today, in the wake of the cold war, it is not enough for us to say that Communism has failed. We, too, must heed the lessons of the past, accept responsibility and lead.
Because we are entering a century in which there will be many interconnected centers of population, power, and wealth, we cannot limit our focus, as Marshall did in his speech, to the devastated battleground of a prior war. Our vision must encompass not one, but every continent.
Unlike Marshall's generation, we face no single galvanizing threat. The dangers we confront are less visible and more diverse, some as old as ethnic conflict, some as new as letter bombs, some as subtle as climate change, and some as deadly as nuclear weapons falling into the wrong hands.
To defend against these threats, we must take advantage of the historic opportunity that now exists to bring the world together in an international system based on democracy, open markets, law and a commitment to peace.
We know that not every nation is yet willing or able to play its full part in this system. One group is still in transition from centralized planning and totalitarian rule. Another has only begun to dip its toes into economic and political reform. Some nations are still too weak to participate in a meaningful way. And a few countries have regimes that actively oppose the premises upon which this system is based.
Because the situation we face today is different from that confronted by Marshall's generation, we cannot always use the same means. But we can summon the same spirit.
We can strive for the same sense of bipartisanship that allowed America in Marshall's day to present to both allies and adversaries a united front.
We can invest the resources needed to keep America strong economically, militarily and diplomatically, recognizing, as did Marshall, that these strengths reinforce each other.
We can act with the same knowledge that, in our era, American security and prosperity are linked to economic and political health abroad.
And we can recognize, even as we pay homage to the heroes of history, that we have our own duty to be authors of history.
Let every nation acknowledge: today, the opportunity to be part of an international system based on democratic principles is available to all. This was not the case 50 years ago. . . .
Today, there is no Stalin to give orders. If a nation is isolated from the international community now, it is either because the country is simply too weak to meet international standards or because its leaders have chosen willfully to disregard those standards.
Last week, in the Netherlands, President Clinton said that no democratic nation in Europe would be left out of the trans-Atlantic community. Today, I say that no nation in the world need be left out of the global system we are constructing. And every nation that seeks to participate, and is willing to do all it can to help itself, will have America's help in finding the right path. . . .
As this great university has recognized in the foreign students it has attracted, the research it conducts, the courses it offers and the sensibility it conveys, those of you who have graduated today will live global lives. You will compete in a world marketplace; travel further and more often than any previous generation; share ideas, tastes and experience with counterparts from every culture, and recognize that to have a full and rewarding future, you will have to look outward.
As you do, and as our country does, we must aspire to the high standard set by Marshall, using means adapted to our time based on values that endure for all time, and never forgetting that America belongs on the side of freedom. I say this to you as Secretary of State. I say it also as one of the many people whose lives have been shaped by the turbulence of Europe during the middle of this century and by the leadership of America throughout this century.
I can still remember, in England during the war, sitting in the bomb shelter, singing away the fear, thanking God for American help.
I can still remember, after the war and after the Communist takeover in Prague, arriving here in the United States, where I wanted only to be accepted and to make my parents and my new country proud.
Because my parents fled in time, I escaped Hitler. To our shared and constant sorrow, millions did not.
Because of America's generosity, I escaped Stalin. Millions did not.
Because of the vision of the Truman-Marshall generation, I have been privileged to live my life in freedom. Millions have still never had that opportunity.
It may be hard for you, who have no memory of that time fifty years ago, to understand. But it is necessary that you try to understand. . . .
Today, the greatest danger to America is not some foreign enemy; it is the possibility that we will fail to heed the example of that generation; that we will allow the momentum toward democracy to stall, take for granted the institutions and principles upon which our own freedom is based, and forget what the history of this century reminds us: that problems, if left unattended, will all too often come home to America.
A decade or two from now, we will be known as the neo-isolationists, who allowed tyranny and lawlessness to rise again, or as the generations that solidified the global triumph of democratic principles.
We will be known as the neo-protectionists, whose lack of vision produced financial meltdown, or as the generations that laid the groundwork for rising prosperity around the world.
We will be known as the world-class ditherers, who stood by while the seeds of renewed global conflict were sown, or as the generations that took strong measures to forge alliances, deter aggression and keep the peace.
There is no certain road map for success, either for individuals or for generations. Ultimately, it is a matter of judgment, a question of choice. In making that choice, let us remember that there is not a page of American history of which we are proud that was authored by a chronic complainer or prophet of despair. We are doers.
We have a responsibility in our time, as others have had in theirs, not to be prisoners of history, but to shape history; a responsibility to fill the role of pathfinder, and to build with others a global network of purpose and law that will protect our citizens, defend our interests, preserve our values, and bequeath to future generations a legacy as proud as the one we honor today.
To that mission, I pledge my own best efforts and summon yours.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); MARSHALL PLAN (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); MARSHALL PLAN (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); COLD WAR (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); WORLD WAR II (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); WORLD WAR I (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); HOLOCAUST (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); 

PERSON: ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



103 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Marriott Trying to Buy a Site For Another Times Sq. Hotel

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Marriott International, the largest hotelier in the city, is in negotiations with the Prudential Insurance Company to purchase a development site in Times Square for a 700-room Courtyard hotel, according to real estate sources.
Marriott, which already operates 2,277 rooms at two hotels nearby, has long sought to expand its franchise in the thriving Times Square area where several other hoteliers are also seeking to build. The proposed hotel would sit on an oddly shaped island bound by Broadway and Seventh Avenue, between 41st and 42d Streets. Marriott does not expect the more budget-minded Courtyard hotel to compete with its Marriott Marquis convention hotel in Times Square. The hotel industry is experiencing an unprecedented boom in occupancy and increased room rates in New York. 
 "The market in Times Square is phenomenal right now," said one person familiar with Marriott's plans. "It'd be like adding rooms to the Marriott Marquis."
Prudential officials could not be reached for comment.
Robert Deeley, regional vice president for lodging development at Marriott, confirmed that the company was looking at sites in Times Square, but declined to comment on negotiations with Prudential.
"We have a substantial appetite for limited service hotels in New York," Mr. Deeley said. "We're continuing to explore opportunities in midtown, downtown and Times Square. But we haven't firmed up anything yet."
The site is one of three parcels controlled by Prudential and zoned for large office towers under the Times Square redevelopment plan. In recent years, Prudential has tried to get out of the real estate business and sell the sites to other developers. City and state officials, however, would have to amend the zoning and approve a deal before a hotel could be built.
The site is designated for a 1.2 million square-foot office tower. Marriott would only require about 600,000 square feet and may seek to transfer the unused development rights to one of the other sites, according to real estate executives active in Times Square.
Charles Gargano, the State Commissioner of Economic Development, is aware of the Marriott negotiations and would be happy to amend the plans for the area to allow for a hotel, because it would bring more tourists to Times Square, said Caroline Quartararo, a spokeswoman for the Empire State Development Corporation. Some real estate executives suggested that the Courtyard hotel would undercut efforts by the Tishman Urban Development Organization to build a 45-story, 860-room luxury hotel a block away at the northeast corner of Eighth Avenue, between 42d and 43d Streets. City and state officials selected Tishman two years ago from among three competing hotel developers, including Marriott, to build the hotel and an entertainment complex. Although Marriott had been willing to begin construction immediately, Tishman has another six years to locate financing and start the project. The entertainment complex, however, is moving forward.
Marriott was not content to wait and has been looking for a suitable location for more than a year. The Milstein family and developer Bruce Ratner have also talked of building hotels on the south side of 42d Street, near Eighth Avenue.
Richard Kielar, executive vice president for Tishman Realty and Construction, said the Marriott Courtyard would not pose a problem for developing a luxury hotel catering to tourists and business travelers on his organization's site.
"The Courtyard is not a full-service hotel," Mr. Kielar said. "So we don't think that adding a Courtyard puts us anywhere near the saturation point for hotel rooms."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (98%); PICL (NEP) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (98%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (98%); NAICS524298 ALL OTHER INSURANCE RELATED ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC; PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO; COURTYARD HOTELS MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (98%); PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO LTD (91%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (62%); PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC; PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO; COURTYARD HOTELS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); ZONING (89%); LODGING (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUDGETS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



104 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Budget Passed, Now the Hard Part

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, June 5

 BODY:
Five months after promising a deep cut in the income tax and substantial reductions in the state work force, Gov. John G. Rowland ended the year's budget negotiations with a victory pronouncement.
"We can say to everyone in the state that we've delivered," Mr. Rowland, a Republican, said in his speech early this morning closing the legislative session. 
 For the third year in a row, Mr. Rowland had pushed his agenda through the Democratic-controlled State House of Representatives, and through a State Senate where Democrats gained the majority this year. When the dust settled after a three-week budget stalemate, Mr. Rowland had won critical provisions that Democrats had resisted.
Now comes the hard part.
Having achieved the measures he wanted to control state spending and cut the income tax by one-third for a majority of taxpayers, Mr. Rowland must now make sure the measures provide the savings he promised.
"He got what he wanted in the budgetary terms, and now we can see if he can do it in managerial terms," said Michael Levin, vice president of the Connecticut Policy and Economic Council, a nonpartisan research group. "There are proposals in this budget that are still big question marks."
The biggest are two programs that at the start of the legislative session Democrats called "gimmicks." One is an early retirement plan that is supposed to result in the elimination of roughly 2,000 of the state's 43,000 positions. The other is contracting out all state computer services, the largest privatization effort in state history and perhaps the first time that any state has tried to turn over all its data processing to an outside vendor. Together, these two measures are supposed to save $250 million over the life of the two-year, $21 billion budget.
Democrats greeted these proposals in February with skepticism. "Neither of the state's two prior early retirement packages achieved this level of savings, and many computer privatization efforts in other states have been disastrous," State Representative Moira P. Lyons, the House majority leader, said then, adding that savings "could very well not materialize."
Democratic leaders said that since then, they have improved the early retirement proposal by brokering a contract with the state employee unions in April that won -- at least temporarily -- labor's support.
And the impasse over the state budget that delayed a final agreement until the last minutes of the legislative session, they said, was motivated by their effort to oversee the privatization measure. They held out for a provision that gave the legislature veto power over the computer privatization contract if one chamber rejected it by a vote of 60 percent.
Today, Mr. Lyons conceded she still had reservations about both initiatives, but was upbeat. "We think the budget will work," she said. "We voted on it, and it's a good budget."
Of course, politics played a major role in the decision to embrace these measures. Mr. Rowland has made income tax cuts the central issue in state politics. While Democrats have emphasized cutting property taxes instead of the income tax, they also from day one of the budget deliberations promised to deliver big tax reductions, and had to match the tax cuts Mr. Rowland offered.
As a result, Democrats could not afford to reject the savings that Mr. Rowland promised from early retirement and privatization.
Continued improvements in the economy could increase revenues so that the success or failure of these programs will have little impact on the state's finances.
Still, if the budget is to be balanced, Mr. Rowland must shoulder the burden of making these programs work.
Early retirement programs have a poor record nationally in producing savings. Ronald K. Snell, director of the economic and fiscal division at the National Conference of State Legislatures, said, "When you take all expenses into account, it's rare that you save money."
In states that have tried these programs, including Minnesota, Maryland and Virginia, such initiatives have failed to meet goals, he said.
And the way the current measure is structured will make it tough to achieve the expected savings, said Michael Meotti, president of the Connecticut Economic and Policy Council. Because it is open to all state employees over 52 years old who have worked for the state for 10 or more years, the state will have little control over who retires and whether they come from departments that are overstaffed.
Marc S. Ryan, a budget aide to Mr. Rowland, acknowledged that history is not on the Governor's side, but he noted that other governors have not been as committed as Mr. Rowland to shrinking the work force. He said that Mr. Rowland had already cut several thousand jobs, and would see to it that the same happened with this early retirement program.
At the same time, Mr. Ryan noted that Mr. Rowland has a fallback position: he could lay off more employees if the early retirement program failed to achieve its savings goal of $200 million. That, however, could lead to legal action by the state's labor unions.
The plan to privatize the state's computer operations, with a contract valued at $1 billion, may be even more dicey.
State employees unions, which have criticized the measure, say that private contractors who have handled smaller jobs for the state have come in over cost.
Mr. Ryan said large companies have successfully contracted out data processing. "We don't see any reason why that same success can't be mirrored in the public sector," he said.
That will be "one heck of a challenge," Mr. Meotti said, noting that the state lacks the depth of senior management and the financial incentives that exist in the private sector to manage such a transition.
"The Boston Red Sox management have spent years studying teams that won the World Series, but they haven't been able to do it in about 80 years," Mr. Meotti said. "They're a perfect example that the secret is in the execution of the plan."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Connecticut Secretary of State Miles S. Rapoport gaveled to a close the 1997 session of the Connecticut General Assembly yesterday. From left, Gov. John G. Rowland; the Speaker of the House, Thomas D. Ritter; the Senate President Pro Tempore, Kevin Sullivan, and Lieut. Gov. M. Jodi Rell cheered. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE HOUSE PRESS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; INCOME TAX BUDGETS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (86%); OUTSOURCING (78%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); TAX RELIEF (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (70%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) M JODI RELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



105 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Average Rises 35.63, As Market Gains Broadly
Stocks moved broadly higher in an unexpected show of investor confidence ahead of the monthly employment report today. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 35.63 points, or five-tenths of 1 percent, to 7,305.29 
 The broad rally first lifted technology stocks and spread quickly to financial issues, transportation stocks and other sectors. The Nasdaq composite index gained 10.38 points to close at 1,390.05. [Page D5.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities remained flat as investors waited for the May employment report. The 30-year bond yield was unchanged from Wednesday at 6.88 percent. [D14.]
 
Germany Goes After Cybercrime
In Germany, officials are pushing harder than in other Western democracies to govern the seemingly ungovernable reaches of cyberspace, trying to block access to material they consider obscene, violent or a danger to society. Angela Marquardt, a 25-year-old university student, will enter a Berlin courtroom today to face criminal charges for maintaining a home page that provided an electronic link to a left-wing newspaper called Radikal. [A1.]
 
Trinity Fund Seeks Fisher Scientific
Fisher Scientific International said that it had received an unsolicited takeover offer from Trinity I Fund L.P., a group affiliated with members of the Bass family, the Texas investors. Trinity proposed a recapitalization of Fisher or a cash deal worth an indicated $977.6 million to $998.4 million. [D4.]
 
Humana Buys Choice Care
In its second acquisition of the week, Humana has agreed to buy Choice Care, the largest health maintenance organization in Cincinnati, for $250 million in cash. [D3.]
 
Chip Maker Beats Estimates
The revamping of National Semiconductor by its new chief executive resulted in the chip maker's operating earnings exceeding analysts' estimates for the fourth quarter, although it reported a loss. [D2.]
 
Sears Agrees to Settle Claims
Sears, Roebuck agreed to pay at least $165 million to settle claims that it wrongfully pursued more than 200,000 customers whose credit card debts had been wiped out by bankruptcy filings. [D3.]
 
Wendy the Snapple Lady Is Back
A fanciful version of a Manhattan pushcart almost stopped traffic on Fifth Avenue as Wendy the Snapple lady shouted news of her comeback. Snapple's new owner, the Triarc Beverage Group, plans elaborate advertising, marketing and promotional ploys.
Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D4.]
 
A. R. Baron Salesman Pleads Guilty
The star salesman at A. R. Baron & Company, a brokerage house that has been indicted on charges of being a criminal enterprise, entered a single guilty plea and agreed to cooperate with a continuing criminal investigation of Baron. The firm cleared its trades through Bear Stearns before collapsing last summer. [D3.]
 
Are Retailers Under the Weather?
How big a part do cumulus clouds, high-pressure systems and warm fronts really play in the strength of retail sales? It depends. Not on the actual weather, it seems, but rather on the sales. If they are bad, the weather can be culpable. [D3.]
 
German Economy Grows in Quarter
Germany's economy grew an unexpected four-tenths of 1 percent in the first quarter over the previous quarter, as rising exports and corporate investment made up for weak consumer demand and a decline in construction activity. Growth was up 2.8 percent from a year earlier. [D2.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,305.29 up 35.63
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.88% Unchanged
The Dollar -- 115.72 yen down 0.53
 
Graphs: "TODAY" show the unemployment rate from Nov. 1996 to April 1997 and percent change in consumer borrowing from Oct. 1996 to March 1997. Expected unemployment rate for May: 5.0%. Expected total consumer borrowing for April: $4.5 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: TMO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (55%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (55%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (55%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC (55%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (53%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (53%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); CYBERCRIME (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); INDICTMENTS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); LIBERAL MEDIA (66%); RETAILERS (61%); RETAIL SALES (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: SID BASS (58%); ROBERT BASS (58%); LEE BASS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



106 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Co-op Market in Queens Shows Signs of Strength

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
The Queens co-op market has strengthened in recent months, prompted both by the general firming of New York City's real estate market and by the return to financial health of many buildings in the borough, with sales increasing and some landlords bringing apartments they had been renting back to the for-sale market.
While the sales activity is happening in varying degrees throughout the city, the rebound is noteworthy in Queens. By 1990, after the mid-1980's conversion surge had flattened, one of every four of the 80,000 apartments that were converted to co-ops in that borough were left in some kind of financial straits, according to data from the office of Borough President Claire Shulman of Queens. 
 Since then, many of the troubled cooperative buildings have worked out their financial problems, helping to nudge sales along, said managing agents, brokers and sellers. That modest rise in sales is evident in a spate of buildings, especially in good locations, in Queens communities like Forest Hills, Kew Gardens, Kew Gardens Hills, Jackson Heights and Woodside.
Also fueling the rise, many industry professionals said, is the strengthening housing market in general and Manhattan's in particular. At the same time, they said, financing for buying apartments has become more available, mortgage interest rates are reasonable and rents are rising.
In Queens, "there is not an avalanche of sales, but we are seeing movement," said Richard R. Pergolis, partner at Pergolis-Swartz Associates, a mortgage brokerage concern in Manhattan. For many people, "it now makes sense to buy because the monthly cost to own is comparable to the cost of renting," he said.
Charles Rappaport, executive director of the New York Federation of Housing Cooperatives, a nonprofit advisory group with about 650 members throughout New York City, said prices in Queens, as in other boroughs outside Manhattan, had fallen as much as 50 percent since the market's downturn in 1990. In the last year in Queens, he said, his members reported an 8 to 10 percent increase in prices, depending on the size of the apartment and the location and financial stability of the cooperative.
Co-ops in Queens sell on average for $40,000 to $50,000 for one-bedroom apartments and $60,000 to $70,000 for two-bedroom residences, Mr. Rappaport said.
More flexibility on the part of lenders has helped make more sales possible. Lenders often require that 50 percent of a building's apartments be sold before they will grant loans to buyers, and some also require a high level of owner occupancy. But some lenders are offering programs to enable co-op buyers to obtain loans in buildings that are healthy but do not meet such restrictive requirements.
For example, the National Cooperative Bank, based in Washington, offers share loans in qualified buildings that are 30 percent shareholder-owned, said Paulette Bonanno, vice president of the bank's Manhattan office. "This program is particularly important in Queens," Ms. Bonanno said, "because the borough has one of the highest percentages of buildings where less than half the apartments are sold."
Sales at several buildings in Queens reflect the pickup in activity. One is Hyde Park Gardens, a 37-building complex with 750 apartments at Jewel Avenue and 138th Street in Kew Gardens Hills. Last year, the Cheshire Group, a Manhattan-based investment concern, was given control of unsold apartments in the complex as part of a refinancing plan. In January, sales began on the 50 apartments.
Since then, 17 of the 20 vacant one- to three-bedroom apartments have been sold for $43,900 to $68,500, said Susan H. Hewitt, Cheshire's president. The rest of the units would be put on the market as they become available, she said. Cheshire just started a similar program at 92-05 Whitney Avenue, a 94-unit co-op in Jackson Heights. Of the 18 apartments controlled by Cheshire, 6 are vacant and for sale.
Sales are also under way at Boulevard Gardens, a 966-unit, 10-building complex at 54th Street and 31st Avenue in Woodside. Since last December, the co-op has sold 30 of its 80 vacant studio- to three-bedroom apartments for $20,000 to $60,000, said Jimmy Lanza, president of the Boulevard Gardens Owners Corporation. He said the plan was also to sell 300 occupied units that the co-ops took over as part of the refinancing as they become available.
Global Equities and Realty Inc., based in Manhattan, which owns small blocks, of three to five units each, in about 90 different cooperative buildings in Queens, sold 117 apartments this year at an average price of $32,000, up from 88 apartments sold the year before at an average price of $27,500, said Shem Rokeach, vice president of sales.
And some landlords are planning to reopen sales. This fall, sales are expected to begin again at two co-op complexes in Forest Hills converted in 1984 by the Moskowitz family, a large New York landlord. One, with 544 apartments, is on Yellowstone Boulevard and 67th Avenue; the other, with 354 units, is two blocks away.
Over the last 10 months, shareholders sold 17 studio- to two-bedroom apartments at the two complexes for $50,000 to $80,000, a 20 percent price increase over last year, said Karen A. Berman, vice president and director of sales at the Argo Corporation, the Manhattan-based management and brokerage company that is owned by the Moskowitz family. "Prices are strong and there is a demand again for co-ops," she said.
Co-op Equities Realty Partners, which is based in Bronxville, N.Y., reopened sales in the last few weeks for the 37 studio- to two-bedroom apartments it owns at two Queens projects: 84-01 Main Street in Briarwood and 69-40 Yellowstone Boulevard in Forest Hills. Prices are $30,000 to $80,000.
So far, the partners have a contract signed and two more pending on three of the six vacant apartments in the two projects. The remaining 31 apartments will be sold as leases expire over the next 6 to 12 months, said Nathaniel P. Plotkin, executive vice president of S. Goodstein Realty in Manhattan, the sales and marketing agent. "The most important thing that has happened in the Queens sales market," Mr. Plotkin said, "is that buyer hesitancy is over."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The pickup in the co-op market is reflected in Hyde Park Gardens, a 37-building complex with 750 apartments in Kew Gardens Hills, Queens. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: SWARTZ ASSOCIATES (54%); NATIONAL COOPERATIVE BANK (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); MORTGAGE RATES (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



107 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
5 Double Plays in Shutout by Reynoso

BYLINE: By MALCOLM MORAN 

 BODY:
So maybe it is still a little early to start printing those Armandomania T-shirts. But with an economical effort, helped by a Mets record-tying five double plays, Armando Reynoso reached an important personal milepost yesterday.
The first shutout of Reynoso's major league career, a five-hit, 6-0 victory over the Florida Marlins, reinforced the surprising effectiveness of the Mets' starting staff. It may also have defined the end of a long road back from arm surgery. 
 More than three years after his previous complete game, and the surgery to transplant a wrist ligament in his right elbow that followed, in May 1994, Reynoso (5-0) used finesse to achieve dominance.
He created 17 outs from ground balls and seven others through strikeouts (4) and popups caught by infielders. Through the first seven innings at Shea Stadium, Reynoso allowed two hits, faced one hitter beyond the minimum of 21 and allowed only three balls to reach outfielders.
"That's the pitcher he has to be," said Bob Apodaca, the Mets' pitching coach. "When he gets in trouble, he can't get excited. He has to remain cool, and he has to get that ground ball."
That's the view from the dugout. The growing sense of anticipation from his infielders is even more significant.
"With Reynoso," said second baseman Carlos Baerga, "you have to be ready to catch the ball."
The Mets won for the ninth time in Reynoso's 10 starts. His success carried an added importance against the Florida starter Kevin Brown (5-4), whose 1.89 earned run average a season ago led to a second-place finish in the National League Cy Young Award balloting. Brown allowed six earned runs in seven innings, for a total of 13 in his last two starts, to raise his e.r.a. to 3.09.
The first of Edgardo Alfonzo's two run-scoring singles put Brown behind in the second, immediately after the right-hander had hit Carl Everett in the left foot to place runners at first and second with two outs.
Reynoso's grounder off the glove of shortstop Edgar Renteria and into center field, Alfonzo's broken-bat grounder past the dive of third baseman Bobby Bonilla and John Olerud's double off the right-field wall increased the lead to 4-0 in the fourth.
Butch Huskey had a pair of leadoff singles, scored two runs and has lifted his average 67 points in the past month to .295. Olerud had his 20th multiple-hit game of the season. Alfonzo has batted .333 since a 2-for-23 start. But Alfonzo's biggest contribution came in the third inning, before the ground balls had become a habit.
Reynoso had allowed Renteria to reach the warning track in right field in the first inning, and he began the third by walking Cliff Floyd. That turned out to be Reynoso's only walk, but with the Mets holding a 1-0 lead, Charles Johnson, the next hitter, nearly created trouble. Johnson pulled a pitch toward third base, between Alfonzo and the bag and apparently headed into the left-field corner. Alfonzo, sensing a breaking pitch, said he had been prepared to move quickly to his right. The necessary elements for a reaction play instantly took shape.
"The ball took a good bounce," Alfonzo said. "Everything was perfect."
He speared the ball with a sliding lunge and made a perfect throw to Baerga at second for the start of the first double play of the day.
"You take two outs with one pitch," Reynoso said.
The five double plays helped limit his pitch count to 100 and allowed Reynoso to consider a possibility that once seemed a long way away. "I started thinking about nine," he said.
Three years ago, when Dr. James Andrews performed the surgery on Reynoso, he informed him that 95 percent of such operations had been successful. But the time frame was something else. Reynoso said he is only now beginning to feel consistently strong. And last year, with Colorado, the coziness of Coors Field compounded his problems.
The trade for Jerry DiPoto last November brought Reynoso to a park that is more fair to pitchers. Yesterday, with Manager Bobby Valentine eager to use Greg McMichael for the first time since Saturday, Reynoso had enough left to earn his shutout. "I usually don't do things for the individual," Valentine said. "I asked him if he wanted it. He wanted it. He got it."
 
INSIDE PITCH
PETE HARNISCH and PAUL WILSON are each scheduled to throw 15 minutes of batting practice before the game tonight at Cincinnati, the start of a five-game trip. . . . LANCE JOHNSON, who has been on the disabled list with shinsplints, is expected to run the bases. BOBBY VALENTINE said he did not expect that Johnson would include a minor league game as part of his rehabilitation. . . . YORKIS PEREZ, a left-handed pitcher, cleared waivers and was sent outright to Class AAA Norfolk, creating an opening on the 40-man roster.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A five-hitter yesterday by the Mets' Armando Reynoso was the first shutout of his major league career. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. B15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS; FLORIDA MARLINS NEW YORK METS (94%); FLORIDA MARLINS (83%); FLORIDA MARLINS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS; FLORIDA MARLINS NEW YORK METS (94%); FLORIDA MARLINS (83%); FLORIDA MARLINS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); SPORTS AWARDS (69%); RUNNING (53%); 

PERSON: MORAN, MALCOLM

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



108 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Merrill Lynch to Hire 2,000 for Cash and Tax Incentives

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

 BODY:
Merrill Lynch & Company, one of New York City's largest employers, has promised to add 2,000 jobs in exchange for more than $28 million in cash and tax incentives from the city and New York State, people familiar with the agreement said yesterday.
The subsidies will help the financial services company purchase 222 Broadway, a 31-story building between Fulton and Ann Streets, from Swiss Bank Corporation for $73 million. 
 Merrill Lynch, which employs about 9,000 people in New York, plans to hire 2,000 workers, mostly middle managers and back office workers, officials said. At its peak, Merrill Lynch employed about 13,000 people in Manhattan.
An employee of Merrill Lynch, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that "the firm was considering several options in terms of expansion, including out-of-state options. This makes it possible for us to stay and grow in New York City."
Officials said the deal, which will be voted on by the city's industrial development authority on Tuesday, would also keep about 1,000 employees of the company's back offices from moving to New Jersey. But a source familiar with the company's negotiations insisted that "there was never a thought of moving Merrill Lynch outside of New York City and New York State. The issue is where to expand."
Under joint agreements with the city's Economic Development Corporation and the Empire State Development Corporation, Merrill Lynch will receive $27 million in city and state sales tax exemptions on capital expenditures, such as the construction of its new offices.
Merrill Lynch will also receive a $1 million grant from a $20 million state fund, Jobs Now, which is intended for companies creating 300 jobs or more, officials said. Those subsidies will come on top of existing property tax incentives for tenants occupying office space in lower Manhattan.
Merrill Lynch already occupies about 3.5 million square feet of office space in Manhattan, including the entire 2-million-square-foot tower at 4 World Financial Center and about one-third of the nearby 2 World Financial Center.
Swiss Bank, which is vacating 222 Broadway and other New York offices to move to Stamford, Conn., had paid $150 million for the 36-year-old, 756,000-square-foot tower nine years ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (98%); MER (NYSE) (98%); 8675 (TSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (98%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (98%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (98%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO; SWISS BANK CORP MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (98%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO; SWISS BANK CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: 222 BROADWAY (NYC) TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (85%); JOB CREATION (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); SALES TAX (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



109 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Swiss, Irked by Critics, Ask 'Why Single Us Out?'

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: ZURICH

 BODY:
After months of being told that their history books were wrong and that Switzerland's war was not a good war, a truculent mood is building here that may turn the nation against making amends for what the Clinton Administration and others depict as complicity with Nazi Germany.
Increasingly, Swiss diplomats, commentators and the general public bristle at what they see as a double standard. Many here feel that the critics, particularly the United States, have unfairly singled out Switzerland for its shortcomings in a period in which many other nations behaved ingloriously. 
 "In our eyes morality can mean other elements," Flavio Cotti, the Foreign Minister, mused in an interview the other day that seemed to reflect a new and uncharacteristic readiness to abandon the niceties of diplomacy. "We could ask the United States why they didn't enter the war until later?"
Although they have learned that comparisons of their wartime behavior with that of others brings them no credit, officials here seem ready to make them if only to reflect their frustration that -- no matter what they say or do -- the image of a perfidious Switzerland will not go away.
"What happened to Dutch Jews, French Jews? It isn't discussed," said Thomas Borer, the country's leading diplomat on the so-called Nazi Gold affair. "We are willing to discuss but the debate is turning sour."
Politically, such sentiments mean that Swiss voters may not endorse what was to have been the centerpiece of the Government's plans to make restitution to victims of oppression, including Holocaust survivors. Documents released in recent months have made clear that Swiss banks traded in looted Nazi gold, and that Swiss businesses made a fortune selling arms to the Nazis.
The Government's plans to increase the monetary value of its gold reserves so as to create a $4.7 billion dollar investment fund whose earnings would be used to pay compensation is subject to a referendum next spring. Additionally, the Swiss Parliament must vote this year to approve a $70 million contribution by the Swiss National Bank to a separate fund for Holocaust survivors.
After plans for the $4.7 billion fund were announced on March 5, opinion surveys registered approval ratings of Swiss voters at 60 to 70 percent in favor. A recent survey, in the weekly L'Illustre, registered 43 percent against and only 40 percent in favor.
What was more alarming was the xenophobic, if not anti-Semitic, message that some read into the swing in public opinion. "The Swiss of today do not need Jews and Americans to take the opportunity of dragging them through the mud," wrote Daniel Pillard, an editor at L'Illustre.
At the beginning of this year, it seemed that Switzerland might just trip lightly out of the opprobrium attached to its wartime past and its dealings with Nazi Germany.
Like a choreographed minuet, bankers, diplomats, American Jewish officials -- and a majority of the Swiss -- all seemed ready to take steps toward the creation of funds, foundations and high-level inquiries that would underpin the process of moral atonement for Switzerland's economic closeness to the Nazis.
But since the publication in May of a withering United States report accusing the Swiss of prolonging World War II by acting as the Nazis' bankers -- a charge the Swiss Government rejected -- the dancers have stumbled. The report was directed by Stuart E. Eizenstat, Under Secretary of Commerce.
All the while protesting friendship with Washington, Swiss officials like Mr. Cotti have taken to saying publicly what many Swiss were already saying in private: If the United States is so troubled by the morality of Switzerland's wartime behavior, why did it not enter the war until over two years after it started? Why did it not bomb the rail lines leading to Auschwitz?
The national obsession with the issue is so pervasive that Swiss television recently devoted a full three hours of prime-time viewing to a debate on the emotional issues that have arisen from the nation's modern history.
There is agreement, to be sure, between Switzerland and the United States about the broad outlines of Swiss wartime actions. Few dispute that the Swiss National Bank bought looted gold from Nazi Germany, that Swiss private banks and businesses did lucrative business with the Third Reich, or that Swiss officials turned away 30,000 Jewish refugees.
And the Swiss authorities are coming to acknowledge that even in the postwar era there was a legalistic obstructionism -- some would call it greed and duplicity -- that shielded German assets from Allied expropriation and blocked survivors' access to the bank deposits of Holocaust victims.
The question for the Swiss, though, is the motive. What Switzerland did in a continent at war was done for survival's sake, the Swiss argue. What Switzerland did, their critics assert, was done out of opportunism and amorality and should be paid for in both moral and financial terms.
Yet many Swiss refuse to accept hostile characterizations of their country's motives and object to the pressure from abroad to do otherwise.
"Swiss-bashing by outsiders does not help," Mr. Borer said. "A lot of Swiss feel treated in an unfair way. They feel we do everything we can and yet the criticism goes on."
Such are the passions that the recent television show became an arena of national division, inspiring Rolf Bloch, the leader of the main umbrella group representing Switzerland's 18,000 Jews, to remark that, rather than worry about what Americans thought, "we should be having a dialogue among us Swiss" to define anew what the nation stands for.
"People still feel they are moral paragons," Mr. Bloch said. "If we can come to the conclusion that we are just normal people -- not angels, not devils -- then we will have learned something."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 8, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, an article on Friday about a Swiss backlash over accusations in the "Nazi gold" investigation was truncated. The last sentence, a quotation from a Swiss Jewish leader named Rolf Bloch, should have read: "If we can come to the conclusion that we are just normal people -- not angels, not devils -- then we will have learned something."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SNBN (SWX) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (78%); 

CITY: ZURICH (78%); 

COMPANY: SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND; ; SWITZERLAND (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (78%); ZURICH (78%); 

SUBJECT: NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND OTHER MINORITIES HISTORY (89%); HOLOCAUST (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (87%); WORLD WAR II (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (66%); REFERENDUMS (64%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997



110 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Algeria's Sham Election

 BODY:
This week's parliamentary elections in Algeria were not a serious exercise in democratic governance. Rules restricting the legislature's role assured that real power would remain with President Liamine Zeroual and his backers in the army high command. As a result, no end is in sight to Algeria's civil war, which has killed at least 60,000 people in the five years since the army canceled previous elections in order to prevent victory by a fundamentalist party, the Islamic Salvation Front.
Since then Islamic terrorists have targeted women, intellectuals and foreigners as well as government supporters. But the army's counterterror has been equally savage. To end the war, a serious dialogue must be opened between the army and the now-banned Salvation Front. 
 Algerian authorities are not yet prepared to take that route. Even if they did, the front is by no means certain to accept. Nevertheless, outside powers, especially the United States and France, should pressure the Algerian Government toward dialogue. They can do so by limiting financial support to the Government, and discouraging further investment in its oil-export-based economy until the political crisis ends.
Washington has struck a reasonably good balance between fighting terrorism and encouraging democracy. Paris, with a colonial history in Algeria and continuing close involvement, has not. France has stressed order alone, encouraging the regime's resistance to political compromise. The new French Government should re-examine its policies. By settling for the Algerian Government's approach of unlimited repression coupled with empty elections, France is only delaying serious efforts to resolve the Algerian conflict.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: ALGERIA (96%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA; ALGERIA (96%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLITICS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FUNDAMENTALISM (75%); HISTORY (71%); RELIGION (70%); COUNTERTERRORISM (70%); WOMEN (70%); 

PERSON: ZEROUAL, LIAMINE (PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1997



111 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy in Congo Offers Aid but Wants Progress on Rights

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: KINSHASA, Congo, June 6

 BODY:
President Clinton's special envoy to the Congo, Bill Richardson, arrived here this afternoon with a team of United States officials who could pave the way for the investment and economic assistance desperately needed by this country, which was reduced to financial ruin during 30 years of Mobutuism.
But Mr. Richardson had a human rights fist in the financial glove. The level of United States assistance is dependent on the new Government making "more progress on human rights," he said, and in particular, he said, the Congo needs to act decisively to protect tens of thousands of Rwandan Hutu refugees now wandering in its forests. 
 Thousands of the refugees were killed by Tutsi elements in Mr. Kabila's rebel army during the civil war that ended last month, according to numerous reports by United Nations agencies and international relief organizations. Mr. Kabila had himself inaugurated as President last week; his Government has repeatedly denied that there have been any deliberate killings of civilians, and has kept United Nations agencies, reporters and diplomats from carrying out investigations.
There is a serious question about how much control Mr. Kabila has over the ethnic Tutsi elements in his army.
"We want reports of those massacres investigated," said Mr. Richardson, who is the United States representative to the United Nations. "We want those involved in those massacres punished."
Mr. Richardson, who is scheduled to meet with Mr. Kabila on Saturday, said his trip would be a success if he made some "breakthroughs" in these areas.
It appears he will be disappointed.
Virtually the same message was delivered to Mr. Kabila on Thursday by ambassadors and senior diplomats from the European Union, Canada, Japan and the United States. They were representing the so-called Support Group on the Congo, which was put together by the United Nations to help get the Congo, formerly Zaire, back on its feet.
For the outside governments the balance is a delicate one: continuing to criticize Mr. Kabila on the Hutu refugee issue undermines his Government. "If he fails, this country will explode," said a senior European diplomat.
During a meeting that lasted two and a half hours and was devoted to the refugee issue, the diplomats made clear that their countries wanted to help the Congo economically, but that the manner in which the Hutu refugees were treated was a stumbling block.
"It was a friendly atmosphere," said a senior Western diplomat. "But in substance it went nowhere."
Another diplomat summed up the message delivered to Mr. Kabila: "All you have to say is that you have a problem, then we can help you."
But Mr. Kabila does not acknowledge that he has a problem, diplomats said. He says that massacre reports are coming from his enemies, and he insists that the only refugees who have been killed have been those who were engaged in combat against his army.
Indeed, many of the men among the refugees had been soldiers in Rwanda when it was ruled by the Hutu, and they fled to Zaire after the country fell to Tutsi rebels, in the summer of 1994. From those camps, they carried out raids into Rwanda. Last fall, Rwanda retaliated with attacks on the camps, and when the civil war here followed, Mr. Mobutu's forces armed the Hutu refugees.
Tutsi units in Mr. Kabila's rebel army hunted down the Hutu as they fled across Zaire, Western officials say. What may have been the last massacre took place a few days before the rebels' final victory, in Mbandaka, a town on the Congo River. According to accounts by residents and priests, nearly 500 refugees were killed, including women and children.
Witnesses have said the killings were carried out by Tutsi soldiers among the rebels.
On Thursday, the diplomats raised the reports of the massacre at Mbandaka with Mr. Kabila. He said he would investigate, but he said that any killing that was done was not by his soldiers and that he believed that only armed men, not women and children, were the victims.
At the outset of the civil war, in October 1996, units from Rwanda did most of the fighting and Rwandan foot-soldiers and commanders were key to Mr. Kabila's victory.
"Command and control" over many of the Tutsi units is still from Rwanda, a senior Clinton Administration official said last week.
"It appears he is powerless to do anything," he said of Mr. Kabila. This presents a problem for the United States and other nations that are criticizing Mr. Kabila's handling of the Hutu refugee problem. He needs international support to survive, and the criticism weakens him. "If we weaken him, we strengthen his dependence on the Rwandans," said a European diplomat.
Mr. Kabila has taken a few steps that are considered hopeful. This week, he appointed a minister with responsibility for refugees. And he has said that a United Nations inquiry on the reports of massacres will be allowed to carry out its work.
Mr. Richardson welcomed these steps. "But we want to see more," he said.

GRAPHIC: Map of Congo showing location of Kinshasa: Bill Richardson brought a carrot and a stick to Kinshasa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); CANADA (79%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO (74%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONGO (FORMERLY ZAIRE); UNITED STATES (96%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); CANADA (79%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%); KINSHASA, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO (74%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); CIVIL WAR (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (63%); 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND; RICHARDSON, BILL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MOBUTU SESE SEKO BILL RICHARDSON (91%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1997



112 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: When Housing Proposals Collide;
Tenants Fear Rent and Welfare Changes Spell Eviction

SERIES: WELFARE NEIGHBORHOOD: Who Pays the Rent?

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON 

 BODY:
Maria Maldonado and Rosemarie Soto -- mothers, welfare recipients, next-door neighbors -- have watched with apprehension as, one after another, Hasidic families have replaced Latino households in their rent-regulated Brooklyn apartment building at 193 South Ninth Street in the heart of Southside.
In the eternal competition between Hasidim and Latinos for living space in Southside , the women believe the Hasidim have greater financial resources. Thus they suspect that the landlords of 193 South Ninth Street, like many Hasidic building owners, are engineering the turnover in tenants in the name of greater economic stability and cultural self-interest. A steady influx of young white emigres from Manhattan has also fueled fears of displacement, particularly among Latinos in the neighborhood. 
 These concerns, which have been festering for years, have recently heightened wildly in Southside with the imminent prospect of two powerful forces of change. The first is welfare reform, which among other cutbacks will eliminate a subsidy that pays more than half the rent for these women and scores of Southside households. The second is rent deregulation, which could allow landlords to raise the rent on apartments that become vacant, raising fears that tenants will be harassed out of their buildings. The two issues have been discussed in isolation from each other in Albany, but their combined impact is not lost on the people of Southside.
"Sooner or later, one way or another, we will be out," said Ms. Soto, a 32-year-old single mother of two boys who fears that dwindling welfare cash and any increase in rents will prove potent.
The landlord of 193 South Ninth Street, Robert Guttman, one of three brothers who operate the building, said there was no explicit agenda for replacing Latino tenants with Hasidic families, and he discounted the widely held belief that Hasidic families were, as a rule, financially better off. But he also made clear his hostility to Latino tenants, his preference for Hasidic families and his appetite for the opportunity offered by a loosening of rent regulations.
"Look at how they live," said Mr. Guttman, disparaging the Latino tenants of South Ninth Street as drug users and welfare cheats with multiple boyfriends. "They are all having a party. They are comfortable with that life. They don't pay the rent anyway. Like every landlord, I would like to see the rent regulations ended. Any landlord who could get $600 for an apartment he now gets $300 for would do it. If I have to put some people out, why not?"
Thus the ingredients of Southside's unease are manifest inside the old tenement on South Ninth Street. Ms. Maldonado and Ms. Soto can pay their rents of roughly $400 because of a longstanding New York State welfare benefit that provides recipients facing eviction with a supplemental housing subsidy. Gov. George E. Pataki's welfare reform legislation, however, would eliminate that supplemental payment.
Currently, 27,000 welfare households in the city -- apartment holders facing eviction -- receive the supplemental shelter benefit to pay their rents. The supplement is known as the Jiggetts allowance, named after the recipient who successfully sued the city's welfare agency in 1990. Close to 200 of those so-called Jiggetts recipients live in and around Southside.
Mr. Pataki's welfare reform plan could seriously affect their ability to pay rent, particularly if they do not find work soon. The Governor has called for reducing the state's basic welfare grant, which averages $577 a month for a family of three, by 10 percent after 18 months, and by significant increments after that. Further, his plan, through changes in the language of the legislation and the consolidation of the welfare payments into one overall grant, would effectively eliminate the Jiggetts subsidy for those facing eviction.
Simultaneously, state legislators are fighting over rent regulations. The leader of the State Senate has threatened to eliminate the laws limiting rents for roughly one million apartments beginning on June 16. Assembly leaders are pledging to preserve the controls. Governor Pataki has proposed a compromise -- a vacancy decontrol plan that would allow landlords to significantly raise rents on regulated apartments only after the tenants have left.
No one expects complete deregulation to occur. But even minor changes loom large for a neighborhood where small bumps in rent can have great consequences and where there has been a long, angry history of landlord-tenant conflict.
The sense of risk and opportunity, for tenant and landlord, is clear on South Ninth Street, where welfare reform and rent control hang in the air, intertwined and ominous.
"I don't know what exactly the landlord will do if there is no more extra welfare money for rent and there are no more restrictions on what he can charge," said Ms. Soto, who receives a $130 Jiggetts subsidy monthly to pay her $416 rent. "I know, though, I won't be able to afford it."
The world of 193 South Ninth Street, then, illuminates several realities in Southside. Welfare reform, complex and far-reaching, does not unfold in isolation, but rather as only one of a number of forces -- immigration reform, educational decline, rent regulation -- at work on a poor neighborhood.
Southside, too, has realized it is a rare hybrid of a neighborhood: impoverished, short on housing for the existing population, but also extremely appealing to prospective, more financially stable tenants.
The growth of a white artist population, under way for years, has accelerated. The neighborhood's easy access to Manhattan -- the Williamsburg Bridge and a direct subway line to Manhattan -- and its location on the East River make it a draw. Meanwhile, the neighborhood's Hasidim, in search of housing for their growing population, are branching out into the Latino sections of Southside, largely, so far, through the purchase of houses and buildings.
Wiping out or relaxing rent regulations has thus become a more explosive concern in Southside than in other welfare-dependent neighborhoods.
"In Southside, you can put it all together," said Assemblyman Vito J. Lopez, the Democrat from Williamsburg who is also chairman of the Assembly's Housing Committee. "It could result in the significant displacement of the Latino population of Southside."
Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate Majority Leader, and Mr. Pataki say they will retain protections for poor tenants. Mostly, though, those pledges amount to supporting the building of affordable housing and toughening punishments for landlords who harass tenants.
The exact number of rent-regulated apartments in Southside is hard to determine. According to the 1996 New York City Housing and Vacancy Survey, two-thirds of the rental apartments in the Greenpoint and Williamsburg sections of Brooklyn are rent-regulated. Mr. Lopez estimated that as many as 5,000 of Southside's roughly 7,000 apartments were rent-regulated.
Interviews with residents and real estate brokers in the neighborhood produce consistent conclusions: rents in unregulated apartments are rising, and quickly, in a neighborhood where a $50-a-month increase can have profound ramifications.
Ken Firpo, a landlord and broker in Southside, said unregulated apartments renting for $625 a year ago were going for $725 now, and $700 apartments were currently being rented for $950.
"The Latino landlords are renting to these college kids and the Hasidim, too," Mr. Firpo said. "And if rent control goes, there will only be more motivation for landlords to buy people out or get them out otherwise. Hey, I have squeezed a few tenants out myself in the past. I could get $650 for apartments renting for $250."
Everyone is aware of what is happening in a neighborhood with a long history of landlord abuses, tenant organizing and fights over public housing. Each Hasidic purchase of a building belonging to Latinos is talked about. Longtime residents can tick off the buildings on Grand Avenue that have become occupied by Manhattan emigres.
Rent strikes are under way on numerous blocks. More than 1,000 Latino residents met at the Commodore Theater on Broadway last month and then marched through the streets of Southside chanting, "Hell, no, we won't go."
Indeed, the city, in an attempt to relieve tensions and increase housing, is on the verge of making a commitment to a multimillion-dollar plan to clear the way for more affordable housing for both the Latinos and Hasidim.
Some who are players in the transformation recognize the awkward dynamic.
"The fears of the Latinos are sensible, not hysterical," said Jennifer Miller, an artist and circus performer who has lived in Southside for 12 years. "Artists, including poor artists, have always been at the forefront of gentrification. It's clearly going on here."
Rabbi David Niederman, a Hasidic leader, said welfare-dependent Hasidic residents would be just as vulnerable as Latinos to the combined effect of welfare reform and rent deregulation.
"I hate when every issue goes the route of having the supposedly wealthy Hasidim set against the Latinos," Rabbi Niederman said. "Don't we all have the same common enemy: being poor?"
For the moment, people like a woman who gave her name only as Arelis Q. wait for the politicians to negotiate the policy questions -- welfare payments for shelter and the extent of the changes in rent regulation. She is a single mother who lives with her two children in a one-bedroom apartment on Union Avenue. There is no lock on the front door. The house tilts so badly that the living room couch is balanced by a two-by-four under one end. She pays $650. Welfare payments cover $286, with relatives making up the difference. Under Mr. Pataki's plan, there will be no government help if she faces eviction.
"Who knows what will happen," she said. "But I don't think the rent will go down."
 
Welfare Neighborhood
The nation's welfare system is being reshaped by an array of new laws and regulations. Since March 10, this series has examined how the changes come together in one Brooklyn neighborhood, Southside in Williamsburg. Other articles have examined fear of change, welfare fraud and the closing of a welfare office.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Maldonado, above, with her son, Miguel Tejada, 10, fears that changes in welfare and rent laws will force them from their apartment in the Southside section of Brooklyn. Hasidic and Latino children play separately in the streets of Southside, left. Their families compete for housing in an area that, while poor, has many attractions. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 21)
 
Graphs: "A BREAKDOWN: Helping to Pay the Rent"
A shelter benefit supplement, known as the Jiggetts allowance, was established after a state court ruled that the standard shelter benefit, which pays a maximum of $286 for a family of three, was not sufficient to pay city rents. Graphs show a breakdown of Jiggetts recipients in New York City, as of October 1996, in thousands, number of recipients in New York State from 1992 to 1996, average monthly Jiggetts supplement, adjusted for inflation, from 1992 to 1996 and spending on the Jiggetts supplement program, adjusted for inflation, from 1992 to 1996. (Source: New York State Department of Social Services)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTHSIDE (NYC); WILLIAMSBURG (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SURVEYS AND SERIES; WELFARE (US); RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION RENT CONTROL (91%); RELIGION (91%); EVICTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FAMILY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); WELFARE FRAUD (73%); DEREGULATION (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (66%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE; MALDONADO, MARIA; SOTO, ROSEMARIE SIR GEORGE YOUNG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1997



113 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Bonds Stage Biggest Rally In a Month

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices rebounded sharply yesterday in the strongest one-day rally for bonds in a month.
Prices were bolstered by speculation that European monetary union would be delayed and by rumors that the Treasury might eliminate an auction of 10-year notes. 
 Also, those investors who had bet that bond prices would drop in response to the May employment report were forced back into the market in an effort to try to stem their losses when bond prices began to rise. This short-covering rally extended the gains in bonds.
Carl Palash, chief economist at MCM Money Watch in New York, said signs of a delay in Europe's push toward a single currency helped bonds because of the potential of foreign investors' rushing into the United States Treasury market.
Talk that the Treasury might eliminate an auction of 10-year notes at a quarterly refunding this year also strengthened prices. Dropping an auction would reduce worries about the market's ability to absorb new supplies of bonds.
A Treasury spokesman said that while he was aware of the market talk, no decision had been made on future 10-year auctions. During the last quarterly refunding, the Treasury's advisory committee did raise the possibility of cutting back the number of auctions of 10-year notes.
The price of a 30-year Treasury bond rose 17/32 , to 983/32 , yesterday. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.77 percent, from 6.88 percent on Thursday. The yield, which had been 6.91 percent a week earlier, is now the lowest since Feb. 26. For bondholders, the day's gains translated into about $12.19 for each $1,000 of bonds held.
Patrick R. Dimick, a Treasury market analyst for UBS Securities, said it was the biggest rally since April 29, when a report showing restrained labor costs dropped the long bond's yield by 13 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point.
Bond prices fell early yesterday after the Labor Department reported that unemployment had dropped a notch lower in May. The unemployment rate fell one-tenth of a percentage point, to 4.8 percent, the lowest level since November 1973. The department also said that nonfarm jobs rose by 138,000 last month. Analysts had expected an unemployment rate of 5 percent and a gain of 225,000 jobs.
Mr. Palash of MCM Money Watch said the upward revisions in the nonfarm payroll numbers for March and April were more than had been expected, suggesting that there was very little slowdown taking place. However, "with inflation still benign, there is no compelling reason for the Fed to tighten monetary policy at the July 1 and 2 F.O.M.C. meeting," he said, referring to the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets Fed policy.
While the May payroll gain was less than had been expected, the average of April and May was a gain of 231,000 jobs, little different from the 228,000 average in the strong first quarter. "This confirmation could be seen in the decline in the unemployment rate," Mr. Palash said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (93%); BONDS (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (83%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); CURRENCIES (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); MONETARY POLICY (61%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1997



114 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: U.S. JOBLESS RATE DECLINES TO 4.8%, LOWEST SINCE 1973

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6

 BODY:
The nation's unemployment rate fell further in May to 4.8 percent, its lowest level since 1973, as Americans enjoyed an economy that has lately produced a remarkable combination of low joblessness and low inflation.
President Clinton immediately seized on the Labor Department report today, saying, "America's economy is the strongest it has been in a generation." In the last three years, the unemployment rate has fallen from around 6 percent and the nation has added more than eight million jobs while inflation has averaged 3 percent or less. 
 Even as the unemployment rate fell for the fourth consecutive month, the number of workers on payrolls rose by a relatively moderate 138,000.
The financial markets, which normally react badly to lower unemployment out of fear that it will lead to higher inflation, responded with unexpected strength today. The Dow Jones industrial average soared above 7,400 points for the first time and interest rates fell. [Page 31.]
While other factors contributed to the buoyancy of the markets, it was also a testament to the increasing confidence among investors that the economy was plowing new ground.
"The best of all possible economies just keeps rolling along," Bruce Steinberg, Merrill Lynch's chief economist, wrote in a report to clients this week.
These low unemployment figures have translated into increased job security for Americans and, more slowly, into rising incomes. Last month, hourly earnings climbed 4 cents, bringing the increase over the last 12 months to 3.8 percent.
As a result, analysts said, many workers are exercising new-found confidence to move and look for better jobs.
"There's a real sense of freedom to go look about," said Frederick Breimyer, chief economist at the State Street Bank and Trust in Boston.
Of Americans currently unemployed, 12.2 percent voluntarily quit their latest jobs in the belief they could readily find another. A year ago, only 9.4 percent of the unemployed were in the same category.
With the proportion of the population holding jobs reaching such a high level, the question now is how much stronger the job market can get without pushing pay and inflation up.
While fears remain among economists that such low unemployment will soon push up wages at an accelerating pace, many employers are becoming increasingly creative in finding ways to persuade scarce workers to join their companies. To remain competitive, employers are resisting raising the prices of their products, which also means they are reluctant to offer significantly higher wages. Instead, they are offering benefits like extra vacation time for new recruits.
Today's figures -- the first broad look at the economy's performance for the month -- showed little evidence that the economy was slowing down, as many analysts had predicted based on other recent indicators.
While payrolls expanded by just 138,000, less than expected, this was after the Labor Department made sharp upward revisions for job growth for March and April.
Some investors and traders appeared to interpret today's news as a sign that the Federal Reserve would not raise short-term interest rates at its next policy meeting on July 1 and 2, but that was an opinion many economists did not share.
Marilyn Schaja, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said the Fed would be "concerned" about the steady decline of the jobless rate to 4.8 percent, and the strong payroll growth for March and April that is now much larger than first estimated.
Another Wall Street analyst, Rosanne M. Cahn of Credit Suisse First Boston, said that while the Fed might avoid a July increase, "by August there will be plenty of evidence that the slowdown was temporary."
"People may not be buying cars and clothes, but they're buying boats, jewelry, computers, all kinds of sporting equipment -- and they're traveling abroad like crazy," she said.
One reason employment is rising so sharply when the jobless rate is already low is the still large pool of some 66 million employable people, including students, who are neither working nor seeking work.
Katharine G. Abraham, the Commissioner of Labor Statistics, told Congress today that many of these people were being drawn into the labor force by the buoyant economy. These include retirees who see help-wanted signs in local stores and realize that convenient jobs can be easily obtained, welfare recipients under increasing pressure to find jobs and younger people leaving school.
"The size of the available labor force is not fixed," she declared.
May's payroll expansion was concentrated in health, lodging and other services. Construction also rebounded from a decline of 10,000 in April with the aid of favorable weather, the report showed. Manufacturing, however, lost 5,000 jobs as growth in printing and publishing, chemicals, electronics, industrial machinery and aircraft was offset by declines in food processing, apparel and a strike-affected automotive industry.
The exceptionally large revision lifted payroll growth in April to 323,000, the biggest in 14 months, from 142,000, while March growth was raised to 182,000 from 139,000, the report also showed.
The length of the private-sector workweek was unchanged last month, with factory hours and factory overtime edging down six minutes from recent peaks. The index of aggregate weekly hours climbed four-tenths of a point, to 140, the same level as in February.
According to the department's survey of households, job growth last month was 255,000, enough to trim the jobless rate one-tenth of a point since the labor force expanded by a modest 75,000.
The bulk of the improvement was for adult men, whose unemployment rate dropped to 3.8 percent from 4.2 percent, which was well below the 4.5 percent rate for adult women. As recently as January both men and women had the same jobless rate -- 4.6 percent.
At 12.2 percent of the jobless, the so-called quit rate of people who left their jobs voluntarily was up from 11.2 percent in April and from 9.4 percent in May 1996.
"This is a sign labor is getting new confidence" that could translate into higher wages, said Irwin L. Kellner, an economic consultant on Long Island.
Despite the low level of unemployment, the jobless rate remained at 10.3 percent for blacks and 7.4 percent for Hispanic people. For teen-agers, the rate was 15.6 percent, while 32.6 percent of black male teen-agers in the labor force were without a job.

GRAPHIC: Charts: "Paradise Found?"
Before the 1980's, the economic cycle seemed to be a steady ratchet, as ever-shallower troughs in the unemployment rate spurred ever-higher peaks in inflation and vice versa. But two long expansions since then seem to have broken this link. A generation ago, when the unemployment was last at 4.8 percent, price rises were headed for double digits; this time around, inflation is low and steady. INFLATION -- Change in consumer prices from a year earlier, seasonally adjusted. UNEMPLOYMENT -- Seasonally adjusted. (Source: Haver Analytics)(pg. 32)
 
"The Labor Picture in May"
UNEMPLOYMENT -- DEMOGRAPHICS

Civilian unemployment	4.8 percent	White	4.0%	Black	10.3%	Hispanic*	7.4%	Men 20 and over	3.8%	Women 20 and over	4.5%	Teen-agers (16-19)	15.6%	
 
OUT OF WORK (millions)

Unemployed for 15 weeks or more	2.1 million	Civilian employment	129.6 million	 Total 6.5 Lost job 2.9 Left job 0.8 Returning to labor market 2.3 New to labor market 0.6
 
'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (millions)

Working part-time because full-time work is unavailable	4.0	'Discouraged' workers (no longer looking for work)+	0.4	
 
EMPLOYMENT
 
TYPE OF WORK (millions)

	April	May	Nonfarm	121.7	121.8	Goods	24.7	24.7	Services	97.0	97.1	Agriculture	3.5	3.4	
 
AVERAGE WEEKLY HOURS

	March	April	May	Private industry	34.8	34.5	34.5	Manufacturing	42.1	42.1	42.0	Mfg. overtime	4.9	4.9	4.8	
 
SHARE OF POPULATION (percent)

	April	May	Civilian employment	63.8	63.9	Civilian labor force	67.2	67.1	
All figures are seasonally adjusted except discouraged workers. *Hispanic people can be of any race. +People not working but not counted as unem-ployed because they have become too discouraged to look; must have searched in the past 12 months and been available for work when surveyed. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
 
"Consumer Borrowing"
Net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted.
Annual Rates of Change

April	7.6%	March	3.0	Feb.	6.7%	Jan.	10.3	
(Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE STREET BANK & TRUST CO (65%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1997



115 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-7
 
Germany Puts Scientology Under Surveillance for Year
Germany placed the Scientology movement, which it says is bent on undermining its democratic society, under nationwide surveillance for one year. The organization said it would contest the decision in court. The German authorities seem determined to maintain pressure on Scientologists here and limit their activities. In the past Government surveillance has been largely focused on extremist political groups. 1
 
Croatian Candidate Attacked
The chief rival to President Franjo Tudman in Croatia's presidential elections was punched and whipped with a belt by a man in an army uniform. Vlado Gotovac suffered head injuries and was hospitalized after the attack, which took place during a political rally in Pula. Mr. Gotovac often said his campaign for the June 15 election was futile in the face of opposition by the machinery of state. 6
 
Blair Lectures Socialists
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain brashly counseled European Socialist leaders at a meeting in Sweden to discard "old style" ideas, predicated on more government spending and regulations, "or die." But Lionel Jospin, the Socialist who recently became Prime Minister of France, praised public services and warned against reliance on market forces. Mr. Blair, who British polls show has a record approval rating of 82 percent, went on to tell Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany that the European Union was out of touch with its own people. 6
 
Congress Moves Up China Vote
Republican leaders in Congress rescheduled the annual vote on whether to renew China's trading status, moving it to late June, a month earlier than planned, so that it takes place before the transfer of Hong Kong to Chinese rule on July 1. President Clinton's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, said that a close vote, even if it preserved China's trading status, could weaken the Administration's China policy. 7
 
U.S. Pressures Congo
President Clinton's special envoy to the Congo, Bill Richardson, arrived in Kinshasa and told President Laurent Kabila that American aid for the country was dependent on the new Government's progress on human rights issues, particularly the treatment of tens of thousands of Rwandan Hutu refugees wandering in the eastern part of the country. Mr. Kabila has denied reports that Tutsis among his troops have killed thousands of refugees. 4
 
No Surprises in Algerian Vote
Algeria's parliamentary elections were dominated by the National Democratic Rally, a party created two months ago to represent the interests of President Liamine Zeroual, a retired general, and the military. Opposition parties claimed widespread fraud. Fewer than two-thirds of eligible voters went to the polls; in the capital, Algiers, under half did so, apparently responding to calls for a boycott from the banned Islamic Salvation Front. 3
 
NATIONAL 8-10, 25
 
Defense Lawyers Plead For Sparing McVeigh's Life
A lawyer for Timothy J. McVeigh pleaded with jurors who had convicted him of bombing the Oklahoma City Federal building to avoid being influenced by the emotional impact of the case and to spare him from execution. In the first day of the defense case in the penalty phase of Mr. McVeigh's trial, the lawyer told jurors that the Federal raid on the Branch Davidian compound near Waco, Tex., made Mr. McVeigh think that the Government "had declared war on the American people." 1
 
First Father Gives Address
President Clinton spoke at the graduation of his daughter, Chelsea, from Sidwell Friends School in Washington. He mixed political and familial sentiments. 1
 
Teamster Ally Is Charged
A fund-raiser for Ronald Carey, the teamsters' president, was charged with mail fraud, in what Federal prosecutors said was a scheme to embezzle union money for Mr. Carey's re-election campaign in 1996. The charges are expected to step up pressure on the Federal election monitor to order a new election. 1
 
Appeal to Court on Notes
The Justice Department asked the Supreme Court to order lower court judge to balance the interests of attorney-client privilege and the needs of the Whitewater counsel in deciding whether notes of Hillary Rodham Clinton's conversations with White House lawyers needed to be turned over to investigators. The Justice Department's petition increases the chances that the Court will agree to hear the case and delay the investigation by as much as a year. 10
 
General's Chances Lessen
Senators spoke more critically of Gen. Joseph W. Ralston of the Air Force, whose candidacy to become Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is threatened because of an adulterous affair he had in the mid-1980's. 9
 
Immigration Law Criticized
A bipartisan Federal advisory panel sharply criticized a new immigration law, saying it did not provide adequate protection for genuine refugees seeking asylum in the United States. 9
 
NEW YORK/REGION 21-24
 
Former Student Sought In Murder of Teacher
Police searched three boroughs for a former student of a murdered Bronx high school teacher, calling him a prime suspect in the slaying. Investigators said they had lifted a fingerprint of the suspect, Corey Arthur, 19, from duct tape that was used to bind the teacher, Jonathan M. Levin, before he was tortured and shot in the head in his Upper West Side apartment last Friday. Mr. Arthur also left a partial message on Mr. Levin's answering machine shortly before a surveillance camera recorded someone using the teacher's bank card to withdraw $800 from an automated teller machine near his apartment, investigators said. Many students at the school where Mr. Levin had taught said they could not believe a former student could be involved in his murder. 1
 
Hospital Contract Is Ended
The city ended Montefiore Medical Center's contract to run Jacobi Medical Center, saying Montefiore's cuts in staff and failure to expand some outpatient services had jeopardized care. Officials said Montefiore flouted the contract almost from the day it was signed. The president of Montefiore denied that his medical center had violated its contract "in any material way." This was the first year that the city tied payments under such contracts to performance. 21
 
Sale Is Near for Helmsley
Leona Helmsley is close to selling her family's real estate company, Helmsley-Spear, to the partners of her late husband, ending a long-standing feud with the two men. 21
 
Shabazz Hearing Delayed
The need for more psychiatric evaluations again delayed a hearing in Family Court at which lawyers from the Westchester County Attorney's Office would lay out allegations against the grandson of Malcolm X, who is accused of setting fire to his grandmother, Betty Shabazz. A lawyer for the boy, Malcolm Shabazz, asked for an independent psychiatric examination. 23
 
Officer Who Was Shot Dies
A police officer died after being in a coma since he was shot last month while driving his car in the Bronx. Investigators said the officer, Brian Fasack, who was off duty at the time, had been the victim of a robbery. But many of the circumstances of his death remain murky. 22
 
BUSINESS DAY 31
 
Joblessness at 4.8 Percent
The nation's unemployment rate fell to its lowest point in 24 years last month, 4.8 percent. Hourly earnings continued to rise. 1
 
The Dow Jones industrial average reacted buoyantly to that and other economic news, soaring 130.49 points to 7,435.78, 13 points shy of a 1,000 point gain this year. 31
 
Business Digest 31
 
SPORTS 26-30
 
ARTS 13-17, 20
 
Missing Paintings Found
The F.B.I. has recovered two paintings, Claude Monet's "Customs Officer's Cabin at Pourville" and Pablo Picasso's "Nude Before a Mirror," that a Los Angeles doctor reported stolen in 1992. The paintings were found undamaged in a storage locker in a Cleveland suburb in February. 13
 
OBITUARIES 11
 
J. Anthony Lukas
The author and former reporter for The New York Times, who won two Pulitzer Prizes, was 64. 
 
EDITORIAL 18-19
 
Editorials: Chairman Helms, fairness in special education, Algeria's sham election, one way to redeem the tax package.
Columns: Russell Baker, Maureen Dowd.
 
Bridge 47
 
Crossword 47
 
Weather 44

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); CHINA (94%); CROATIA (93%); ALGERIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (79%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (77%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); CHINA (94%); CROATIA (93%); ALGERIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (79%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SCIENTOLOGISTS & SCIENTOLOGY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAWYERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ARMIES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); JURY TRIALS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); HEAD INJURIES (70%); REFUGEES (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); TONY BLAIR (76%); BILL RICHARDSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1997



116 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Jobless Rate Falls to 4.8%; Payrolls Rise Moderately
The nation's unemployment rate fell for the fourth straight month in May to 4.8 percent, its lowest level since 1973, as the number of workers on payrolls rose by a relatively moderate 138,000. 
 President Clinton seized on the report, saying, "America's economy is the strongest it has been in a generation." In the last three years, the unemployment rate has fallen from around 6 percent, and the nation has added more than eight million jobs, while inflation has averaged 3 percent or less. [Page 1.]
 
Xerox Buys British Stake
Xerox is finally taking full ownership of Rank Xerox, the London marketing and manufacturing operation it created in 1956 with the Rank Organization. Xerox will pay the Rank Group about $1.5 billion for its 20 percent of Rank Xerox. The deal will also bring Xerox's share of Fuji Xerox to half. [44.]
 
Treasury Issues in Strong Rally
Prices of Treasury securities rebounded in the market's strongest one-day rally in a month. The 30-year Treasury bond rose 17/32 in price, to 983/32 , pushing its yield to its lowest point since Feb. 26, at 6.77 percent, from 6.88 percent on Thursday. Prices were bolstered by speculation that European monetary union would be delayed. [32.]
 
HFS Plans Avis Stock Sale
HFS Inc., which acquired Avis in October, plans to sell 75 percent of a stripped-down Avis Rent-A-Car Inc. in a first-time public stock sale that may raise as much as $250 million. HFS will continue to own the Avis brand name and reservation system. [33.]
 
China Raises Hong Kong Stake
China Telecom said that it would buy 5.5 percent of Hong Kong Telecommunications from Cable and Wireless of Britain for $1.2 billion, raising its stake to 13.2 percent and furthering the Chinese Government's grasp on Hong Kong's basic industries. [34.]
 
Germany Delays Internet Trial
A German court delayed by weeks a trial that could redefine Internet law, that of a left-wing politician accused of aiding guerrilla acts with information linked to her home page. [33.]
 
Teamster Election Is Under a Cloud
The Federal Government said it was charging a campaign official working for Ronald Carey, left, the president of the teamsters' union, with mail fraud. It accused the fund-raiser, Martin Davis, who runs a direct-mail firm, of scheming to have the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and other groups illegally funnel at least $95,000 to the Carey campaign. The move is expected to step up pressure on the Federal election monitor to vacate the election and order a new one. [1.]
 
City Ends Montefiore Contract
New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation terminated Montefiore Medical Center's three-year contract, $113 million to run Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx, saying Montefiore jeopardized care by cutting back on staff and failing to expand some outpatient services. [21.]
 
Sale Near for Helmsley-Spear
Leona Helmsley, who has been battling the partners of her late husband, Harry B. Helmsley, over a real estate empire that stretches from modest garment district buildings to the Empire State Building, is close to selling the real estate company. [21.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,435.78 up 130.49
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.77% down 0.11
The Dollar -- 114.60 yen down 1.12
 
Graph: "Unemployment rate"
Graph shows the unemployment rate (seasonally adjusted in percent) for the years 1973 through 1996. (Source: Haver Analytics)
 
Photo: Ronald Carey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (93%); CAR (NASDAQ) (66%); K3ED (SGX) (53%); CHA (NYSE) (53%); 0728 (HKSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (66%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (66%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (66%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (93%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (93%); AVIS GROUP HOLDINGS INC (66%); AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (66%); FUJI XEROX CO LTD (56%); CHINA TELECOM CORP LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (93%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BONDS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (74%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); FUNDRAISING (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (61%); LIBERALISM (61%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (61%); MAIL FRAUD (60%); MONETARY UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1997



117 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: China's Trade Status Remains 'Open Question' as Vote Nears

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

 BODY:
With animosity toward China growing on the right and left in Congress, President Clinton's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, said yesterday that it remained "an open question" whether Congress would vote to revoke China's normal trading status.
Mr. Berger spoke as the Republican leadership in the House rescheduled this year's vote on the trading status for late June, a month earlier than expected, to assure a vote before the return of Hong Kong to Chinese rule on July 1. 
 Mr. Berger said that even a close vote that preserved China's status could prove "corrosive," undercutting the Administration's efforts to deal with China's leaders on a variety of issues, from the environment to the spread of weapons.
"It is difficult for us to move this relationship to a new level where we have a greater chance of solving problems if we don't have a national consensus behind the policy," Mr. Berger said in an interview in his office at the White House.
The trade arrangement is called "most favored nation" status, although it is the normal trading arrangement accorded most countries by the United States. China's status is currently subject to yearly review, and advocates of renewal this year have been concerned that any problem in the handover of Hong Kong, especially televised protests that could provoke police reaction, could jeopardize passage.
One Republican aide said yesterday that the vote was being moved up to deny opponents the opportunity to rally support. That suggested confidence that the House will preserve the status but concern that opposition could be stronger than it has been in recent years.
In a speech delivered in New York at the Council on Foreign Relations, Mr. Berger said that the fight to revoke China's status was the "one development" that could undercut American policy toward China and "do grievous injury to the interests of the United States."
In his speech, Mr. Berger defended the Administration's policy, which seeks to engage China through trade and economic development, while making clear American objections to violations of human rights, among other things. He also said the United States would monitor how China takes control of Hong Kong to insure that its traditions and freedoms thrive, but that punishing China by revoking its trading status would only isolate Hong Kong.
"The goals of the opponents to normal trading relations with China are ones we share -- advocating human rights and religious freedom, promoting fair trade, strengthening regional and global security," he said in his speech. "But the method they have chosen -- destroying our economic relations with China -- is profoundly misguided."
In the interview, Mr. Berger said the Administration was articulating what he called a "clear and coherent" policy toward China as Congress moves toward what is expected to be a pitched fight.
The Administration hoped this year would bring calmer relations with China, culminating in a summit meeting between President Clinton and President Jiang Zemin in the fall. Last year's debate ended quickly, as members in the House voted solidly -- 286 to 141 -- to renew China's status.
But this year the debate has flared, driven by a lack of improvement in China's human rights record, the impending takeover of Hong Kong and the controversy over campaign finance.
Mr. Berger argued that critics of China had chosen the wrong way to register their outrage. He said that the United States had "an arsenal of tools" to punish China, including more targeted sanctions, like those imposed last month on two Chinese companies for helping Iran develop chemical weapons.
As for Hong Kong, he said the United States expected China to abide by the agreement reached with Britain in 1984 to maintain Hong Kong's freedoms under autonomy. The United States would gauge that, he said, by seeing whether elections for a new legislature take place soon, the civil service and judiciary continue to work unmolested, the economy remains open, and freedom of religion, speech and association is maintained.
"Living up to that pledge is as much in China's interest as it is in Hong Kong or in ours," he said in the speech.
"A smooth reversion will promote China's international prestige," he said. "Handled badly, the transition will tarnish China."
He did not, however, specify what steps the United States would take if China at some point in the future violated those standards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); RELIGION (65%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERGER, SAMUEL R BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1997



118 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers to Push Futures Investigation

BYLINE: Dow Jones 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6

 BODY:
The United States Department of Justice will be asked next week by a group of Federal lawmakers to investigate the possible anti-competitive effects of a Chicago Board of Trade proposal to drop two cities that serve as delivery points for the exchange's corn and soybean futures contracts.
Two Democratic Representatives, John Dingell of Michigan and Marcy Kaptur of Ohio, are leading the effort to get a Justice Department investigation of the issue. 
 One of the delivery points that would be dropped by the Board of Trade -- Toledo, Ohio -- is in Ms. Kaptur's district. The other grain delivery point that would be eliminated is St. Louis.
Board of Trade officials were not available for comment on the lawmakers' plan to seek an investigation.
 The rate increase was the first by the bank, the Bank of England, since the new Labor Government last month raised rates and simultaneously removed the Government from future involvement in the decision-making process.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing the BASE-RATE (benchmark short-term rate set by the Bank of England) and INFLATION (change in the retail price index from a year earlier), from 1990 to 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (93%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (93%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOLEDO, OH, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE CME GROUP INC (93%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO (OHIO); ST LOUIS (MO); UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; CORN; SOYBEANS JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); FUTURES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); 

PERSON: MARCY KAPTUR (73%); JOHN DINGELL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1997



119 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Dow Adds 130, Putting 1997 Gain Near 1,000 Points

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
In yet another display of the market's seemingly bottomless store of euphoria, stock prices surged again yesterday, lifting most of the major indexes to new records.
Heavy demand for blue-chip stocks and fresh signs that the economy remains robust, but with few signs of inflation, have buoyed a stock market that continues to baffle even seasoned analysts. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average soared 130.49 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at a record 7,435.78 -- leaving the index just 13 points shy of a 1,000-point gain this year.
In fact, in just over five months, the Dow has climbed more than 15 percent, giving investors and Wall Street a great deal to cheer about.
"It's been one heck of a year," said A. Marshall Acuff, a market analyst at Smith Barney. "There were many years in history when people would have been glad to take 15 percent."
The rally yesterday was fueled in part by the bond market, where prices jumped and yields plunged after the Government released data showing that payrolls rose less than had been expected last month, even as the unemployment rate fell to a 23-year low. The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell to 6.77 percent, its lowest level since late February, from 6.88 percent on Thursday.
Bond prices initially slipped yesterday morning on concerns that the unemployment data would be ominous for debt securities. But bond prices soared later, sending the market to one of its best one-day performances this year, partly because just 138,000 jobs were created last month, down from 323,000 in April.
The financial markets were also buoyed by reports that European monetary union might be delayed, primarily because of weakness in Germany, where new data show a surge in unemployment. The dollar hit its highest level against the German mark in nearly three and a half years -- 1.7423 marks -- before settling back in New York at 1.7258 marks, down from 1.7288 Thursday. The dollar also ended down against the Japanese yen at 114.60, compared with 115.72 on Thursday.
But longer term, analysts said, uncertainty in Europe could create stronger demand for the dollar, which is considered a highly stable currency; in contrast, the foreign-exchange market has grown increasingly skeptical that the planned European currency, the euro, will be strong. All of these factors should mean greater foreign demand for American securities, according to analysts.
While investors viewed the European developments favorably and the payroll data as benign, some analysts said yesterday's rally had less to do with such particular events and more to do with investors' seemingly boundless desire for stocks.
"Confidence is running high, mutual fund inflows are strong and investors want to own stocks," said Joseph V. Battipaglia, chief equity strategist at Gruntal & Company. "That's because the economy is strong enough to yield better-than-expected earnings but not enough for the Fed to raise rates."
Among the indexes setting records yesterday was the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks, which rose 14.58 points, to 858.01. The Russell 2000 index of small-capitalization stocks also peaked, up 2.15 points, to 387.14.
It has been that kind of year for the stock market. After two years in which the Dow gained more than 20 percent, few analysts expected stocks to play an encore.
But the market has foiled most bearish soothsayers. Despite a nearly 10 percent drop that ended in mid-April, blue-chip issues have racked up enviable returns. For example, shares of Wal-Mart are up 38 percent for the year; Coca-Cola, 29 percent, and Microsoft, 50 percent.
One reason large-capitalization stocks keep sizzling is that investors, continuing to see the global companies as safe bets, ride the wave of momentum buying out of fear that they will miss out on a big rally.
"There's pressure for performance," said Richard E. Cripps, a market strategist at Legg Mason in Baltimore. "We have more capital that wants to get into the market, and we have few good stock ideas."
Among the strong sectors, financial issues, like banks and brokerage houses, are booming, with the S.& P. financials index up 20 percent this year. And drug stocks are doing even better; the Amex pharmaceuticals index has gained 25 percent.
More impressive, though, are the broad market gains that have taken place in recent weeks. Small- and mid-capitalization stocks are now in growing demand.
Yesterday, advancing issues outnumbered those declining by more than 2 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange. And program trading, often a sizable factor when the Dow gains more than 100 points, played a smaller role yesterday, according to Birinyi Associates, a market research firm in Greenwich, Conn.
Still, yesterday's performance was dominated by blue-chip issues. Within the Dow, 29 of the average's 30-component stocks rose yesterday, led by Procter & Gamble, up 3, to 136 1/4; Merck up 3, to 92 1/4, and J. P. Morgan, which gained 2 3/4, to 111 1/2.
Yesterday's run-up was the ninth time this year that the Dow has gained more than 100 points in a day. Recently, however, the Dow has been less volatile. For the week, the Dow gained 104.74 points, or 1.4 percent.
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index also rose yesterday, climbing 14.79 points, or 1.1 percent, to close at 1,404.84. The index has gained 8.8 percent this year but has lagged behind recently, partly because of Intel's announcement that second-quarter earnings would be disappointing.
Despite the market's spectacular gains this year, many analysts continue to caution investors that a significant slump could lie ahead. The "wolf" is not at the door, Mr. Acuff at Smith Barney said, but that is of little solace to a longtime market watcher.
"The market, to put it mildly, is historically high," he said. "Some people say it's different this time, but I heard that in the 60's."
 
ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. 32)
 
Chart: "Dow Industrials"
Chart shows the closing volume of the New York Stock Exchange from April through June 1997. (Source: Bloomberg)(pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GRUNTAL & CO INC (60%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (60%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); EURO (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); GERMAN MARK (68%); MONETARY UNIONS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); JOB CREATION (66%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1997



120 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Whitman's Borrowing Plan: Criticism May Not Go Away

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 6

 BODY:
When Gov. Christine Todd Whitman unveiled her multibillion-dollar borrowing plan for the state pension system in January, her top aides were stunned by the harsh criticism, even from members of her own party.
The Republican chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee called it a "wacko idea." The president of the state A.F.L.-C.I.O. called it her latest attempt to rob the public employee pension funds. And Wall Street bond analysts questioned Mrs. Whitman's handling of the state's fiscal affairs. 
 The plan, allowing Governor Whitman to balance her election-year budget by cutting this year's state payment to the pension fund, to $97 million from $687 million, became the most contentious issue that she has faced since taking office. Because it is New Jersey's largest borrowing ever and the first time a state has borrowed so much to reduce pension liabilities, the plan cast a spotlight on the Governor's fiscal policies and tax cuts, which she did not need in an election year.
Democrats joined the criticism, arguing that the borrowing plan was the most vivid example of Mrs. Whitman's efforts to mortgage the future to pay for her tax cuts. To the surprise of pollsters, their criticism appears to have resonated with some voters and contributed to the recent decline in Mrs. Whitman's popularity.
Now that Mrs. Whitman finally won hard-fought legislative approval for the deal late Thursday night, and signed it into law minutes later, her top aides expect to put the issue behind them. They say that voters will forget the acrimonious debate by November, when Mrs. Whitman faces re-election.
But her newly chosen Democratic opponent thinks otherwise. State Senator James E. McGreevey said in an interview after Tuesday's Democratic primary that he intended to make the borrowing one of three major issues in the race, along with high property taxes and auto insurance rates.
The two Democrats who lost the primary election to Mr. McGreevey, Representative Robert E. Andrews and Michael Murphy, vowed to support him today and to use the pension borrowing as an issue. "The Governor signed a bill today, and she also signed a death warrant for the Republican Party with this pension bond bill," Mr. Murphy said at a party unity lunch yesterday. "New Jersey will remember in November."
Although it remains to be seen whether Mr. McGreevey can take a complicated borrowing plan and turn it into a bumper sticker issue, he can count on Democrats in legislative races this year to amplify his message in cities and towns across the state.
Badly punished by the voters for supporting Gov. Jim Florio's $2.8 billion tax increase in 1990, Democrats lost control of the Legislature in 1991. This is the first issue that they believe they can use to regain control. They need only six seats to take over the Senate.
"It gives us a very simple, concise message," State Senator Bernard F. Kenny, a Democrat from Hoboken, said. "The Governor had to borrow $2.75 billion to balance her budget."
In the Assembly, the Democratic leader, Joseph V. Doria, predicted that it would have major political fallout in legislative races. "This bond deal is hard to explain and easy to attack," he said. "If the Republican legislators who voted for this massive debt plan don't already know this, they have a cruel lesson to learn in the months to come."
But Senator Gerald Cardinale, a Republican from Cresskill, said he was confident that he would be able to defend the plan. "I'm a fiscal conservative," he said, "and this is a good plan for taxpayers."
Tom Wilson, Mrs. Whitman's campaign manager, also said that he was not worried about Democrats' criticism of the borrowing. "If they want to argue about economics, spending and taxes, we would be happy to have that discussion," he said. "I am very comfortable with the Governor's record, and I think that most voters are, as well."
While it will take Republicans only five months to find out whether the borrowing plan causes them trouble at the polls, it will be years before New Jerseyans know whether the bond issue was a brilliant fiscal move by Mrs. Whitman or her worst mistake.
Mrs. Whitman originally proposed borrowing $3.4 billion, but lowered it after Republican lawmakers objected. Under her revised plan, the state will borrow $2.75 billion to help pay off a $4.2 billion deficit in the state public employee pension system. The deficit was created during the last two decades when the state failed to put enough money aside to cover the cost of some benefits for retirees. That deficit ballooned during the Whitman administration from $800 million in 1994, in part because she lowered the state's payments and extended the payment schedule.
By using $2.75 billion from the borrowing, as well as $1.4 billion from investment gains on money already in the pension system, the state will eliminate the deficit this year.
The Legislature also voted on Thursday night to change the law and allow the state to use at least $2 billion from investment gains this year. State law previously required that the state take only 20 percent of its investment gains each year to help cushion the system from sudden downturns in the stock market.
Mrs. Whitman is also using $590 million in investment gains to lower this year's scheduled payment to the pension funds.
It will cost New Jersey taxpayers $12 billion to $14 billion over the next 35 years to cover the cost of the debt service on the borrowing. Annual payments on the debt service, which do not begin until next year, are less than $150 million for the next few years. Then they steadily climb to $505 million in the years 2021 through 2033.
Mrs. Whitman contends that the state is not creating new debt but is simply paying off existing deficit in a different way. She also argues that the plan will ultimately save taxpayers $45 million because the debt service payment on the bonds over 35 years will replace the state's previous 60-year schedule.
What she does not mention is that she extended the payment schedule on the deficit to 60 years from 40 years in 1994.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 11, 1997, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about criticism of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's borrowing plan for New Jersey's pension system misstated the amount she says the state would save. It is $45 billion, not $45 million.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "ADING IT UP: When the Loan COmes Due"
New Jersey taxpayers will pay more than $12 billion over the next 35 years to retire a $2.75 billion loan that Gov. Christie Todd Whitman will use to help cover the public employee pension system. Graph shows annual payments on the loan from 1998 to 2033. (Source: New Jersey Department of the Treasury)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS PENSION FUNDS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BONDS (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (73%); TAX INCREASES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); APPROVALS (70%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (67%); ROBBERY (56%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) ROBERT E ANDREWS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1997



121 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 6; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Into the Void

BYLINE: By Barbara Ehrenreich; Barbara Ehrenreich's latest book is "Blood Rites: Origins and History of the Passions of War."

 BODY:

AMERICAN NOMAD
 By Steve Erickson.
 256 pp. New York:
 Henry Holt & Company. $25. 
 You can see why Jann Wenner fired Steve Erickson. Assigned to cover the 1996 Presidential campaign for Rolling Stone, Mr. Erickson can't help running off into multipage riffs on such matters as the lives and oeuvres of Frank Sinatra and the obscure, L.A.-obsessed novelist Philip K. Dick. He's a lousy interviewer, tending to hit hard-eyed political operatives like James Carville with huge, soft questions on "the Meaning of America." And instead of chasing the candidates, he sometimes gets chased by them, as in the New Hampshire restaurant where he flees a stampeding crush of cameramen only to find Steve Forbes fleeing right behind him, a sick grin plastered to his face.
But who were you going to send to cover this season of collective ennui, when Americans briefly contemplated the great, unfinished project of democracy only to turn away in horror and self-loathing? Tim Russert, maybe? Even the immortal Hunter Thompson would have had trouble with '96, at least if he still believes you need drugs to induce a state of radical alienation from the content of our communal life. So you pretty much have to send a writer of surreal fiction, the author of novels where the sand dunes are drifting over a post-cataclysm Los Angeles and time is a loop, not a direction, endlessly returning us to the point of maximum loss. At least Mr. Erickson, whose cult following I signed up for after reading his novels "Days Between Stations" and "Tours of the Black Clock" some years ago, knows that there is a question about the meaning of America to ask.
For a while he carries off the pretense of being a more or less normal campaign correspondent. If he isn't exactly having fun yet, as his fellow journalists keep wanting to know, that's because of Mr. Wenner, who comes across as being a bit capricious and egomaniacal even for a national magazine editor. Besides, there is what you might call Mr. Erickson's "impostor syndrome" -- his niggling fear that everyone can tell he's not a real journalist but a representative of "the Enemy," whatever that may be these days.
Fortunately, neither handicap seems to have dimmed his eagle eye for the ambient madness, rage and yearning of the Presidential election season. He understands the cheap redemption white America sought in Colin Powell and how, when another high-profile African-American was acquitted of murder, white America decided to blow off redemption and stick with resentment and guilt. He notices creepy little details, like Steve Forbes's habit of making slashing gestures behind the lectern, where no one can see them, "as though the force of his conviction was something to be obscured and hidden, a secret passion, like renting pornographic videos." At best, Mr. Erickson functions like some high-tech psycho-medical sensing device inserted into the ravaged soul of American politics, observing, for example, of Lamar Alexander that "anyone boring enough that he had to wear a flannel shirt and slap an exclamation point after his name to make himself interesting was either sane to the point of inertia . . . or so metaphysically, bone-chillingly demented as to evoke the Void."
Then Mr. Wenner fires him, and Mr. Erickson becomes in some ways an even better witness to the events of '96 -- a nomad, downsized and adrift, watching the moiling candidates from an ever greater distance as he drives around the country listening to Patti Smith and Kurt Cobain tapes. Sometimes, in this phase, he doesn't seem to be paying enough attention to the campaign. But then, who was? "In a perverse way," he reflects, "I was covering the Presidential campaign perfectly, since it had slipped the moorings of logic as easily as I had." Besides, he was chasing after something a lot bigger -- the great Hegelian Geist that is America and that might be, for all we know, a good-natured Jeffersonian homesteader or a cold-eyed genocidal killer of Indians and Vietnamese. The answer seems to lie not in Chicago or San Diego but in Las Vegas and the radioactive deserts around it; "the American Empire's two most important contributions to the human race," he divines there, "were annihilation and fun."
Mr. Erickson's only failing, at least politically speaking, is that he's such a profoundly conventional guy: vaguely liberal on most issues, but all too ready to buy into such shibboleths as the Deficit and the Balanced Budget. Now maybe the deficit is what's sapping the polity, but if it's really just another bogeyman invented by the national superego, as some perfectly respectable economists argue, then the political process has become a whole lot more surreal than even Mr. Erickson guessed. What could be goofier than a campaign that was ultimately not about anything at all -- except perhaps the potlatch-style competitive raising and spending of huge sums of money? But Steve Erickson establishes one thing in this beautiful, crazed and weirdly patriotic book: Jann Wenner made a big mistake.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AMERICAN NOMAD (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); JOURNALISM (87%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (79%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); ELECTIONS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); RACE & RACISM (68%); 

PERSON: EHRENREICH, BARBARA; ERICKSON, STEVE JANN WENNER (78%); TIM RUSSERT (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



122 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 30; Column 4; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: CULTURE ZONE;
Taking Out the Trash

BYLINE: By Michiko Kakutani 

 BODY:
If, as the united States Government once believed, you are what you export, then America is in trouble.
During the early years of the cold war, the State Department and the United States Information Agency flooded Europe with demonstrations of America's cultural vitality, as the historian Richard Pells observes in his new book, "Not Like Us." There were concerts by Isaac Stern and Marian Anderson; plays by Eugene O'Neill, Thornton Wilder and Tennessee Williams; performances of Broadway musicals like "My Fair Lady," and appearances by jazz greats like Louis Armstrong, Benny Goodman and Dizzy Gillespie. The export of art was supposed to be a proud advertisement for the American way of life -- for democracy, freedom and the esthetic energy of the New World. 
 Today, with the globalization of American culture, it's clear that we won not only the cold war but also the battle for the world's leisure time. Culture has become one of our most lucrative exports (second only to aerospace technology), and the entire planet now ogles Pamela Anderson Lee, flocks to "Ace Ventura" and grooves to MTV. The problem is that we're now exporting Rambo-esque violence and Disneyesque sentimentality instead of serious art, and we're advertising escapism, consumerism and what Benjamin R. Barber, the author of "Jihad vs. McWorld," calls "the ideology of having fun." Hollywood, Barber writes, "inculcates secularism, passivity, consumerism, vicariousness, impulse buying and an accelerated pace of life, not as a result of its overt themes and explicit story lines but by virtue of what Hollywood is and how its products are consumed." While "stories told to a tribe around the campfire knit people together and reflect a common heritage," he says that Disney movies -- which "weave mythic stories around cartoon identities" -- "seem to celebrate multiculturalism even as they eradicate real difference."
The question isn't why American culture has gone global -- as scholars have told us, this is a simple function of the ascendancy of the English language, America's early mastery of the techniques of mass communication, the growing international demand for audiovisual product and the glossy production values of American entertainment. The question is why we've gone from exporting the best our culture has to offer to the worst.
Once upon a time, it was writers like Hemingway and Poe who were embraced abroad, and film makers like Welles and Ford. Today, it's John Grisham (who has the No. 1 best seller in Britain and Germany) and Richard North Patterson (who's at the top of Australia's list), and auteurs like Sylvester Stallone, Renny Harlin and Chris Columbus.
Certainly the world has given us some lemons: France gave us deconstruction, and Britain gave us "Cats." But the world has also given us many wonderful things: movies by Truffaut, Fellini, Bergman and Kurosawa, and the magical realism of Jorge Luis Borges and Gabriel Garcia Marquez. It has given us Toyotas, Volvos, Armanis, soccer and sushi. In return, we've given the world shopping malls, theme parks, Big Macs, Planet Hollywood, "The Price Is Right" and endless reruns of "Dynasty" and "Dallas."
In 1995, "Seven" was the top-grossing film in Paris; "Die Hard 3" in Hungary and Japan. "The Celestine Prophecy" has become a best seller in Canada, Brazil, Sweden and Denmark, while the memoir of Amy Fisher was a best seller in Holland. Great Britain loves "Babylon 5," Estonia digs "The Dating Game," and Russia watches "Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman" and "Santa Barbara" every night.
Some of America's cultural exports are so awful that you begin to suspect that we're using the rest of the world as a vast toxic waste dump, and charging for the privilege. Even movies and TV shows that fail miserably in the States are often shipped overseas -- with lucrative results. Kevin Costner's infamous "Waterworld" made only $90 million at home but racked up nearly $176 million in foreign sales, and "Striptease" more than doubled its domestic box office abroad.
"Baywatch," that inane cavalcade of cavorting California hunks and babes, was initially canceled after one season on NBC, but it has gone on to be seen by more people on the planet than any other entertainment show in history. It's heard in 15 different languages and seen in some 144 countries, including Iran (where it brings in the top ticket price at illegal satellite-dish screenings) and China. As for Michael Jackson, his tarnished reputation and falling record sales in the States have done little to affect his international status as the King of Pop: although his 1995 album "HIStory" sold only three million copies in America, it sold an estimated nine million abroad. No wonder that his current tour, which has taken him to Asia, Australia and Eastern Europe, included only one scheduled appearance on U.S. soil -- in Hawaii.
In the realm of international commerce, books, movies and TV shows aren't regarded as art or even as entertainment but as commodities, and they're sold on a calculated basis of what will reach the largest of all possible audiences. Increasingly, they're distributed by huge conglomerates like Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, which owns not only 20th Century Fox, Fox Television and Fox Video in the States but also a large share of British Sky Broadcasting and Star TV, an Asian satellite network that reaches three dozen more countries.
Estimates of foreign revenues are now routinely figured into advances given to authors and budgets approved for movies. As production and marketing costs rise and the domestic moviegoing audience remains static, studios have begun to second-guess what will sell in Tokyo, Hamburg and Mexico City, as well as in Topeka and Orlando. The growing tendency to go for the lowest common denominator is accelerated further when it comes to exports. After all, action movies, with minimal subtitles, cross linguistic barriers more easily than dramas built on dialogue and nuance. (Boys with toys travel well, the saying goes.) Flashy visuals and special effects transcend cultural differences more easily than intellectual arguments. Physical humor translates more easily than verbal brilliance. And name-brand stars can "open" a movie globally more easily than a versatile character actor.
Is this why Sylvester Stallone received the Legion of Honor in France? And why Iranians love "Oprah" and "Dynasty"? And why the British are addicted to "The Ricki Lake Show"? One suspects that something more than an appetite for trash is involved, that part of the reason these exports are so popular is that they confirm people's closely held stereotypes about America -- particularly the image of a vulgar, grossly materialistic superpower. The Russians -- whose favorite TV program is "Field of Miracles," a game show modeled on "Wheel of Fortune" -- get to snicker at American capitalism even as they embrace it. The Iranians get to leer at -- and deplore -- American decadence and our obsession with money and sex. And the French, who have famously embraced Jerry Lewis, American comics and American B movies in the past, get to condescendingly praise American energy and rawness and feel culturally superior to us.
In "Not Like Us," Pells notes that Jean-Paul Sartre complimented American writers like Hemingway for "their stylistic restraint, their focus on physical action and their refusal to scrutinize or speculate" -- implying "that American writers would be well to leave the deep thoughts and avant-garde experiments to the French or the Germans."
For foreign countries, the dangers of America's growing export of cultural junk is obvious: it poses a threat to their indigenous cultures, values and economies. The danger for America is more insidious: the ratification of our global role not only as cultural imperialists but also as cultural imperialists with bad taste, and the development of what can only be called a boomerang effect. In a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy, more and more dumbed-down blockbusters are made in anticipation of what we think foreign markets want, and then foisted upon the world and Americans alike, making us victims, too, of our own patronizing export scheme.
As one former studio head told Entertainment Weekly: "It's less risky to make an $80 million Event Movie, because you can sell it globally and merchandise it With consumer products. You're better off making two or three $80 million movies than 15 movies for $20 million."
This, then, may be the payback that America suffers for using the rest of the world as a garbage dump: we become more mired ourselves in the trash that we so cynically produce.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "WATERWORLD" (PHOTOGRAPH FROM PHOTOFEST)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (78%); GERMANY (73%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (53%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (84%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (84%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (78%); GERMANY (73%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET COLD WAR (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); WRITERS (89%); HISTORY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); FILM (74%); MUSIC (71%); MUSICAL THEATER (70%); 

PERSON: KAKUTANI, MICHIKO JOHN GRISHAM (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



123 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 3; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: Westchester Q&A: Dr. Fawaz A. Gerges;
Considering Iran Under Moderate Rule

BYLINE: By DONNA GREENE 

 BODY:
THE recent election of a man considered a moderate as president of Iran has many political observers, including President Clinton, wondering and hoping that relations between the United States and Iran can be normalized for the first time in almost 20 years.
But Dr. Fawaz A. Gerges, a professor at Sarah Lawrence College and an expert on modern history of the Middle East, argues that the West should not expect major changes in Iran. On the other hand, he also rejects soundly the idea espoused by some that the West and the Islamic world are heading for a major confrontation, a so-called clash of civilizations. 
 Born in Lebanon and a naturalized American citizen, Dr. Gerges (pronounced zher-JESS) has written many scholarly articles about the Middle East and given lectures as well, including a recent series at the Reformed Church in Bronxville. His second book, "New Threat From the East? American Foreign Policy Toward Political Islam, From Carter to Clinton," will be published this year by Cambridge University Press. Dr. Gerges has taught at Sarah Lawrence for three years, where he holds the Christian A. Johnson Endeavor Chair in International Affairs and Middle Eastern Studies. Here are excerpts from a recent conversation with him:
Q. What do you make of the election of Mohammed Khatami last month as Iran's new president? Will we see major changes in Iran?
A. Basically, the regime in Iran was hoping to have a status quo election. Suddenly, they lost control of the whole thing. It seems to me that there is so much alienation in Iran, in particular, on the part of the youths of Iran. And it's ironic because here you have a revolution that had as its main motive to improve the lives of the poor and the lower class. Yet, alienation runs very deep.
But we should not expect any radical changes. You have to accept the main principles and premises of the revolution to participate in the political process. Iran has what I call a relatively democratic process.
You can participate as long as you accept the main parameters of what the Islamic Revolution is all about. So in this particular sense, I don't think we should expect any radical changes. And the president does not have the ultimate say, in the sense of a British prime minister. The power resides in the hands of the ayatollah. I think we should not expect any changes there. Change has to come from the bottom up, not from the top down.
Q. Why are the young so alienated in Iran?
A. There is a generation that does not have much background about the shah. This generation is very alienated, and this particular generation wants to have freedom. This generation does not have as many opportunities as earlier generations. The clergy came on the promise that they really wanted to create a moral society. We hear now of great scandals and corruption. We hear of torture and killings and imprisoning youths. There is much dissatisfaction in Iran, and this dissatisfaction is related to the emergence of the youths, who are economically and politically marginalized and do not have the same strong feelings about the shah as the revolutionaries.
It has been 17, 18 years. Let's be frank about it. Most Iranians had expected the cleric regime to bring about some radical changes. There are no changes. In terms of economic statistics, the economic situation has deteriorated under the clergy regime in Iran. On every single scale. At the end of the day, they have to put bread on the table.
Q. You have disagreed with the clash of civilization hypothesis about the West and the Middle East. Would you define the hypothesis?
A. In an essay in "Foreign Affairs" in the summer of 1993, Prof. Samuel Huntington of Harvard argued that the fundamental conflict in this new world would not be primarily ideological or economic any longer, that the great division among human kind and the dominating source of conflict would be cultural. The clash of civilizations would dominate global politics. He argued further that the most important conflicts would take place along cultural lines separating the West from non-Western civilizations, particularly the clash between Islam and the West. This particular argument I would relate to the end of the Cold War and the collapse of the Soviet Union in that this idea of the march of Islam has gained currency in the West only after those events.
For some scholars and politicians, Islam has replaced the red menace as the new principal strategic threat to Western civilization. Professor Huntington made some of the most stimulating arguments in this area.
Q. What are your reasons for disagreeing?
A. My argument is that Islam is one of the most fragmented and splintered religions of the world. The notion of a unitary Islam is very misleading because of the multiplicity of interpretations. For example, when observers discuss Islam, are they speaking of the conservative Islam of Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Pakistan, or the revolutionary Islam practiced in Iran and Sudan? One of the major reasons behind the dynamism in Islam lies in its ability for constant renewal and adaptation. Unlike other religions, Islam has been interpreted and is interpreted continuously to meet and adjust to new conditions.
This is what the whole notion of the clash of civilizations neglects to mention, that it takes for granted that the Muslim world is united. I would argue that the clash of civilizations hypotheses is ahistorical because Islam is not monolithic. The idea of a timeless unitary threat exists in the imagination of some scholars.
Paradoxically, the idea of Islam on the march is propagated by a strange combination of rival political camps. The idea is propagated by some eastern regimes such as Egypt, Algeria and Israel, who are under assault by a vigorous Islamic opposition. It's also propagated by some elements in the West who want to turn the Eastern world into another enemy. And finally, it's propagated by some Islamic militants who resent the West's influence and advocate a confrontation with them.
The militants that really advocate a confrontation with the West represent a tiny fraction within the Muslim world. Unfortunately, this tiny minority is very vocal and dedicated and makes its voice heard by a variety of means, including violence. It's worth noting, by the way, that the overwhelming majority of Muslims live outside the Middle East. There are more Muslims living in Indonesia than there are throughout the Arab lands -- yet hardly any attention is given to the relatively democratic Malaysia, Pakistan and Jordan.
Q. What about Iraq? Can we expect any changes there?
A. The situation in Iraq is truly very complex. The American embargo -- the complete embargo -- I would argue has really consolidated the regime of Saddam Hussein. Many of Iraq's people have come to believe that America really is trying to punish the Iraqi people. Instead of blaming Saddam Hussein for his bloody actions and blunders, now they blame the United States. As you know, Iraq has one of the bloodiest security forces in the world. Dozens of coup d'etats have been attempted in Iraq since 1990-91. The question is, Will one succeed? Surely, the situation on a human level is very desperate in Iraq. Tens of thousands of children have died as a result of the embargo. There is famine, suffering on a large scale. All of those factors have contributed, unfortunately, to the consolidation of the Iraqi regime. When people are starved, they don't have time or energy for politics.
Q. How have you as a Lebanese-American been treated?
A. I think I am one of the fortunate few who has never personally encountered discrimination. But we know discrimination is widespread. After the Oklahoma bombing, more than 200 attacks took place against Arabs and Muslims after people and newspapers speculated about terrorists from the Mideast being responsible. In the minds of many Westerners, Islam has become synonymous with terrorists. The evidence supplied by the F.B.I. and the State Department paints a different picture. Take 1993, when radicals with Muslim backgrounds bombed the World Trade Center. According to the F.B.I., the bombing of the World Trade Center, as reprehensible as it was, was the only violent act committed domestically by people from Muslim backgrounds for that year. The F.B.I. and the State Department reported 72 attacks by Puerto Ricans, 23 attacks by left-wing groups, 16 by Jewish groups and one attack by an anti-Castro group.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Fawaz A. Gerges, professor at Sarah Lawrence College. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LEBANON (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HISTORY (72%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: GERGES, FAWAZ A (DR); GREENE, DONNA; KHATAMI, MOHAMMED BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



124 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 21; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Stamford as a Factory Town, Making Locks, Trading Bonds

BYLINE: By BESS LIEBENSON 

 BODY:
A CITY'S progression from factory hub to research center to the country's third largest corporate headquarters is the coming-of-age story of Stamford. In its exhibition "Technology, Jobs and an American City" on view through Nov. 9, the Stamford Historical Society charts the city's evolution from past to present and into the future.
It's a tale of how Stamford metamorphosed from a factory city (a period lasting 100 years) to its 40-year reign as research center, to today's corporate culture. 
 "We're calling it from blue collar, to white collar to no collar," said Linda Baulsir, the Historical Society's executive director. "Initially we planned to focus on the technological advances that came out of Stamford's industry. But as our planning committee talked about it, we realized that technology did not occur in a vacuum, that we had to look at the infrastructure and the work force."
The exhibition, two years in the making, spreads through four galleries. Starting with Stamford's industrial development, players are revealed through old photographs, products produced locally, machines, videos and electronics. Voice overs, part of the W.P.A. Writers Project tell of their work life in Stamford.
Life-size figures clothed in the style of the time (created by the Stamford artist Anne Salthouse) punctuate different sections.
Nearly 150 years of Stamford's history is separated into four phases of economic growth: "The Lock Manufacturing Years," "The Research Years," "The Corporate Years" and "The Beyond."
In 1844 Stamford Manufacturing Company converted a 1790's grist mill, to pulverize tropical wood, and went on to become a leading manufacturer and world distributor of natural dyes. By 1900 Yale & Towne, the world's first manufacturer of mass-produced locks and pocketable keys, became the city's largest employer, turning Stamford into an active factory town. The company generated its own power, had its own foundry, provided health care, a company store, housing and an apprentice school. "Almost everyone in Stamford had someone, a relative or friend working for Yale & Towne," Ms. Baulsir said. Then, in 1924, Pitney Bowes invented a postage meter and became the largest supplier of postage meters in the world. Visitors enjoy putting envelopes through a display machine for a souvenir stamping of the exhibit.
Smaller but significant companies are represented by an upright piano, a sewing machine, a typewriter and a bicycle. Other products displayed reflect the influence of Phillips Chemical Company (milk of magnesia), Schick Dry Shaver Inc. (the electric shaver), Globe Slicing machine, Blickensderfer typewriter (whose cylinders are said to have predated I.B.M.'s Selectric by more than 50 years) and Bristol Myers Squibb Company (originally Clairol).
When manufacturers failed during the Depression, leaving behind large buildings that could be adapted, Stamford in the late 1930's redefined itself as a research city.
As Yale & Towne downsized, CBS Laboratories moved in to take advantage of the skilled work force. They developed a long player record, color television technology and a video recording system that was the precursor of the V.C.R. Machlett Laboratories, Inc. made night scopes during the Vietnam War and developed x-ray tubes for medical use. And the Perkin-Elmer Corporation developed the spectrophotometer, an instrument to analyze the composition and structure of organic molecules.
"In the Yale & Towne and Pitney Bowes era, we were inventing in the back garage," Ms. Baulsir pointed out, in contrast to "The Beyond" section where a virtual reality video of Swiss Bank, scheduled to open in downtown Stamford this fall, unveils a learning center and football-sized arena for 600 securities traders, part of a 12-acre financial services center.
Another section of the exhibition demonstrates how even quilts, one of the oldest crafts, have joined the computer age.
The Stamford Historical Society, 1508 High Ridge Road, Stamford, is open Tuesday through Sunday from noon to 4 P.M.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reminders of Stamford's past, clockwise from top left: Yale & Towne lock and keys, a Blickensderfer typewriter, the High Ridge Office Park, an advertisement for Clairol hair coloring products, an Eagle Safety Bicycle from the 1890's, Brown Brothers Brass Foundry worker and a Schleicher & Sons upright piano.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (84%); PBI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS325991 CUSTOM COMPOUNDING OF PURCHASED RESINS (61%); SIC3087 CUSTOM COMPOUNDING OF PURCHASED RESINS (61%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: STAMFORD HISTORICAL SOCIETY (CONN) BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (84%); PHILLIPS CHEMICAL CO (61%); PITNEY BOWES INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: STAMFORD HISTORICAL SOCIETY (CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REVIEWS HISTORY (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); OFFICE EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); TRENDS (76%); BOND MARKETS (74%); CORPORATE CULTURE (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WRITERS (72%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); BONDS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (66%); CHEMICALS (64%); CHEMICALS MFG (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: LIEBENSON, BESS MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



125 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 12; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: OUT OF ORDER;
Where the Elite Meet to Meet

BYLINE: By DAVID BOUCHIER; David Bouchier of Wading River is an essayist and commentator heard regularly on public radio.

 BODY:
CONFERENCES sprout like dandelions in the smooth lawn of summer. Every group in the tristate area, from grocery wholesalers to nuclear physicists, must hold an annual conference between May and September. Those who can't afford to go to northern Italy, or even to San Francisco, come to the wide open spaces of Long Island. At this time of year, you can't enter a hotel, a resort or a popular restaurant anywhere near the ocean without encountering a boistrous group of insurance salesmen or science teachers, over-excited at being away from home and wearing big labels saying things like, "Hi I'm Randy -- vice president for Revolving Door Maintenance."
The origins of the annual conference are lost in history. Students of human deviousness believe that conferences evolved from the universal habit of holding meetings. As everybody knows, meetings are a splendid way of wasting time, avoiding personal responsibility, and above all escaping work. In any large organization, your status depends on the number of meetings you attend. Really important people are in meetings from morning till night, and the people at the bottom do the actual work. 
 Conferences are inflated meetings, where more time can be wasted more efficiently at much greater expense. Nobody is immune to their delights. Academics have refined the art of conferencing to its highest point, dividing their fields into so many disciplines, sub-disciplines and sub-sub-disciplines that the skillful professor can spend virtually the entire year in conferences and never enter a classroom at all. Doctors and lawyers have the most luxurious conferences, in plush resorts in remote countries at the best time of year. In general, the wealthier the group, the farther they must travel from home in order to talk to one another. Small, nonprofit organizations end up holding their conferences in Phoenix in August, when hotel rooms are almost free. On Long Island, fancy conferences happen in the Hamptons, and humbler events are found in hotels just off the expressway. The final degeneration of the conference is the "retreat," held at a local community hall or at the boss's house for a single day. This is an infallible sign that the slush fund has run out, and employees would be well-advised to start scanning the small ads.
The conference flourishes as an institution, not because it is the slightest practical use, but because it offers escape without guilt. We've all read reports of recent research that tells the awful truth about hard-working parents -- namely that they really like to be away from their families. What better excuse to wave goodbye for a few days than a conference far from home? Nobody expects any results from a conference, so you have no performance anxiety. And, unless it happens to be a Baptist convention, nobody will censure your bad behavior. They will be too busy behaving badly themselves. It's like being back in college.
And it is good to spend time with your tribe. If you spend most of your waking hours working, say, on muffler repair or Mayan architecture, your family is sick and tired of hearing about them. Most time at conferences is spent in the intensive discussion of the secrets of the tribe and the rituals of tribal warfare. That's why conference programs are almost incomprehensible to outsiders, with titles like "Managerial Discourse on Quality Circles as an Organizational Innovation" or "The Clinical Use of Spondaic Vulgarisms in the Assessment of Hearing Aids."
The very best thing about conferences is that everybody wears a label, stating their name, their organization and their status. The act of peering at people's labels is often a good introduction. If you've ever wasted time at a party or in the post office, talking to somebody who may not be important and whose name you have forgotten, you will know how valuable this labeling habit is. It should be adopted by society at large. Food products must carry a label proclaiming the ingredients, and surely we social products should not be left behind. How useful it would be in everyday life if we all announced ourselves on our bosoms. When I meet somebody for the first time, I like to know not only their name, but their education, occupation, income level, marital status, politics ideal and actual weight, favorite author, allergies and attitude toward cats. Discovering all this could take hours of conversation. An expanded version of the conference label would make it quick and easy.
Conferencing is not all fun and games, of course. There are the actual meetings, which are invariably as tedious as a weekend locked in a hotel room with Ross Perot. Not all the people who volunteer to speak at conferences are gifted with eloquence, and often not even with the basic ability to articulate words or read a script. A "keynote speaker" is usually engaged for the opining session, who may be a distinguished expert or (if funds are tight) may have been hired from a speakers' bureau at the last minute and composed his or her inspirational thoughts on the L.I.R.R.
Everyone needs and deserves a conference from time to time, especially the poor and the unemployed who don't usually get such treats. It's one of those inalienable rights that comes under the general heading of "the pursuit of happiness": a few nights in a good hotel, free meals, lots of people to talk to and a big label to remind you and everyone else who you are.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (93%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); PHYSICS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); FAMILY (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); GROCERIES WHOLESALERS (73%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); HISTORY (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BOUCHIER, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



126 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: New Owners for the State's Only Zoo

BYLINE: By ROBIN F. DeMATTIA 

 BODY:
THE Beardsley Zoological Gardens in Bridgeport houses 300 animals and attracts more than 200,000 visitors annually from throughout the state and region. But the zoo -- which celebrates its 75th anniversary this year and has recently undergone a change of ownership to the Connecticut Zoological Society from the city -- was once home to 1,000 animals, including circus retirees and unwanted pets, and drew only local visitors.
The history of the zoo begins with well-known Bridgeport resident Phineas T. Barnum who, in the early part of the century, exercised his circus animals along the streets of Bridgeport. When people began to congregate in Beardsley Park to watch camels and zebras stroll by, the Parks Commissioner, Wesley Hayes, started a campaign for a city zoo to be founded in the park; it was 1920. 
 Within the first year 18 exotic birds were donated, including macaws, toucans, canaries, cockatoos, parrots, parakeets, pheasants and peacocks. The animals were a highlight of the 100-acre parkland, which had been donated in 1878 by James W. Beardsley, a wealthy cattle dealer.
By 1927 the Beardsley zoo had acquired exotic animals such as helmeted cassowaries, kangaroos, zebras and a camel donated by the Barnum and Bailey Circus. Then the zoo expanded at such a rate that by 1956 there were more than 1,000 animals in the collection, including vervet monkeys, a Skye's guenon, a Java macaque, a sooty mangabey, spider monkeys, ring-tail lemurs, woodchucks, a coatimundi, porcupines, Galapagos tortoises, spectacled caiman and several other varieties of reptiles. Around this time zoos began to shy away from having "postage-stamp" collections with many types of animals, instead opting to serve as breeding havens for endangered species. The Beardsley zoo adopted this philosophy, and by 1962 had only around 500 animals in its collection. Caring for the animals was a challenge for city workers, who were not trained zookeepers.
"We did everything by hand," recalls John Angelucci of Bridgeport, a retired truck driver for the city who helped at the zoo. "We used to cut our own hay, which we grew on an old farm on Bond Street, and we raised our own vegetables: sugar beets, tomatoes, cabbage." Each day Mr. Angelucci drove to the former Berkshire Bakery to collect truckloads of stale bread and to an A&P supermarket for donations of overripe or damaged fruit and vegetables.
Rich Cannone of Bridgeport, who retired in 1994 after 25 years as a Beardsley zoo keeper, also recalls the manual labor requirements. "We didn't have backhoes or bucketloaders," Mr. Cannone explained. "When we had to put manure on a dump truck, we did it by hand. And we had a lot more animals, and manure, back then."
He said today's zookeepers may have more education, but that "you still need a strong back and a willingness to get down and dirty in the mud" to be a zookeeper. Mr. Cannone recalled working with a dozen bison in an exhibition smaller than the current space that houses two bison. And years ago he had to hold animals himself -- including a leopard -- when cages needed cleaning because the exhibitions didn't have alternative spaces where animals could be safely locked away.
Robert Ramos Sr., of Stratford, who worked at the Beardsley zoo in the 1960's and 1970's, said, "Back then you got your experience on the job." But Mr. Ramos added that the employees "did more crazy stuff." For example, a co-worker used to swim with the seals in their pool. "Everything is more professional now," Mr. Ramos said.
Mr. Ramos said it became more organized when Gregg Dancho, who began volunteering at the Beardsley zoo in 1975, took over. Mr. Dancho began at the zoo as a way to advance his love for animals and earn class credits at Bunnell High School in Stratford. Though he wanted a zoo career, Mr. Dancho says the Beardsley zoo in 1975 "didn't really look like it was going anywhere, and I wanted to go where people really cared about their facility, like the Bronx Zoo."
Instead, he saw the Beardsley zoo's potential and became a full-time zookeeper in 1980 and the zoo's director in 1983. "When I became director I was able to implement some plans and saw the zoo move forward, and I felt better about staying."
The plans included meeting new zoo licensing requirements enacted by the Federal Department of Agriculture in the late 1970's and early 1980's. "There were stringent restrictions that forced a lot of zoos to close," says Phillip Handy, Bridgeport's director of parks and recreation. "They didn't want animals kept on concrete; they wanted them on nonpaved substances that were well drained. The regulations forced you to build new exhibits."
Mr. Handy says the city decided to update the zoo rather than close it. "It had been around a while and was the only zoo in the state, so it was important to maintain that stature."
Using state money, the zoo in 1986 modified the hoofed stock area -- home to bison, white-tail deer and pronghorn antelope. They also converted the former "monkey house" into a South American rain forest in 1992 at a cost of $1 million; the building now showcases monkeys, an ocelot and birds like macaws and scarlet ibis in an open aviary. Mr. Dancho pursued professional accreditation for the Beardsley zoo from the American Zoo and Aquarium Association in 1987. "We worked hard to get it," he said." The zoo, he went on, increased its education programs, reinstated the docent program, and focused on hiring professional staff with college backgrounds.
A year later the Connecticut Zoological Society hired its first full-time employee, Lisa Tryon, who became executive director. There are now six full-time staff members, and the society has trained more than 300 volunteers, who help run events and educate the public during zoo tours and programs. Ms. Tryon developed the Beardsley zoo's first newsletter, color brochures and television commercials.
Perhaps most importantly, the Connecticut Zoological Society's fund-raising efforts contribute to the Beardsley zoo. Last year, the society gave the zoo $504,000 to purchase items such as lab equipment, signage and exotic animal foods ($350 per month for bugs to feed the insectivores, for example.) The city's $608,000 budget for the zoo pays operating expenses.
All this changed at the end of May, however, when five years of negotiations to transfer ownership of the city-owned zoo to the Connecticut Zoological Society were completed. "The city wanted to sell the zoo and totally privatize it to make debt payments," Ms. Tryon explained. "But five years ago the society had only two full-time employees and one part-time employee, and didn't have the capabilities to run the zoo." She says the negotiations have resulted in more of a partnership. "The agreement is quite different than originally proposed. The city will help continue to maintain the zoo, the state will help and the society will manage the zoo with their assistance."
Mr. Dancho says the zoo transfer "won't have much of an impact on the workings of the zoo, but being a private entity will help us get support from private individuals and corporations."
But both Ms. Tryon and Mr. Dancho wish the state would provide more of a commitment to the Beardsley zoo, because it is the state's only zoo and a major tourist attraction.
"A poll by the American Zoo and Aquarium Association proved that more people go to zoos in one year than all sporting events combined," Ms. Tryon said. "It's still a huge, quality family experience. It's part of every child's experience to go to a zoo." She says that Gov. John G. Rowland expressed interest in furthering science education, and that the zoo helps teachers through class visits by more than 50,000 students annually. The zoo's educators and volunteers also visit schoolchildren statewide throughout the year during zoomobile presentations.
Over the next 10 to 20 years, construction should take place for an Asian plateau, Arctic tundra, educational complex with theater and exhibition hall, visitor services like food stands and restrooms, and an administration building.
"We've been focused on North and South American animals for so long it would be nice to set up new exhibit areas," Mr. Dancho explained. "We would like to bring in more endangered species and beautiful animals such as red panda, snow leopard and sun bear."
Mr. Dancho says the zoo could be a key to Bridgeport's revitalization: "When you talk about economic development, education, recreation, family values and quality of life, the zoo fits most of the bills."
 
Summer at the Zoo
Next SUNDAY, from 5 to 7 P.M., the zoo is the site of a children's concert with a Caribbean theme. On JUNE 21 a Summer Solstice Folk Festival takes place from 1 to 9.
More concerts -- JULY 12 with Hugh Blumenfeld and AUG. 23 with the Burns Sisters -- are planned. And not to be forgotten is the TEDDY BEARS PICNIC on AUG. 17.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Beardsley Zoological Gardens: woolly monkey in the rain forest exhibit, left, and peacock in full plumage. (Photographs by Gale Zucker for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Lisa Tryon, executive director of the Connecticut Zoological Society, shows a Honduran milk snake to wary admirers. Scarlet ibises are among the Bridgeport zoo's attractions. (Photographs by Gale Zucker for The New York Times)(pg. 17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY; BEARDSLEY ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS (BRIDGEPORT)

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY; BEARDSLEY ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS (BRIDGEPORT)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ZOOS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (95%); ANIMALS (91%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); PRIMATES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (89%); BIRDS (88%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); PETS (73%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (70%); TRUCK DRIVERS (69%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); BAKERIES (60%); 

PERSON: DEMATTIA, ROBIN F

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



127 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 6; Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Paper Fights To Stay Alive

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA ROWE 

DATELINE: PEEKSKILL

 BODY:
ELEVEN years ago, three reporters combined their ambition with an American Express card and opened a newspaper on South Street here. They did not want to write about grand national plans or state policies. The Peekskill Herald would be a local paper -- as local as news gets -- with coverage of high school sports, mom-and-pop stores and plain folks living around the corner. But weekly coverage of this small, struggling city has buried the paper in debt.
Last month, Kathy Daley, the editor, and Regina Clarkin O'Leary, the publisher, took the unusual step of making their finances public and putting their future in the hands of readers. 
 "Can This Newspaper Be Saved?" they wrote in a headline over a front page editorial on April 10. "For 11 years, since the founding of The Peekskill Herald in 1986, we've told the truth," the editorial said. "Sometimes the truth was difficult to hear. What we are about to say is difficult to write."
They then said that $55,000 was owed to the Internal Revenue Service, New York State and various suppliers, in part because of financial problems with their parent company, Malibu Inc. in Manhattan, and because of uncollected revenue from advertisers. The newspaper is currently severing its ties with Malibu Inc.
If The Herald could not come up with $20,000 immediately, the publisher said, the I.R.S. would shut it down on May 2. "It was really hard to tell the public what we were going through -- we agonized over the decision -- but it's their paper," said Ms. Clarkin O'Leary, a Peekskill native. "We could have closed up, sold off the computers and pretty much paid off our debts. But we didn't want to do that -- creep out in the dark of night. People would be like, 'Where's our newspaper?' "
Within six days of the editorial, The Herald received more than 70 letters and checks from readers totaling $3,100. By the end of the next week, the paper had $8,000, and the I.R.S. extended its shutdown deadline to May 15.
Now, more than a month after their front-page plea, Ms. Clarkin O'Leary and Ms. Daley say they have collected more than $14,600, paid their taxes and are wondering how to thank hundreds of well-wishers they have never met.
Robert J. Kobel, a spokesman for the I.R.S. in Brooklyn, confirmed that all liens against the newspaper have been dropped, stopping any immediate action against it.
"It's the little guys out there, the regular readers, the people whose names we only know from the subscription list," said Ms. Clarkin O'Leary, marveling at the latest pile of cards and checks on her desk. One envelope included a lottery ticket and $50.
With her contribution, Sister Ann Thomas of St. Columbanus School wrote: "It matters to us very dearly if we were ever to lose your newspaper. You certainly will be in our prayers. God bless you."
Not every reader had such good wishes. Paul E. Ustic assailed The Herald for asking for help after supporting higher school taxes.
Others, like Michael J. O'Shaughnessy, criticized the paper's editorial stance, but contributed, nonetheless. "Although your voice is not my voice or that of countless other subscribers, your paper does serve a noble purpose in keeping the residents of Peekskill informed as to what transpires in their town," he wrote to the editor. "Thursdays would not be the same without you."
Residents have also come forward with more than checks. Edward Hartley, who owns a tax arbitration concern in Tarrytown, helped The Herald in negotiations with the I.R.S. Marcia Timonen Figueroa gave a Tupperware party and made $250 for the paper. The Student Council of Peekskill High School organized a car wash and contributed more than $400.
Since founding the paper, Ms. Clarkin O'Leary, 39, and Ms. Daley, 49, have built up a staff of 9 office employees, serving 3,800 readers. They still lack a full-time reporter, so Ms. Daley covers school board meetings after she has written the week's editorials. The production department -- a long table strewn with old papers -- sits outside Ms. Clarkin O'Leary's cluttered office. The two women, who used to deliver the paper themselves, said they each make about $21,000 a year. Rich Zahradnik, one of the original founders, left seven years ago, and is now with CNN.
This is not the first time The Herald has fought for its life. Gannett Suburban Newspapers, which owns most of the dailies in Westchester County, has been luring away advertisers since Day 1. As it has done in other municipalities throughout the county, Gannett bought The Evening Star, the only daily paper in Peekskill, in 1985, moved its offices out of the city and broadened The Star's coverage to include more of Westchester with less local news. "People complained about that a lot," Ms. Clarkin O'Leary said. "People in Peekskill didn't want to read obituaries from all over the place.
"Gannett's move left a perfect niche for The Herald's local focus. Each week, the paper dedicates itself to a different subscriber. On May 1, it was the 'Hometown Newspaper of Betty Teahan.' "
The police report included a complaint from Grand Union that there was a religious group on the premises of the supermarket. Stories focused on the school board race and highlighted a hospital benefit.
"The Herald is really about people and special events that are meaningful to the community," Mayor Frances S. Gibbs said. "The Gannett paper touches the high spots of the news. They're very different. We need them both."
The Mayor's sentiments are echoed statewide. Last year, New York weeklies had a 20 percent increase in circulation, largely because they provided the kind of information -- garbage pickup days, local school and crime reports -- that readers could not get elsewhere, said Michelle Rea, executive director of the New York Press Association.
Despite The Herald's loyal readership, money has always been tight. Last month, local businesses owed $20,000 in unpaid advertisements. About half have paid since then, some adding donations.
At the same time, the Peekskill-Cortlandt Chamber of Commerce is urging its members to increase their advertising in an effort to help both the paper and Peekskill's economy.
"People do read The Herald," William J. Powers, executive director of the Chamber of Commerce, said. "People do go into the stores after reading the articles about them. It obviously has a direct economic impact on the area."
No matter how much the community may seem to want its own newspaper, Ms. Daley and Ms. Clarkin O'Leary doubt that it can support one over time. They are investigating nonprofit status and group ownership plans.
Meanwhile, Peekskill residents cling to their beleaguered weekly. "Although I have very seldom agreed with editorial positions of The Herald," said one reader, Andy Joppa, "they have provided an invaluable public service in providing a forum for an issues debate. Without them, I think our community is lessened."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%); AMX (LSE) (58%); AMEXP (PAR) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PEEKSKILL HERALD MALIBU INC (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEEKSKILL HERALD INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PEEKSKILL (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FINANCES TAXES & TAXATION (88%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); TAX AUTHORITIES (66%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (57%); 

PERSON: DALEY, KATHY; O'LEARY, REGINA CLARKIN; ROWE, CLAUDIA

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



128 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: Struggling to Turn a Life Around

BYLINE: By JULIE MILLER 

 BODY:
THE story of Laura O'Brien's early life is like the stories of many other women at York Correctional Institution in Niantic. She began her life as a victim of physical and emotional abuse. She said she has nightmares about the way her mother tried to kill her and her sister by suffocating them with her hands or a pillow. Memories of the time her mother stabbed her and the day her mother tied her to a chair and turned on the gas still haunt her.
Ms. O'Brien's father tried to prevent her mother's rages by buying her things. The gifts, bought with fraudulent checks, made her mother happy and eased her daughter's fears. But the bad checks eventually caught up with her father, and he was arrested and served time in jail. While he was away, Ms. O'Brien became the caretaker of the family and again the target of her mother's abuse. She began shopping compulsively and writing fraudulent checks, as her father had done, in order to win her mother's love, she said. 
 Ms. O'Brien's search for security and love drove her into marriage at 18. But her troubles were far from over. Three weeks after the marriage, she went to jail for six months for check fraud. But that failed to cure her.
As she attempted to soothe her feelings of emptiness and loneliness, her addiction to spending money continued. "I bought items to make life easier for my husband and family: a motorcycle, a down payment on a house, vacations and clothing. I was in such a depression I didn't recognize my familiar behavior pattern. It was just like my life as a child," Ms. O'Brien said.
Today, the 28-year-old woman, who has three young children, has served four years of a 10-year sentence for check fraud. She spent a year of that time in maximum security after getting involved in disciplinary problems and attempting to hang herself, she said.
While in prison, Ms. O'Brien found help in turning her life around. She signed up for a new program offered by the prison leading to a license in cosmetology. She and six other women completed the program and passed the state licensing exam.
Ms. O'Brien also became a student aide and assists the cosmetology instructor with purchasing orders and inventory. She plans to present a record of her progress to a judge, who may reduce her sentence.
"This program is a chance for a trade I can rely on to support my family when I'm on the outside," Ms. O'Brien said. She added that her cosmetology teacher, Maryann Hough, has been a role model and a source of strength. "If it wasn't for Ms. Hough, I wouldn't be on the path I am today. She gave me back my self-esteem."
In 1996, 1,088 inmates in the state's 22 prison schools earned high school equivalency diplomas, which represents about a third of the equivalency diplomas awarded statewide.
Six hundred prisoners received certificates in one of 66 vocational programs, and 686 prisoners with special education needs received instruction, according to the state Department of Correction.
About 800 prisoners completed college courses, and 139 earned college credit through the state's community and technical colleges.
It's difficult to predict whether or not Ms. O'Brien's new training and confidence will keep her from returning to prison. There is a saying among women at York that they are not to talk about a woman who has been released, because as soon as her name is mentioned, she will be back.
Inmates speak seriously while in prison about going straight. Many take courses, get job training and drug treatment and attend support groups for prisoners with addictions. But without the support of family and friends in the community and help in finding housing and a job, the easiest road to take is the one that leads back to jail, said the Rev. Laurie Etter, the Protestant chaplain at York for 18 years.
"It's critically important to have the educational programs," Ms. Etter said. "But an extra step is missing. Greater effort should be put toward resettlement. Too many faces come back again. It's an alarming number. There are women I've known for 18 years who go in and out. As bad as it may be in jail, it's worse on the street. If a woman hasn't gotten in touch with her addiction, she can leave with all the best intentions, but it's much easier to turn back to what she knows, her addiction."
There is a shortage of agencies that work with men and women during their transition from prison to a free society, said Sister Nancy Audette, a member of the Sisters of Mercy and coordinator of the Resettlement Program in Hartford, which puts former prisoners in touch with agencies that assist them in finding housing, employment, education, food, clothing, substance abuse treatment and emotional support.
Prisoners are not required to enroll in a resettlement program, and some think they can make it on their own. But they often end up being taken by bus to a city and dropped off with little more than the clothes they are wearing.
Getting jobs after leaving prison is the toughest part for the women. Success depends on the contacts teachers at York make with people in the community.
Businesses are willing to hire former prisoners if they need their skills, so courses at York should teach as much specific know-how as possible, said the principal of the school, Evva Donn. "We try to bring people in from the community for demonstrations and do as much interview preparation and job skills training as we can."
In addition to cosmetology, women at York are offered nurse's aide training, computer and business courses and classes in culinary arts and restaurant skills.
The prison plans to start training for cleaning jobs in hotels, motels and offices, Ms. Donn said. Women prisoners have missed out over the years on many educational programs available to men, and York is still struggling to get a selection of college courses equal to that offered in the men's prisons, she added.
Once they leave prison, women seldom get emotional support from their families, Ms. Etter said. Relatives may love them, but they are either dysfunctional themselves or tired of being abused by the women. Many women get so sick on the street that they do something that is certain to lead to their arrest again. Then they can go to jail and regain their health for a while. If they stayed out, they would die.
Ms. Etter said she puts women prisoners in contact with churches from their home towns so they have a place to go and people who care about them after they leave prison. "Women who know enough to join a religious community do well," she added.
In the 1960's, Ms. Etter recalled, conditions in prison were better for women. There were fewer women inmates, and more government support was available. A woman could not be released until she had a place to live and plans for obtaining custody of her children and finding employment. Counselors working with inmates took a personal interest in reuniting families.
The emphasis today lies not on rehabilitation but on keeping a community safe and imposing longer sentences. And a large number of women are leaving prison without training.
Private agencies, like the Resettlement Program, are shouldering the responsibility for giving many former prisoners a new start. The program, sponsored by the Connecticut Prison Association, has grown each year since it was started in 1992. In 1995-96, the program assisted 900 men and women. That number is expected to increase to about 1,000 this year, Sister Nancy said.
The staff and volunteers carry an active caseload of between 250 and 300 clients, about a third of whom are in the community. They work with an inmate for about six months while he or she is still in prison and for about six months after release. They help inmates set goals, run support groups and match former prisoners with volunteers who serve as mentors.
The best way to keep a community safe is to encourage a former prisoner not to give up after he or she has a bad day on a new job and make sure they attend addiction recovery meetings, Sister Nancy said. Keeping them from returning to prison benefits the community economically, too, since it costs about $30,000 a year to house a woman prisoner.
"If I could have $1,000 a person for two months to give somebody the solid support system they need to get on their feet and stay out of prison -- and we know it does work -- we'd be saving $29,000 a year for each woman," Sister Nancy said. "We know that in a year's time, only about 10 percent of the people we've worked with go back to prison."
Selena Kilpatrick was jailed many times for check and credit card fraud. Last released in 1989, she runs a home in Groton for women recently out of prison who have H.I.V. The home is supported by the Southeastern Connecticut AIDS Project Inc. and private donations.
Ms. Kilpatrickfound teachers in jail who refused togive up on her, she said. They taught her to think problems through, and she discovered that she knew more than she thought she did. Ms. Kilpatrick uses the electronics and welding skills she learned in prison to restore old lamps. The money she makes from the sale of the lamps goes toward running the home in Groton. Ms. Kilpatrick also works as a home health aide, a private nurse's aide and a phlebotomist (someone who draws blood for tests and other procedures).
"When you first come out of prison, your whole life is spent running here and there getting new identification, a driver's license, a Social Security card and a birth certificate. That can become discouraging," she said.
But the new friends she met at the church she attended hugged her and cheered her on. "They said, 'Get up. It's okay. It'll heal. Let's go,' " Ms. Kilpatrick recalled. "They didn't know who I was. But they didn't care. They opened their homes and arms to me."
Ms. Kilpatrick's story is classic, Ms. Etter said. "The church nagged her until she changed her life. She didn't have a chance. That's what it takes."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Matching skills to the job market is an objective of training at the women's prison at Niantic. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Cosmetology class at the York Correctional Institution in Niantic offers inmates way to learn a trade. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: YORK CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION (NIANTIC, CONN)

ORGANIZATION: YORK CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION (NIANTIC, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; VOCATIONAL TRAINING; WOMEN PRISONS (91%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SENTENCING (88%); MARRIAGE (88%); COSMETOLOGY & BARBER SCHOOLS (84%); FAMILY (78%); ARRESTS (68%); CHILDREN (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JULIE; O'BRIEN, LAURA

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



129 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 21; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: School Wins Pupil-Improvement Award

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG 

DATELINE: PEEKSKILL

 BODY:
IT is not only students who earn gold stars for their schoolwork. The Uriah Hill Elementary School here, which Gov. George E. Pataki attended, recently received recognition as a New York State Title I Distinguished Progress school for its success in improving students' performance on standardized reading and mathematics tests.
The state Education Department gave the school the award because its third graders' performance on reading comprehension and mathematics tests has been steadily improving in the last few years. 
 Uriah Hill is one of five Title I schools in the state to receive that designation. A Title I school refers to a school where at least 50 percent of the students qualify for free or reduced-fee lunch programs.
At Uriah Hill, where there are about 270 students in first through fifth grades, 67 percent of the children receive public assistance.
"We reflect Peekskill as a community," said the principal, James Taylor, who spent nine years as principal of the Oakside Elementary School in the district before joining Uriah Hill last September. "We have working-class parents, executive parents and unemployed parents. We're really pleased with this recognition, and we want to maintain the academic success we've had. There were parents who sent thank you notes to us after the award was announced."
Mr. Taylor's pride in his students was obvious as he escorted a visitor through the neat and quiet brick building, its walls decorated with a rain forest mural and other art projects.
Children ran up to hug him and share news about their latest achievements.
In a third-grade classroom, students eagerly shared what they had learned about the famous people they had studied for a biography project, while children in a first-grade classroom sat attentively as a volunteer read them a story.
Some second graders, inspired by a lesson on different versions of the familiar Red Riding Hood fairy tale, were absorbed in writing in their daily journals, while others grappled with math problems or worked on computers.
Members of the State Education Department visited the school in April to evaluate the programs.
Among programs that have improved the students' reading scores are an extended-day program where children work on their reading before school begins, an after-school program to offer children help with homework and provide other activities, the aid of a reading specialist as part of a teaching team and a take-home book program to encourage students to read at home. The school is about to offer a summer program to encourage reading during vacation.
"One of the things we do every day is writing, where the children write their own stories," Janet Robinson, a reading specialist, said.
Mr. Taylor said, "We have a very academic-and kid-oriented staff." He acknowledged the work of Sylvia Fernandez Pade, the former principal who is now at the district's middle school, for helping Uriah Hill achieve statewide recognition. "School should be the best time of the kids' day," he said. "We treat these students as if they were our own children. School has got to be fun and nurturing. That's my philosophy." MERRI ROSENBERG

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; PEEKSKILL (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; READING AND WRITING SKILLS; MATHEMATICS; TESTS AND TESTING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); HOMEWORK (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); ROSENBERG, MERRI JANET L ROBINSON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



130 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 66; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: A Special Issue: How The World Sees Us -- Power;
Shortsighted

BYLINE: By Grigory Yavlinsky 

DATELINE: RUSSIA

 BODY:
After the failed Communist coup in August 1991, America decided that true democracy had finally come to Russia. But that was far from true, because the old Soviet nomenklatura, including Boris Yeltsin, was still in place.
 The brief period of liberal Government, under Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar, ended in May 1992. When he was replaced some months later by Viktor Chernomyrdin, Russia regressed to a replica of the old Soviet system, with different titles. The bureaucracy, the absence of civil society, the existence of the old Soviet monopolies all created obstacles for people who wanted to live differently or start their own businesses. 
 To the United States, however, it was a new Russia, and its policy toward Russia changed drastically. In the Soviet period, Washington followed a two-pronged approach. While maintaining relations with the Soviet leaders, it communicated with the people directly -- through radio broadcasts and the United States Embassy in Moscow. In the late 1980's, Ambassador Jack Matlock turned the embassy into something like a club, where we could meet, discuss ideas and issues and learn about America.
 That is why Americans had an unlimited credit of trust in Russia in the early 90's; Americans had not confused the Government with the people. But then, suddenly, America seemed to recognize only the Government.
 This simplistic approach to Russia is typical of some American attitudes: there are good guys and bad guys. The good guys had won. Let's move on.
 In the Soviet period, American mass media blasted poor living conditions in Russia. Wages not being paid! Corrupt politicians! It's the Evil Empire! Now nothing seems to arouse American outrage on behalf of the Russian people. Wages not being paid? Corrupt politicians? It's a democracy -- no problem.
 But you can't have a democracy by fiat. More than ever, Russians need to hear about life in a democracy. Yes, in 1991 and 1992 we needed money, and we will be forever grateful to the American taxpayers for their timely help. Today Russia needs intellectual, moral and political support, and that requires a deep understanding of what is going on.
 Russians feel abandoned by America. We cannot understand why, if we have followed all your advice, we still face a profound economic decline. American economic advisers assumed that whatever was good for America had to be good for Russia. Inflation and the budget deficit were serious problems for the United States. Somehow, that became the focus of American advice to us: stabilize inflation, balance your budget and all will be well. But the two countries are completely different.
 The Soviet Union's economy was created by central planning. To create an effective market economy, we have to resolve the problems that America faced and we also have to change the monopolistic structures, implement private-property rights and have real privatization.
 Here are the questions I would like to ask an American economic expert. How did you deal with the robber barons and cartels during the Progressive Era? How did Theodore Roosevelt implement an effective tax system? How did you develop competition? This is what Russia really needs to know.
 Instead, we were told to stabilize inflation. And then, of course, "re-elect Yeltsin." So what happened? Russia re-elected Yeltsin and the West expanded NATO. What message does that send? Few Russians think that NATO is being expanded because you want to attack us. But it is a sign that you do not believe that Russia will become a democracy in the near future. You are expanding NATO because 100,000 people were killed in Chechnya, because we have an unpredictable leadership, because we have corruption, because there are enormous failures in economic reform.
 You should say so openly. I know that an enormous investment of time and money has been spent by the government, by the private sector, by foundations and universities in promoting the myth that Russia has achieved democracy. It would take great courage to admit that the taxpayers' money was wasted. But it is always better to be honest.
 Russians used to rely on America for the truth, for validation of their own perceptions of reality in Russia. When President Clinton came to Russia, the Russian people expected to hear something like this: "We Americans understand the difficulties you are facing. America has been through the Depression, has dealt with corruption and crime. Please do not think that corruption and crime are normal attributes of democracy." Instead all they saw was unstinting praise for the Government, which the people no longer trust.
 Reform is possible and reform is necessary. Do not give up on Russia. Tell the truth to us and to yourselves. It is the false political picture of what is going on in Russia that is creating the climate for business failure. American businesspeople are coming here with the notion that they can do business, as if Russia were California, Michigan or Texas. They find instead that they are expected to give bribes. They become frustrated and leave. Or they pay the bribes, which is bad for them and bad for Russia.
 Russian businesspeople are in the same fix. Today, to be successful, a Russian must be a close friend or relative of a high-ranking official. In Boston, a businessperson may not even know the names of the local bureaucrats. That is my dream model for Russians -- that they simply not know who the governor is. Translated from the Russian by Antonina W. Bouis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); COUPS (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); PROPERTY LAW (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); 

PERSON: YAVLINSKY, GRIGORY; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BORIS YELTSIN (73%); VIKTOR CHERNOMYRDIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



131 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Freehold Spurs Revitalization of Its Downtown

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
BY early fall, the transformation of a vacant, once blighted downtown block in Freehold into a mixed-use center is expected to get under way. The project is the latest chapter in the downtown's revitalization and the borough's efforts to retain existing businesses and attract new ones.
As now planned 50,000 square feet of retail and office space is to rise on the site at Mechanic and South Streets. A clutch of rundown buildings once occupied the block, which had become a hangout for drug users and a threat to the continued rebirth of this Monmouth County seat's six-block downtown, which has 325 stores, restaurants and businesses. 
 The project is being developed by the Eagle Group of Trenton in partnership with the borough, which initiated the redevelopment. Freehold declared the property blighted in 1994 and sold $3 million in bonds to buy it. Over the next three years the borough razed the buildings and relocated the residents and merchants who lived and worked there.
It did so, Mayor Michael Wilson said, because the block had become a "cancer that we had to stop from spreading."
The borough took a risk in the short term by acquiring the land, but in the long term it will be repaid from the site's redevelopment, Mayor Wilson said. The project, which most merchants supported, will also be a catalyst for more development in or near the downtown, he added.
Under the redevelopment agreement Freehold is contributing the land and Eagle is building the project. In turn, the borough will receive for 15 years, based on an agreed upon formula, a percentage of the rental stream from the project. It is expected to be completed by March.
Towns across New Jersey, in varying degrees, are stepping up efforts in the continuing campaigns to revive their downtowns, many of which have turned the corner in their battle against shopping malls. And with the state's economy and real estate market improving there seems to be renewed interest from lenders, investors and retailers in older suburban centers, said Donald R. Smartt, president of Downtown Managers, a consulting firm in Verona.
There are 125 downtown revitalization projects under way in the state he said, adding that 35 municipalities, including Freehold, also have created Special Improvement Districts, known as SIDs.
A 1984 state law lets communities set up districts in which property owners tax themselves to pay for improvements as well as services, including marketing, to spur business. But, Mr. Smartt said, "there are no magic bullets to revive downtowns." The key, he added, is to have the involvement of the public and private sectors and a master plan for the downtown that builds upon itself, one success at a time.
FOR Freehold, where a SID has been in place for five years, that meant taking an equity stake in the Mechanic Street project. Other communities are taking different approaches.
Two years ago Morristown, the Morris County seat, set up a mile-and-a-half-wide SID centered on Route 124 and running for two miles from Washington to Madison Street. Since then 60 to 70 new businesses have moved into the district for a total of 1,340, said Michael Fabrizio, executive director of the Morristown Partnership, which manages the SID.
Now, the partnership's main goal is finding tenants for an empty 130,000-square-foot former Macy's and four neighboring vacant stores, all facing the town's historic green, which is at the core of the SID.
A deal to redevelop the former Macy's building for up to four retailers is to close this summer, said Mr. Fabrizio. At the same time, work is to start on a 130-unit rental apartment project not far from the green.
The project supports the town's plan for residential development within its business district. It will rise on part of a downtown parking lot that the developer, the Applied Companies of Hoboken, is expected to lease from the Morristown Parking Authority for 98 years.
In Bound Brook, in Somerset County, the borough sold 13.5 acres of a 48-acre site it owns on Union Avenue (Route 28), a main retail corridor. The borough's reviving downtown, the heart of which has 200 businesses, is spread over six blocks along Main Street and its side streets.
The buyer of the 13.5 acres, at the southeast corner of Tea Street and Union Avenue, is the Advanced Group of Bedminster, which also has an option to buy the rest of the site. It plans to break ground in five weeks for 104,500-square-foot community shopping center, anchored by a 70,000-square-foot ShopRite, the first supermarket in years in the borough. The project is expected to cost more than $8 million.
"It will put land back on the tax roll and draw shoppers to the downtown," Mayor Frank J. Gilly said of the project. Shoppers must drive through the downtown, consisting mostly of arts and specialty shops, to get to the new center, added Mary M. Moody, manager of Historic Bound Brook Main Street Special Improvement District. This, she said, will help the businesses there.
Thomas S. Michnewicz, project manager for the Advanced Group, said his company had moved ahead with the project because of its location and the area's demographics showing that 48,000 households with an average income of $73,611 live within five miles of the site. He said having the borough support also shaved six months off the approval process.
What sets apart the $3.5 million Mechanic Street redevelopment in Freehold is that the borough took the lead, a step it has taken before. In the late 80's the borough spent $4.5 million on a renovation project that included the redevelopment of a promenade at the core of the SID.
In the intervening years it has done additional improvements, mostly to the area's parking lots, and last July it passed an ordinance allowing the Victorian houses in and around the downtown to be converted to bed-and-breakfast lodgings.
Redeveloping Mechanic Street was a necessary gamble "to keep everything healthy," Mayor Wilson said.
For Freehold "to issue bonds in advance of a redevelopment plan, which put it completely at risk, is unusual," said Christiana Foglio, president of Community Investment Strategies, a New Brunswick-based real estate consulting and developing firm that the borough hired to put together the project and market it to private developers.
"We see opportunities in these areas for projects that provide basic services, where the communities are willing to become partners," said Sidney L. Hofing, Eagle's president. As for the Mechanic Street redevelopment, designed as a complex of three Victorian-style buildings, he said the agreement with the borough "is equitable" and the area's demographics support the project. He said 23,731 families with an average income of $73,000 live within two miles of the site.
MONMOUTH COUNTY has leased 21,000 square feet of offices, providing the Mechanic Street project with an anchor tenant. Mr. Hofing would not disclose rents, but he said they would be slightly more than those for existing office and retail space, which is $10 to $12 a square foot, depending on size and location.
Other projects also are taking shape in Freehold. On Main Street, between Court and Sheriff Streets, an investor is converting an 8,000-square-foot building next to a vacant lot created by the razing of two county buildings within the last year. The building, which is expected to be converted by year's end, will house office and retail space and a community theater. Some of the land where the county buildings once stood will be used for parking, said Jane L. Carr, business advocate for the Freehold Center Partnership, which manages the SID.
The borough owns and is marketing for redevelopment a vacant 300,000-square-foot textile mill two blocks away that Bruce Springsteen, a native of Freehold, sang about in his ballad, "My Hometown." The Mayor said it goes like this:
They are closing down the textile mill
Across the railroad tracks.
Foreman says these jobs are going, boys,
And they ain't coming back.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of mixed-used center that will be built on Mechanic Street block by Freehold and private developer. (Lou Calvanelli)
 
Map showing the location of Freehold, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EAGLE GROUP MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EAGLE GROUP MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FREEHOLD (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); COUNTIES (70%); BONDS (68%); SUBURBS (67%); 

PERSON: HOLCOMBE 'MICHAEL' WILSON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



132 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 58; Column 4; Society Desk 

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Victoria Bok, DeWitt Clinton Jones 4th

 BODY:
Victoria Bok and DeWitt Clinton Jones 4th, who are specialists in housing and community development in Boston, were married yesterday by Donna L. Wadoski, a notary public, at the Camden Yacht Club in Camden, Me.
Ms. Bok, who is 35 and is keeping her name, is a project associate for the Boston Housing Authority, where she is the Federal community renaissance fellow. She graduated summa cum laude from Yale University and received a master's degree in public policy from Harvard University. 
 The bride is a daughter of Sissela and Derek Bok of Cambridge, Mass. The bride's father is a president emeritus of Harvard and a 300th Anniversary University Professor who teaches in Harvard's schools of education and government. The bride's mother is a distinguished fellow at the Harvard University Center for Population and Development Studies.
The bride is a granddaughter of the late Alva Myrdal, who won a Nobel Peace Prize in 1982, and the late Gunnar Myrdal, who won a Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science in 1974.
Mr. Jones, 40, is the executive director of the Boston Community Loan Fund, which provides loans and investments to nonprofit organizations and businesses that build affordable housing. He is also the president of the board of the Penikese Island (Mass.) School, an institution for troubled boys. He graduated and received a master's degree in city and regional planning from Harvard. The bridegroom was a widower.
He is a son of Megan and DeWitt C. Jones 3d of Falmouth, Mass. The bridegroom's mother is an associate at the Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government and is a former director of the Massachusetts Centers of Excellence Corporation, an agency that supported technology development in Boston. His father, who is retired, was an administrator and a mathematics teacher at Falmouth High School.
The bridegroom is a descendant of De Witt Clinton, who was a Governor of New York and a Mayor of New York City.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victoria Bok, DeWitt Clinton Jones 4th. (John Swan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: BOK, DEREK; BOK, VICTORIA; JONES, DEWITT CLINTON 4TH; MYRDAL, GUNNAR; MYRDAL, ALVA JOHN F KENNEDY (53%); JOHN F KENNEDY (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



133 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Boating Slips;
Marinas in Southern California Battle Landlords

BYLINE: By KEVIN BRASS 

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO

 BODY:
AS the demand for boating slips declines, Southern California marina operators are locked in a rent struggle with their landlords, the local government agencies owning tidelands and bayfronts.
H. P. Purdon, owner of the Shelter Cove Marina on San Diego Bay, is facing a possible rent increase, even though, he says, his slips are typically at least 15 percent empty. The San Diego Unified Port District, which controls San Diego Bay, is now having all of its marina properties appraised. 
 "They're always pushing for rent," Mr. Purdon said. "One of their mantras is to increase their revenue."
The dispute underscores the complexities of the relationship between the marina owners and the local governments from which they lease the land, and the permission to float docks and boat slips, on which their businesses depend. Government agencies like the San Diego Port District typically lease out tidelands and bayfront property to private companies, which build and operate the marinas.
As landlords, the government agencies say they are charged with maximizing the return on the property for taxpayers. "We're not out to raise rents, we're out to determine what the fair market rent should be," said Thomas Morgan, senior director of real estate operations for the San Diego Unified Port District.
Leases for marina sites, typically for 40 years, call for marina operators to pay between 15 to 25 percent of their annual gross revenue to the controlling government agency. Most leases allow for periodic reviews of lease rates.
In Marina del Rey, a popular boating center a few miles south of downtown Los Angeles, the Los Angeles County Department of Beaches and Harbors is "actively renegotiating" marina leases, according to Dennis Heitmann, chief property manager for the agency.
In some cases, the county is moving to return the rents to 25 percent of the marinas' annual gross. . Many rents were lowered a few years ago, in response to cries for help from marina owners. Current levels range from 16 to 22.5 percent.
"None of our appraisals have called for a lower rent amount," Mr. Heitmann said.
Other agencies are taking similar steps, even though marina owners complain that their industry is in the midst of a severe depression. Vacancy rates are "a fairly compelling argument that the economy is not great and the marinas can't afford" the rent increases, said Richard Cloward, executive director of the San Diego Port Tenants Association.
As recently as 1990, there were long waiting lists for boat slips in most Southern California marinas. But the market went through a complete turnaround, industry analysts say. A change in recreational habits, a downturn in the economy and imposition of a 10 percent Federal tax in 1990 on boats costing $100,000 or more are among the factors blamed for a dramatic downturn in boat sales. The tax was repealed in 1993.
As golf and other activities grew more popular, total boating industry revenues slid from $17.9 billion in 1988 to about $10.3 billion in 1992, according to the National Marine Manufacturers Association. During the same period, the number of "inboard cruisers" -- the large yachts that sell for more than $200,000 and are the boats most coveted by marina operators -- fell 75 percent.
Although the overall boating industry is rebounding, Southern California has been slow to respond. Cuts in the military and aerospace industry changed the demographics of the region. San Diego County alone lost 30,000 military industry jobs from 1991 to 1996.
Along with the jobs, there was a migration of boats out of Southern California. At one point, in 1992, a study by marina operator Almar Ltd. concluded that 42 percent of the used boats sold in California were shipped out of the state. Of the 35,000 slips in Southern California, about 6,000 are currently vacant. Many of the region's marinas report vacancy rates close to 30 percent.
On San Diego Bay, the boat slip vacancy rate is about 25 percent, according to marina owners. "I think a lot of [marina owners] would sell, if they could," said Mr. Purdon.
IN 1989, Mr. Purdon's company bought the 160-slip Shelter Cove Marina, built in 1953, for $3.5 million. The 12,000-square-foot complex, which includes 160 slips, offices, recreation and bathrooms, was renovated in 1993 at a cost of $3 million.
In 1991, when waiting lists were common, Mr. Purdon's company purchased another marina, a 42-slip operation on the peninsula of Coronado for $400,000. The Coronado facility is currently 60 percent vacant, Mr. Purdon said.
"People are just not enamored with boating right now -- it's a lifestyle thing," said Mr. Purdon, who is executive vice president of the Marina Recreation Association, a Sacramento-based trade organization. Construction of new marinas has almost completely ceased in Southern California, Mr. Purdon said. Earlier this year, the San Diego Unified Port District sent out a request for proposals to develop a new marina in National City, on the southern portion of the bay.
Calls to develop marina land are rare, and usually highly coveted. In addition to a 40-year lease on the bayfront land, the Port was offering to dredge the bay. But, with the market in the doldrums, not a single qualified party submitted a proposal, according to Port records.
The National City proposal "just didn't pencil out," said Kevin Mansfield, director of acquisitions and planning for Westrec Marina Management, one of the largest marina operators in the country. Westrec operates more than 40 marinas around the country, but none in California.
Although it actively pursues opportunities in Southern California, in general, "pricing values are greater in other parts of the country," Mr. Mansfield said.
The Port's attempts to build the National City marina angered existing marina owners in San Diego, who say the project would only worsen existing vacancy problems. Port officials hope the marina project will spur redevelopment in the National City area.
Marina owners often find themselves in competition with their landlord government agencies. In San Diego Bay, the Port District operates more than 400 moorings -- anchorages not serviced by docks. For the right to anchor their boats and row to shore, boat owners pay $2 a day, which the marina owners believe undercuts their business.
Just south of Los Angeles, the City of Long Beach operates more than 3,700 slips in two locations. Faced with vacancy rates that hover around 30 percent in its downtown marina, the city is planning to add bathrooms, laundries, security and other amenities to make it more attractive to more overnight boaters.
"It is very competitive between the private and public marinas," said Douglas Parsons, superintendent of operations for the marine bureau of the city's Department of Parks, Recreation and Marinas.
With vacancy rates high, the rents marina owners charge boat owners have been declining, according to Randy Short, chief operating officer for Almar Ltd., which has been in the marina business for 25 years. The marinas charge boat owners from $5 to $18 per foot a month, based on the slip or boat size, whichever is greater. "There has been an active price war in the marina industry since 1992," Mr. Short said
To better compete, Almar, which owns four marina properties in California, plus another in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, spent $3 million in 1989 to redevelop the docks and other facilities of its San Diego marina property and an additional $4.5 million to refurbish its marina in Ventura, Calif., north of Los Angeles.
"It will be a long, long time before I recover that investment," Mr. Short said.
Some analysts believe the Southern California boating market is set to improve. A 1995 report prepared for the California Department of Boating and Waterways predicted that from 1995 to 2010 the number of boats using marinas and moorings will increase by 76 percent. But marina owners point to figures from the National Marine Manufactures Association showing a decline of 5 percent in boat sales last year, compared with the year before.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The owner of Shelter Cove Marina in San Diego, who fears an increase in rent, says that his boat slips are typically at least 15 percent empty. (Photographs by Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOATS AND BOATING; MARINAS; RENTING AND LEASING MARINAS (94%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (76%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: BRASS, KEVIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



134 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOWER MANHATTAN -- UPDATE;
Latest Plan Joined by Counterplan in Landmarks Fight at 250 Water St.

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
It's the project that just won't die: For 14 years, Milstein Properties has tried to build on the parking lot it owns at 250 Water Street in the South Street Seaport Historic District. At least a half-dozen designs -- some as tall as 43 stories -- have met with vocal neighborhood opposition. Only one, for a 10-story office building, was approved by the Landmarks Preservation Commission in 1991, and in that case the economy intervened to prevent construction, said an executive vice president of Milstein Properties, James M. Yasser.
But all that may be about to change. 
 For while the latest Milstein proposal, for two apartment towers -- one 14 stories, the other 30, has languished before the commission for a year, the delay may work in its favor, as members who have opposed any high-rise development in the district over many years leave the commission and are replaced by appointees of Mayor Giuliani, who is known to favor development in the area.
Still, while local residents who oppose the plan and local politicians sympathetic to their cause say they suspect that the Milsteins are deliberately dawdling, the opponents have not been idle. They are trying to rally support for a competing low-rise design, for a row of five- and seven-story town houses, put forth by the Seaport Community Coalition, a neighborhood group. Community Board 1 recently endorsed that proposal.
State Senator Martin Connor, Councilwoman Kathryn E. Freed and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, the local Assemblyman, recently demanded that the commission review the alternative design and vote on the Milstein proposal by the end of June. But neither a review nor a vote has been scheduled, said the panel's chief of staff, Terri Rosen Deutsch. Mr. Yasser said Milstein executives also have not studied the town house alternative, but he added that they "definitely plan to look at" it. BERNARD STAMLER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & LAND DEVELOPMENT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MILSTEIN PROPERTIES MILSTEIN PROPERTIES CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: MILSTEIN PROPERTIES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH STREET SEAPORT HISTORIC DISTRICT (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL HISTORIC SITES (90%); CITIES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); MAYORS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POLITICS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); APPROVALS (71%); 

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD RUDY GIULIANI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



135 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS;
Who's Watching Out For the Shareholders?

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
AS a shareholder in a mutual fund, you expect the fund's directors to look out for your interests, first and foremost. But if the fund company pays a director $100,000, will he still do so? What if he gets a pay package worth $400,000?
A Federal judge recently addressed this issue and concluded that directors who rake in such amounts by sitting on multiple boards for one fund company might no longer be disinterested, independent directors. Essentially, directors who make too much become "house directors" of the firm, the judge said in refusing to dismiss a lawsuit filed by a disgruntled shareholder.
Should his opinion stand, it "would require extraordinary structural changes" in the fund industry, according to the Investment Company Institute, a fund trade group. 
 Just whether the fox is watching the henhouse is a matter of increasing concern. The top industry watchdog, Arthur Levitt Jr., chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, says he is paying close attention to the role of independent directors and whether they adequately look out for shareholders, particularly in regard to fees.
Don Phillips, president of Morningstar Inc., the fund tracking company, said the objectivity of directors has been called into question in recent years. Independent directors are the guardians of the industry, he said, "but there has been more evidence that certain independent directors are acting more in the interest of companies than of shareholders."
Under Federal law, at least 40 percent of a mutual fund's board must be directors who are not employees of the management company or otherwise linked to it. But it is common for directors to serve on more than one board at a fund company and to receive compensation from each fund. The amount of money can really add up, as it did for some directors in the latest lawsuit.
Scudder, Stevens & Clark, the company involved in the litigation, has asked the court for permission to file an immediate appeal or to reconsider a dismissal. The Investment Company Institute has filed a friend of the court brief supporting Scudder.
The case was brought by Robert Strougo, a shareholder of the Brazil fund, a closed-end fund managed by Scudder, after it announced a rights offering. He contends that the fund's directors approved an offering that hurt existing shareholders but led to higher management fees for Scudder. In the suit, which seeks damages from Scudder and the fund's directors, he also contends that the fund's four independent directors served on so many Scudder boards and were so highly compensated that they had become "house" directors.
Judge Robert W. Sweet of Federal District Court in Manhattan let the lawsuit stand in the case of three directors: one who received about $400,000 in deferred and immediate compensation from Scudder in one year, one who received $132,023 and another who made $54,997. It was dismissed in the case of another who made just $13,868 and served on only one Scudder board.
The judge's ruling on May 6 was in response to Scudder's request to dismiss all claims. No trial date has been set on the underlying matter pending decisions on other motions, including the latest request by Scudder, which declined to comment.
The judge wrote that "where, as here, a director's actions are alleged to establish that he or she may be acting in the interests of the adviser, the receipt of substantial remuneration from a fund complex does call into question the director's independence."
At what point pay might be considered excessive is a matter of dispute. Among fund groups with more than $25 billion under management, the median total compensation for a director is $76,250, according to a 1997 trustee compensation survey by Management Practice, a consulting firm specializing in mutual fund governance. Compensation drops to $55,000 for fund groups managing $10 billion to $25 billion and to $28,750 for groups with $5 billion to $10 billion. The figures are based on data from 224 fund groups with 1,130 directors. In all, the industry has about 2,000 directors.
It is worth noting that the range of compensation within these bands is very wide, said Meyrick Payne, senior partner in Management Practice. Perhaps more important, the 120 directors in the 14 biggest fund complexes are by far the most powerful and, presumably, the highest paid.
For example, Fidelity Investments, the nation's largest fund company, retains nine independent trustees who sit on the boards of all its funds. But the practice is common at the biggest fund groups. A survey by the Investment Company Institute found that nearly three-quarters of 190 fund groups reported using the same directors on all their funds' boards in 1994.
"That's a story in itself," Mr. Meyrick said. "Nowhere else among American financial companies is power so concentrated" as at the big fund companies.
In its brief supporting Scudder, the fund trade group said that having independent directors serve on the board of only one fund would be "costly and highly inefficient." And when asked about the practice, Fidelity stated that it believes the judge's opinion is incorrect and undermines the trustee structure used by the majority of the industry.
The Scudder case is not the first time these issues have been raised. When fund companies began adding retirement plans for directors in the early 1990's, industry critics objected, saying that such lucrative payments would affect directors' judgment.
"Directors are supposed to be watchdogs, and if that means voting against management and getting fired, so be it," said Geoff Bobroff, an industry consultant.
Some industry trackers are less concerned about the amount earned by a fund director than how it is awarded. John Rekenthaler, publisher of Morningstar Inc., points out that directors' fees are a small part of investors' expenses in midsize or large funds. What is needed is an economic incentive for directors to work on shareholders' behalf, Mr. Rekenthaler said. "I don't care if directors are well paid, if the fund is delivering shareholder value by performing well at a reasonable cost."
 
Graph: "At Whose Expense?"

 	 		THE MEDIAN TOTAL PAY		 	AT FUND COMPANIES MANAGING ASSETS OF	FOR A DIRECTOR IS	More than $25 billion	$76,250	$10 billion - $25 billion	$55,000	$5 billion - $10 billion	$28,750	$1 billion - $5 billion	$18,000	Less than $1 billion	$6,000	
 
(Source: Mangement Practice)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SCUDDER, STEVENS & CLARK INC MORNINGSTAR INC (68%); DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (53%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (56%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCUDDER, STEVENS & CLARK INC SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (56%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS; WAGES AND SALARIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION SHAREHOLDERS (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); DAMAGES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); JUDGES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; SWEET, ROBERT W (JUDGE)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



136 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: FUNDS WATCH;
Sold on the Simple I.R.A.

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
When it comes to retirement plans, some decisions are simple, says T. Rowe Price, the fund company in Baltimore.
Even though Price decided against selling Simple 401(k) retirement plans for businesses, it has proceeded with Simple individual retirement accounts, and the I.R.A. version is selling well, the company said. 
 Both types of accounts -- Simple stands for Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees -- were permitted under legislation signed last year. The law was intended to encourage small businesses to add pension plans by easing the administrative burden on small employers.
 But after studying both types of plans, Price concluded that a typical company's costs would be higher under the Simple 401(k) plan than under a conventional 401(k) and rejected the concept.
The Simple I.R.A., though, costs less and is easier to administer than a Simple 401(k), Price calculated. Businesses with no more than 100 workers generally can set up either a Simple I.R.A. or a Simple 401(k).
Business owners seem to agree with Price. Several hundred companies have begun Simple retirement plans with Price this year. And more than three-quarters of them did not have a retirement plan previously, Price found.
Furthermore, there is significant awareness of the Simple plans, according to a survey commissioned by Price and conducted in early March by Hollander Cohen & McBride, a market research firm in Towson, Md. The poll, of 179 business owners with 5 to 35 employees, found that 51 percent of the companies with retirement plans were aware of the Simple format, as were one-third of businesses without plans. In all, 22 percent of the companies aware of the new plans said they were considering them.
"This survey suggests that the Simple plans have been well-received by business owners, and over time, the plans may help extend tax-deferred retirement investing to small-business employees," said Jeanette M. LeBlanc, manager of small-business retirement plans at Price.
 
The Money Funds Vs. the Banks
Money market mutual funds have offered a higher-yielding alternative to bank savings accounts for more than 20 years. Now the funds seem to be taking aim at another bank profit center: checking accounts.
Seventy-seven percent of the 670 retail taxable money funds already offer check-writing privileges, as do 81 percent of tax-exempt money funds, according to a survey by the IBC Money Fund Report, a newsletter in Ashland, Mass. But special fees have made many of the funds too expensive to use as substitute checking accounts, cautioned Peter Crane, managing editor of the newsletter.
Only 82 money funds offer unlimited check writing with no minimum on check amounts, the survey found, and many of these come from smaller fund companies. Among the yield leaders, the Strategist Money Market fund offers check writing, for example, but it charges $2 for each check written for less than $100.
"Most of the larger, more well-known money funds have check minimums of $250 to $500, so investors shouldn't cancel their checking accounts just yet," Mr. Crane said. "But we expect some of the larger money-fund players to test the waters in the unlimited checking area in coming months."
Rising bank fees could also help make the money funds more competitive, Mr. Crane said.
 
Index Funds, on Sale
As a flood of money continues into index funds, competition is heating up, which translates into lower costs for investors.
Charles Schwab & Company, which reduced the average annual expenses on its four index funds in February, is shaving even more off now by creating a new series, called Select Shares.
The new shares require a minimum investment of $50,000, but carry very low expenses. The shares in the Schwab S.& P. 500 Select fund charge only 0.19 percent of assets a year -- the same cap recently chosen by the Fidelity Spartan Market Index, which previously had a cap of 0.45 percent. The Fidelity fund has a minimum initial investment of $10,000.
In their expense rates, Schwab and Fidelity have undercut the Vanguard Index 500 fund, which charges 0.20 percent of assets but allows a minimum investment of just $3,000 for most accounts.
For the other funds in Schwab's Select Shares series, expenses on the Schwab 1000 Index will be 0.35 percent of assets; Small Cap Index, 0.38 percent, and the International Index fund, 0.47 percent.
To discourage short-term trading, Schwab assesses an early withdrawal fee of 0.50 percent on shares in the Schwab 1000 and Small Cap Index funds sold within six months of purchase, and 0.75 percent for Schwab International Index.
 
Only the Fee-Only
Investors who are leery of paying commissions have a new tool for finding fee-only financial planners. The National Association of Personal Financial Advisors, in Buffalo Grove, Ill., has created a certification mark, really a fee-only logo, to signify that advisers are compensated solely by their clients. To join, planners pay a $100 application fee and an annual $100 licensing fee. Advisers can apply by calling (800) 366-2732 or by visiting the group's World Wide Web site at www.napfa.org. The group says it has more than 600 members.
 
New Funds
Vista Small Cap Opportunities aims for long-term capital growth by investing primarily in equities of companies with market capitalizations of up to $1 billion. Its co-managers will be Jill Greenwald, co-manager of Vista Small Cap Equity, and Ron Zibelli. The sales charge is 4.75 percent.
 
New Managers
Timothy Ghriskey, the head of value equities at Dreyfus and manager of eight Dreyfus funds, has picked up the Dreyfus Fund from Ernest G. Wiggins Jr., who has left the company. Mr. Wiggins's other position, as director of equity research, has been filled by Richard B. Hoey, chief economist at Dreyfus and the manager of three Dreyfus funds.
Peter Langerman, senior vice president and director of Franklin Mutual Advisers, adds the title of chief operating officer.
Putnam Investments has consolidated its domestic and international equity groups under Tim Ferguson, former overseer of international equities. He picks up the domestic group from Peter Carman, who resigned recently to head the global asset-management business at Citicorp.
 
In Brief
Nicholas-Applegate Capital Management agreed to acquire Credit Lyonnais International Asset Management-Asia, subject to regulatory approval.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Kingpins" shows the biggest mutual funds that track the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, ranked by their assets. Also shown are their annual expenses as a percentage of assets. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (88%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: T ROWE PRICE INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); T ROWE PRICE STABLE ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (88%); MARYLAND, USA (88%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS; PERSONAL FINANCES; SMALL BUSINESS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; LAW AND LEGISLATION PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (96%); US 401K PLANS (94%); PERSONAL FINANCE (92%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); TAX LAW (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (65%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



137 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BROOKLYN HEIGHTS;
A Once-Powerful Association Seeks to Slay New Dragons

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE 

 BODY:
In one of its landmark battles, the Brooklyn Heights Association helped to slay the mightiest of all New York dragons: Robert Moses.
In 1950, under intense pressure from the politically powerful association, the city's public works czar backed away from a plan to plow through the heart of the neighborhood with an elevated highway. Instead, Brooklyn Heights got a two-tiered, submerged expressway, the Promenade above it and, most importantly, unobstructed views of the lower Manhattan skyline. 
 Forty-seven years later, downtown Brooklyn is undergoing its largest development boom since the 1950's. Whether it is a park or luxury housing, some of it is expected to be built on the Brooklyn Heights waterfront. The organization is girding for battle over what will take shape on the river, as well as other issues.
To lead the way, the 30-member board of the association elected Deirdre A. Carson as its new president on May 13. Ms Carson is an attorney who specializes in zoning and land use issues.
"Deirdre is very much the right person at the right time. Attorneys with land use and planning skills are worth their weight in gold," said Judy Stanton, the association's executive director. "We have to look at what is going to happen over the next decade. We have to make sure that the area stays consistent."
Ms. Carson cited as priorities during her two-year term, creating a Brooklyn Bridge park on five piers, mitigating the impact of the reconstruction of the Brooklyn Queens Expressway, which Heights residents fear will draw more traffic onto their streets, and creating a new conservancy for the Promenade.
Ms. Carson hopes to persuade the Governor to finance the association's 10-year effort to create a Brooklyn Bridge park through the state environmental bond issue.
"The economy is good. The bond money is there," Ms. Carson said. "It's the right time to do it."
In some ways, Ms. Carson represents change for what, at the age of 87, is believed to be the city's oldest neighborhood association. As a 46-year-old woman, she does not fit the stereotype of past presidents -- an older white male. (Ms. Carson is the group's third female president.)
Whether the Brooklyn Heights Association is up to its newest battles remains to be seen. Critics and supporters agree that the association's power has been diluted since the 1960's, which is when the Heights was designated as the city's first historic district. In 1984, for example, the group lost a major court battle in an effort to block the development of Pierrepont Plaza, a 19-story office tower on the edge of the community. But with a $400,000 war chest for potential battles now in place, it remains among the city's most powerful neighborhood associations.
The planning and development issues are not the only items on Ms. Carson's agenda. The association has been criticized as being a club intent on improving the quality of life only in its neighborhood. Ms. Carson said she believed that the criticism is unwarranted.
Leonard Gelstein, a Heights resident who served on the board in the 1970's, said the organization remained too focused on its own priorities. "What they don't pay attention to is the needs of all the population," he said. DAVID ROHDE

GRAPHIC: Chart: "SCORECARD: Battling Builders"
The Brooklyn Heights Association was founded in 1910 and is regarded as the oldest ongoing neighborhood association in the city.
 
WINS
1945 - 1950 - Helped block plan to build the Booklyn Queens Expressway through the neighborhood. The alternative highway route, below street level, led to the creation of the Brooklyn Heights Promenade.
 
1965 - Designated the city's first Historic District.
 
1988 - Stopped plan by the Jehovah's Witnesses to build a residence at the foot of Columbia Heights. The project was built instead on Sand Street.
 
LOSSES
1980 - Fought developer's plan to build a 51-unit, 15-story apartment building on the site of the Hotel Margaret on Columbia Heights. Battle ended in developers favor but building reduced to 11 stories.
 
1980 - 1981 - Failed to keep Burger King restaurant off Montague Street.
 
1984 - Lost court fight to block Pierrepont Plaza office building.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN HEIGHTS ASSN

ORGANIZATION: BROOKLYN HEIGHTS ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN HEIGHTS (NYC); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LAND USE POLICIES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC CITY LIFE (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BOND ISSUES (73%); BONDS (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (70%); LAWYERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: ROHDE, DAVID; CARSON, DEIRDRE A; MOSES, ROBERT (1888-1981) DAVID E A CARSON (92%); ROBERT MOSES (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



138 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: TRIBECA;
Greenwich St. Has Moved Into Fast Lane but Brakes Are On

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
Sixteen years ago, when she first visited Arthur Unterman's studio apartment at the Independence Plaza housing complex on Greenwich Street, Catherine Zehr thought she was at the end of the world. Sand blowing off the barren Battery Park City landfill stung the eyes and gave the neighborhood a Sahara-like feel. Empty lots outnumbered stores and restaurants. Urban renewal had left Greenwich Street 100 feet wide, roomy enough for at least six lanes of traffic, but the street was usually deserted.
After Ms. Zehr, a children's clothing designer, and Mr. Unterman, a lawyer, were married, they stayed at Independence Plaza. But the larger apartment where they live overlooks a very different TriBeCa from the one they first knew. 
 Old buildings are being converted to million-dollar lofts. Well-known restaurants dot the streetcorners, including some, like Nobu and TriBeCa Grill, in which Robert DeNiro, a local resident, is a partner. The TriBeCa Film Center, which Mr. DeNiro also owns, houses offices for film companies. And traffic, lots of it, hurtles down highway-wide Greenwich Street at highway speed.
To slow that traffic, a plan for the "greening" of Greenwich Street first took shape in 1987, when Shearson Lehman Brothers built an office tower between Hubert and North Moore Streets and provided $9.5 million to narrow Greenwich Street and plant trees. John Petrarca, the chairman of Community Board 1's landmarks committee and a member of Friends of Greenwich Street, the nonprofit group overseeing the project, said that at the time, Independence Plaza's owners would not agree to help maintain the "greener" Greenwich Street and that much of the money eventually went to a school now being built in Battery Park City.
The city's Economic Development Corporation recently approved a $2 million proposal that would reduce the number of traffic lanes to two from six. Work was to have started later this month, but Mr. Petrarca said that it has been postponed for at least a year because of engineering problems.
And there is opposition to the plan among some businesses. The TriBeCa Grill's manager, Tracy Nieporent, said he wanted no fewer than three traffic lanes, so as not to discourage his mostly uptown clients from visiting in taxis and limousines. Mr. Nieporent said the community board has not been responsive to his concerns, so he has contacted the Economic Development Corporation and other city agencies in the hope that a compromise can be reached. But Mr. Petrarca's group says the plan is final.
Ms. Zehr and other residents say crossing Greenwich Street has become a harrowing experience. A new narrower street, she said, "can't come soon enough." BERNARD STAMLER

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Traffic moves at highway speed on Greenwich Street. But a new plan, here showing the intersection with Harrison Street, would cut traffic to two lanes from six.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NYC) LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TRIBECA (NYC); GREENWICH STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TRIBECA GRILL (NYC) RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); RETAILERS (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); APPROVALS (65%); LANDFILLS (57%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); FASHION DESIGNERS (55%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (55%); 

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD ROBERT DE NIRO (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



139 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week In Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Why People Get Rich;
Good or Bad, Greed Is Often Beside the Point

BYLINE: By ANDREW HACKER; Andrew Hacker teaches political science at Queens College. His book, "Money: Who Has How Much and Why," is being published this month by Scribner.

 BODY:
GREED connotes coveting, demanding, keeping more than you should rightly have. Hence the negative images of Midas and his insatiable appetite for gold and of Scrooge gloating over the misfortunes of others. But does the charge of avarice apply to charmers like Tiger Woods and Julia Louis-Dreyfuss?
In fact, there's a public ambivalence about the upward flow of money. Americans know the rich are getting richer: The Internal Revenue Service counts four times as many households declaring incomes over $1 million compared with 15 years ago, computed in constant dollars. Yet today the character of Gordon Gekko, the corporate-raiding antihero of the 1987 movie "Wall Street," seems overdrawn. Even those unsettled by the shift in wealth seem hesitant about framing the discussion in moral terms. With the ascendancy of free markets generally accepted around the world, debates focus less on whether greed is good or bad than on specific checks on excess: on when or which superpayments may be deserved.
 
The Pay Minuet
 
 Case in point: "Seinfeld." Ms. Louis-Dreyfuss and Jerry Seinfeld's two other sitcom sidekicks -- Jason Alexander and Michael Richards -- each asked $22 million, or $1 million per episode, for the coming season, and settled for $13 million, or $600,000 per episode. That's $25,000 per sit-minute, more than the starting annual salary of a child-abuse investigator. Greed? Not necessarily. The three knew that NBC (an arm of General Electric) has a booming balance sheet, much of it owing to them. The money was there, so why shouldn't they have their share? Viewed this way, their millions look more like equity. Moreover, even stars cannot count on lengthy careers; today's outsized salaries are tomorrow's retirement checks. And of course a big part of the equation is that Americans like the Seinfeld crew.
The pay minuet involves consenting adults. Jim Carrey has been getting $20 million per movie, and this basketball season Michael Jordan got $300,000 per game. But are actors and athletes overreaching when they accept the highest bid of a studio or team? Thus far the public hasn't been blaming stars for rising ticket prices.
Similarly, Tiger Woods's first $60 million for endorsements came before he won the Masters, and he hardly had to crowbar it out of his benefactors. So here, too, the charge of excess doesn't easily fit. Since Mr. Woods has been seized upon as a national symbol, and looks set to live up to his potential (and has even begun doing so), his rewards are not begrudged.
Star systems also permeate more staid professions. The 1,059 partners in New York's top 10 law firms averaged $1.04 million in 1995. (For all lawyers, the national median is $72,144.) But those lawyers own the firms where they work, and Americans don't usually cavil if proprietors take what they like from the till. Nor can it be charged that they underpay their underlings: associates can get $100,000 while still in their 20's.
Still, the bottom line is that the firms' clients are willing to pay high fees for what they think is the best talent. Charging whatever you can get would become suspect if needed goods or services were kept in short supply. But that situation doesn't apply in the legal profession: the country has 880,000 lawyers, and clients are not bereft of choice.
 
Just Take It
 But what about executive pay? Since 1990, Philip Knight, Nike's chief executive officer, has seen his fortune quadruple, to $5.3 billion from $1.2 billion. The reason may be simply stated: people choose Nike shoes, and investors like the company's stock. So it seems incongruous to charge Mr. Knight with greed just because the money keeps rolling in. Still, part of his billions come from the shoes' being made in Asia at very minimal wages, and fortunes from underpaid labor seldom fare well in public esteem. Mr. Knight would undoubtedly reply that manufacturing overseas makes his products affordable here, which puts critics in the position of wanting to make people pay more for their Air Jordans.
Corporate executives are employees, like most of the rest of us. And like most of us, they can also be fired, as happens from time to time. Still, their relationships with their boards of directors tend to be friendly, especially where pay is concerned. Last year, the median compensation package for chief executive officers at the 100 largest companies was $3.3 million -- the highest it's ever been in corporate history, even with inflation factored in. And the gulf between executives and lower tiers on the payroll has been growing. In fact, C.E.O.'s often receive raises just as their personnel departments are sending out pink slips.
 
Keeping Score
 But opinions on corporate pay are divided. More Americans are buying stocks and mutual funds, or count on invested pensions, so many do not begrudge extra millions to executives who make them money.
Then again, even Forbes magazine has found itself saying of soaring pay: "It Doesn't Make Sense!" Raising eyebrows are some C.E.O.'s who apparently want to see how far they can push their pay envelopes. The $45 million that Michael Eisner has averaged from Disney in recent years is more than 13 times the corporate norm. With stock options and awards of $998 million, Roberto Goizueta of Coca-Cola has made nearly 100 times more than his executive peers make on average.
True, both have done well by their shareholders. But so have many other C.E.O.'s who are not nearly so lavishly paid. And at least a few who could have pushed for that kind of compensation have chosen not to.
Yet greed, if that's what it is, isn't always about money, and this further clouds the issue of whether it's good or bad. Motives for acquisition are varied, starting with the simple joy of winning. Dollars can be a way of keeping score, whether the game is Rupert Murdoch (net worth: $3.2 billion) vs. Ted Turner ($2.1 billion) or how one's paycheck compares with a colleague's down the hall. Media moguls like Mr. Murdoch and Mr. Turner may crave one more network or newspaper chain, the better to set their imprint on the world -- or perhaps to show long-ago schoolmates who ended on top.
 
Glass Houses
 In fact, Americans have fairly settled standards about who deserves how much. Thus they don't like the heads of health maintenance organizations getting hefty bonuses when they will only pay for one-day maternity stays. And past a certain point, people begin to wonder why someone wants even more, and the speculation is not always flattering.
At the same time, it is not clear how far the urge to acquire drives the economy. If anything, the reverse may be true. For many political and economic reasons, the 1990's have surpassed the 1980's in creating opportunities for becoming rich. And those who do, much like the rest of us, see no reason to refuse what comes their way. If that is perceived as greedy, then a lot of people are living in glass houses.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: INCOME WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LAWYERS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TICKET SALES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); BASKETBALL (67%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); LEGAL SERVICES (61%); 

PERSON: HACKER, ANDREW (PROF) MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); TIGER WOODS (77%); JERRY SEINFELD (70%); JIM CARREY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



140 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3516 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT: For This We Sent You To College?;
Jobs May Be Plentiful, If Not So Glamorous

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

 BODY:
AS sure as the promise of a spring day, millions of proud parents have been descending lately on the nation's campuses, snapping pictures of their daughters and sons collecting college diplomas.
Parents and students alike have been preparing for this moment for decades, before many parents took out second mortgages and the typical graduate piled up $12,300 in debt to help cover bills for tuition, room and board that average $10,000 a year. Now it is time for that steep investment, as much as $130,000 in the case of some elite private schools, to return dividends. 
 There is plenty of good news for those receiving undergraduate degrees this year, but with just enough caveats to keep some people on edge.
Over all, the job market for the 1.2 million graduates this year is the strongest in memory, partly because companies, in their aggressive downsizing drives of recent years, may have laid off too many workers of their parents' generation.
Many Ivy League graduates and those with degrees in highly marketable areas like business administration and computer science can expect plenty of job offers at high pay. And the nation's highest-profile student, Chelsea Clinton, is unlikely to find herself behind a counter waiting on customers when she graduates from Stanford, where she will be a freshman this fall. In contrast, those with weak grades and little patience for job searches may struggle to find work, as they always do.
But just how good is it for the rest of the army that is resolutely marching out of the classrooms and into the real world?
It turns out to be pretty good indeed for a broad swath of the newly minted grads. Many had the luxury of choosing among several job offers months before commencement exercises began. And starting salaries are, for the most part, higher than they were last year.
But even in such upbeat times, the jobs can be far from glamorous. For instance, Rachel D. Gunderson is busy making sure there is enough dirt on the shelves of Target stores. After graduating from the University of Wisconsin, she landed a job ordering potting soil for the chain. Linda C. Roman, of the University of Florida, has signed on at Kraft Foods to improve the packaging for cottage cheese and sour cream.
In fact, many new graduates are fast learning a lesson that their predecessors have had to accept over the decades: they have landed at the bottom of the workaday ladder, with plenty of dues to pay before they step up to the next rung.
And for a growing number of graduates, that ladder isn't even the one that they -- or their long-suffering parents -- originally had in mind. For them, it is not always clear why an expensive education was needed.
"None of my friends ever told me about the car-washing part," said Julie A. Schenk, 22, who turned down two other offers to work as a management trainee at Enterprise Rent-a-Car after graduating in December from the University of Dayton.
Ms. Schenk, whose major was communications management, isn't the only one washing cars -- 5,000 members of the Class of 1997 are expected to sign up with Enterprise, where cleaning is just one of the dues-paying chores.
Others have taken similar training jobs at department store chains, where they wait on customers.
That can leave some parents horrified that their children don't have more to show for all the financial sacrifices.
"It is like sticker shock," said Kevin J. Nutter, the career services director at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis. The problem for people in this group isn't that they won't find work, "but that they may not find what they think is good work," Mr. Nutter said.
That is because the number of service-sector jobs has grown as the number of management positions has shrunk, he said. At the same time, so many people are now graduating from college that a degree no longer carries the cachet that it did even a generation ago.
If the experience of recent graduating classes is any guide, many in this year's crop will quickly grow dissatisfied. Members of the Class of 1994 at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, for example, were asked a year after they graduated whether their college training was being put to good use.
"Almost 40 percent considered themselves underemployed," nearly double the percentage of recent years, said David S. Bechtel, director of the university's career services center.
But there is little complaining so far from the new graduates.
"I had a lot of friends who were working for Enterprise, and they all spoke highly of it," said Ms. Schenk, who said she was not disappointed in her job, despite being surprised by some of her duties.
Others who have crossed over to the working world in recent months are also making do or even flourishing.
Following are four tales from the trenches that offer hope and guidance to those just now trading in their diplomas, caps and gowns for briefcases and business suits.

Rental Clerks
Joining a Fraternity With 12-Hour Days
 Few parents who squirrel away money for years to pay college bills picture their children hanging up a hard-won diploma behind a rental car counter, but about 10,000 moms and dads will watch it happen this year.
Indeed, Enterprise Rent-a-Car is probably hiring more members of this year's graduating class than any other company. The 5,000 graduates scheduled to join Enterprise will be paid $22,000 to $30,000, depending on where they live, and all will start out behind the counters of the company's 3,000 branches around the country.
Most graduates who join Enterprise -- along with their parents -- must first get over the idea of working for a car rental company.
"Recruiting is tough," said Andrew C. Taylor, president and chief executive of Enterprise, based in St. Louis. Some of those who accept jobs have a hard time breaking the news to their families. "What do you think their parents' reaction might be?" Mr. Taylor asked.
Still, satisfied Enterprise hires said they found the jobs refreshing because the company is so entrepreneurial, offering responsibility and a chance to move up quickly.
Mr. Taylor's company tends to hire men and women who are a lot like him -- friendly, clean-cut and active at college in fraternities or sororities or team sports. Oh, and they must not be too proud to clean cars from time to time, either.
"The management of this business started behind a rent-a-car counter," Mr. Taylor said, telling how he recently pitched in to vacuum a car during a visit to a busy Enterprise branch.
Consider William D. Lucy, 25, who was a member of Delta Chi and played intramural volleyball and flag football at Southwest Missouri State University in Springfield. He graduated last year with a 3.2 grade-point average, with a major in marketing and a minor in management.
"I did not go to college thinking I wanted to rent cars," Mr. Lucy acknowledged. Instead, "I saw myself going into business."
The affable Mr. Lucy, who likes to grasp your shoulder when he shakes your hand, had several sales jobs to choose from, but Enterprise looked the best to him. Since starting in March in St. Louis, Mr. Lucy has been working 12-hour days, what passes for normal at Enterprise, starting at 7:15 each morning. He pins a gold name tag -- just plain "Bill" -- on his gray suit and greets customers as they walk in the door.
He rents cars during the morning and evening rushes -- including driving to pick up customers at their homes or offices, Enterprise's trademark service touch. In between, he calls body shops on behalf of renters whose cars were crumpled in accidents. When the mechanics take longer than promised, he calls the renters' insurance companies to arrange for extensions of Enterprise rentals. Once a week, Mr. Lucy spends part of the day delivering pizza or doughnuts to mechanics at nearby repair shops and secretaries at local offices, trying to win business for Enterprise with his company's equivalent of taking a client to lunch.
Now, Mr. Lucy sees himself as the businessman he always wanted to be. "I'm wearing a suit every day," he said with a proud smile.
About 25 percent of Enterprise's trainees will grow dissatisfied and leave the company within six months. Most of those who remain will have a chance to apply for a promotion within a year. Those who make the grade get raises, are named assistant managers and have their salaries tied to the performance of their branches.
If Mr. Lucy does well, he could turn out like Cory A. Phillips, 26, a 1992 graduate of Columbia College in Columbia, Mo., who joined Enterprise 14 months ago and has already been promoted twice.
"If you prove yourself, you don't have to worry about spending two years before you become a manager," said Mr. Phillips, now a branch manager in St. Louis. The training means that all managers learn the business from the bottom up and have a financial interest in seeing it succeed, he said.
Mr. Taylor, the chief executive, said he thought of his company "as a confederation of small businesses run by entrepreneurs."
The strategy seems to have worked: Enterprise now has 31,200 domestic employees but just 1,000 at its corporate headquarters, with 700 of those responsible for keeping the company's computer network up and running. The privately held company has grown 25 percent a year for 11 years, and now has the largest fleet in the rental car business. It avoids airport business, concentrating instead on the so-called replacement niche, providing rentals for customers whose cars are being repaired or who just need an extra set of wheels for a while.
Mr. Taylor, a business major who graduated from the University of Denver, was social chairman of his fraternity, Tau Kappa Epsilon. Things haven't changed all that much he said with a smile, in the three decades since he graduated.
"You see," he said, "I'm the social chairman of a very large company."
 
Packaging Developer
Trading the Stage For Live Culture
 Linda C. Roman started her college career as a theater major who made ends meet by working as a waitress. "Every once in a while I see someone on TV I waited tables with," she said.
But Ms. Roman, too, has left waitressing behind for a full-time job in culture -- in "live cultures," that is, the kind that produce sour cream, cottage cheese and chip dips.
After changing her major to chemical engineering, Ms. Roman was offered a job in Glenview, Ill., at Kraft Foods, which is owned by Philip Morris and is the country's largest packaged-food company. She helps develop the packaging for 126 varieties of Kraft products, chief among them Breakstone's sour cream, Light 'n Lively cottage cheese and Kraft creamy onion dip.
Kraft plans to hire 85 new graduates like Ms. Roman this year to help sell more Jell-O, Stove Top Stuffing, Maxwell House coffee, Kool-Aid, Toblerone chocolate bars and Cheez Whiz spread, paying salaries of $21,000 to $42,000. Thousands of similar entry-level jobs will be filled at companies like General Mills, Nabisco and Frito-Lay; Procter & Gamble will hire more than 700.
When Ms. Roman, 31, graduated last August from the University of Florida in Gainesville with a grade-point average of 3.75, she had long since sewn up the job at Kraft; its offer was one of five that came her way. So in the weeks after graduation, she took the time to portray the Wicked Witch in a children's play before moving to the Chicago suburbs last September to begin at Kraft.
There, she works in her cubicle or in a lab, and has so far visited five of the six factories where her sour creams, dips and cottage cheeses are made, making sure the plastic tubs and boxes work properly and helping to develop better packaging for future products. In the lab, she measures and tests the packages, checking, for instance, that when a customer opens a lid, it peels off smoothly and doesn't tear. "I love the consumer end," she said.
She didn't expect to. Ms. Roman recalls her negative reaction when she came upon Kraft at a college recruiting fair. "When I first saw Kraft, I didn't want to work for them," she said. She thought that serious chemical engineers worked for oil and chemical corporations, she said, not a company best known for macaroni and cheese.
Kraft's competitors face similar hurdles. A glossy brochure distributed by Procter & Gamble at recruitment fairs shows young employees standing proudly next to their wares: Metamucil, Sure deodorant and Charmin toilet paper.
Still, one irresistible force lured plenty of candidates to the Kraft recruiting booth on campus. "They had free food," Ms. Roman said with a shrug. After a summer internship in which she helped develop apple-cinammon-flavored cream cheese, she discovered that she liked applying what she learned in the classroom to the real world of supermarket shelves.
Being an actress might be more glamorous, but her father, Kenneth Roman, said he used to worry about her plans to make a living on stage. "Two out of a thousand make it," he said.
Now, Mr. Roman says he feels his daughter has a secure future. "I really had no idea that she would go into engineering," Mr. Roman said. "I feel very proud."
Indeed, his daughter is among those that Kraft found through its college recruitment program. Kraft focuses its recruiting efforts on a short list of large colleges and universities where it previously had success: Ohio State, Wisconsin, Penn State, Purdue, Howard, Florida and Michigan State, along with Illinois and Northwestern -- schools that are relatively near its headquarters in Northfield, Ill.
Kraft weeds out some students in short, on-campus interviews, then brings the rest to Chicago for further screening. Students check into a hotel the night before their interview to find duffel bags full of -- what else? -- Kraft food. With the economy booming, recruiters try to decide quickly whom to hire.
"If you wait to make an offer," said Karen Y. Vaughn, a senior human resources manager at Kraft, "the good students are gone."

Merchandise Analysts
From Shirt Buying To Dirt Buying
Deep inside a building in downtown Minneapolis, past the rows of cubicles watched over by a giant Winnie the Pooh and dozens of other stuffed animals, beyond the spot where the furry animals give way to plants lining the offices, is the desk of Rachel D. Gunderson, 22.
Ms. Gunderson, a graduate of the University of Wisconsin at Madison, is one of the newest merchandise analysts at the headquarters of Target, the discount-store chain.
"I'm in charge of soil," Ms. Gunderson said. As in potting soil. Target sells about 20 different bags, and it falls on Ms. Gunderson to make sure there is enough on the shelves of the chain's 750 stores nationwide.
Buying dirt for Target is typical of the entry-level responsibilities that thousands of this year's graduates will soon assume. The Dayton Hudson Corporation, based in Minneapolis, owns Target, Mervyn's and three department store chains: Dayton's, Hudson's and Marshall Field's. The company plans to hire 1,150 graduates this year at starting pay of $30,000 to $34,000. Dayton Hudson's competitors -- including the May Department Stores, Neiman Marcus, J. C. Penney, Kmart and Federated Department Stores -- together hire thousands more.
Ms. Gunderson, who graduated with a 3.0 grade-point average in December, started her job in mid-April. A journalism major who specialized in marketing and had a minor in business, she turned down an offer from Andersen Consulting and instead took this 8-to-5 job, which came with 12 weeks of training.
Ms. Gunderson inherited the potting-soil responsibilities from her designated mentor. She is learning how to send electronic orders to Target's suppliers, how to use spreadsheets to show soil sales histories and how to project how many bags of dirt Target will need on hand when an ad for potting soil appears.
Jacqueline T. Punch, central human resources director for Dayton Hudson, said competition for high-quality graduates was fierce. "There is definitely a sense that they can be very selective," Ms. Punch said. "The last two years it has really become more difficult."
Still, Dayton Hudson hires only 5 to 7 percent of the students it talks to, so the competition goes both ways.
The entry-level merchandising jobs go fast. "This job is like the most sought-after position" at the Carlson School of Management of the University of Minnesota, said another new Target merchandise analyst, Douglas M. Fischer, 23.
After graduating in March with an accounting major and a 3.0 grade-point average, Mr. Fischer was put in charge of buying stationery at Target. His best day so far came when he pushed a button on his computer to order $350,000 worth of paper and envelopes.
Across the street, Rebecca E. Johnson, 23, who graduated from the University of Michigan with an art history degree and a 3.4 grade-point average, is a merchant trainee for Dayton's. Her job is to help select the men's shirts and ties for the department store chain.
By the time Ms. Johnson, Ms. Gunderson and Mr. Fischer hand their shirt buying, dirt-buying and stationery-buying responsibilities to the graduates of 1998, they could be well on their way to solid futures at Dayton Hudson. Within five years, successful new hires earn $45,000 to $70,000 as full-fledged buyers, Ms. Punch said.

Technical Assistants
Helping Hands For Various Clients
 Andersen Consulting is a ubiquitous name at college career fairs. More than 150,000 seniors -- about 13 percent of the nation's graduating class -- sent their resumes to the company this year. About 4,200 will be hired by Andersen Consulting, the management and technical consulting arm of Andersen Worldwide.
So what do all those new hires do? Think of Andersen Consulting as a giant temporary firm, only with far better pay (starting salaries are $31,000 to $45,000) and more challenging assignments than those of, say, Kelly Services or Manpower Inc.
Many Fortune 500 companies depend on Andersen Consulting to send teams of energetic, well-educated workers to complete short-term tasks or complicated grunt work -- like making various computer systems talk to one another -- for which they don't want to hire their own staff.
Companies also use Andersen for more traditional management consulting jobs -- to guide strategic planning, for instance -- but Andersen hires mostly M.B.A.'s for those spots.
The Dallas office is one of 23 nationwide for Andersen Consulting, but only a small percentage of its employees in the region work in the tidy offices on the 54th floor of a glass skyscraper downtown. Most report to the offices of Andersen clients in the area for a few weeks or months, then move to another project at a different client.
Malane Rogers, 23, is a good example. She graduated from the University of Arkansas in December with a degree in industrial engineering and a 2.9 grade-point average. She started at Andersen in February, and travels each morning to the Dallas office of Texas Instruments.
Her task is to pull detailed financial data from Texas Instruments' huge mainframe computers and fashion them into easy-to-read reports for company executives. When a vice president wants to check quarterly revenues in a certain region, Ms. Rogers finds the needles in the data haystack.
Well before she graduated, Ms. Rogers had four other job offers, and would have had more had she not tightly limited her interviewing to companies in which she was keenly interested.
Thousands of graduates like Ms. Rogers are hired by Andersen and its brethren in the consulting field -- Price Waterhouse and Ernst & Young's consulting arms, as well as computer consulting firms like Electronic Data Systems. The Big Six accounting firms -- including Andersen Consulting's sister company, Andersen Accounting -- hire still more thousands for traditional accounting jobs.
Kim K. Dodson, 23, turned down 11 other offers to sign on at Andersen Consulting. She graduated from Texas A & M with a 3.4 grade-point average, having majored in business analysis, and started work in February. She wears a gold Aggie ring -- a popular accessory in Andersen's Dallas office -- with her business suit. For the last six weeks, she has been driving to the Fort Worth offices of Burlington Resources, an oil and gas company, to help program its computers.
Also working on Burlington's new computer codes is Nichole A. Inloes, 22, a December graduate of Texas A & M with a major in marketing. She programs Burlington's computers to cut checks automatically for energy royalties.
She is glad she chose Andersen over the other company that offered her a job: Enterprise Rent-a-Car.
Her father, Gerald T. Inloes of San Antonio, said he was looking forward, now that the college expenses were past, to resuming the family's trips to the beach at Corpus Christi and an annual vacation in Las Vegas, luxuries the Inloes had been doing without.
Still, the financial sacrifice was worth it. "I don't regret it for a second," Mr. Inloes said. "I am just so proud of her."

GRAPHIC: Photos: William D. Lucy, Southwest Missouri State University -- Rents out vehicles for Enterprise Rent-a-Car (5,000 graduates hired; starting pay from $22,000 to $30,000); Rachel D. Gunderson, University of Wisconsin -- Orders potting soil for Target stores (1,150 hired by Target's parent, Dayton Hudson; starting pay from $30,000 to $34,000); Linda C. Roman, University of Florida -- Develops packaging for Kraft cottage cheese and dips. (85 graduates hired; starting pay from $21,000 to $42,000); Malane Rogers, University of Arkansas -- Creates reports for clients of Andersen Consulting. (4,200 hired; starting pay from $31,000 to $45,000)(pg. 1); Rebecca E. Johnson, a University of Michigan graduate and merchant trainee for Dayton's in Minneapolis, helps select the ties sold by the department store chain.; After Douglas M. Fischer left the University of Minnesota, he was put in charge of buying stationery for Target Stores. His orders on one recent day came to $350,000. (Steve Woit for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 
Table: "New Blood"
Number of 1997 college graduates each company is planning to hire this year.
 
Enterprise Rent-a-Car -- 5,000
Andersen Consulting -- 4,200
Lockheed -- 2,040
Price Waterhouse -- 1,500
General Electric -- 1,300
Dayton Hudson* -- 1,150
Motorola -- 1,000
Procter & Gamble -- 700
Osco Drugs (American Stores) -- 600
Caterpillar -- 400
Amoco -- 200
Ameritech -- 150
Chrysler -- 160
Hyatt -- 150
Kraft+ -- 65
 
*Owns Target Stores. +Owned by Philip Morris.
 
(Source: Listed companies)(pg. 10)
 
Graphs: "College on the Up and Up -- and Up" tracks the average cost for a year of college tuition with room and board, the number of college graduates, and the estimated cumulative debt for four-year college graduates who borrowed money to earn bachelor degrees. Graphs run from 1980 through 1997.
 
(Sources: Department of Education; Sallie Mae)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (52%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (52%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (52%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ;ENTERPRISE RENT-A-CAR INC TARGET CORP (52%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (52%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (59%); SOUTHWEST MISSOURI STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (59%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); SOUTHWEST MISSOURI STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;ENTERPRISE RENT-A-CAR INC UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (59%); SOUTHWEST MISSOURI STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (59%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); SOUTHWEST MISSOURI STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; HIRING AND PROMOTION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WAGES AND SALARIES EMPLOYMENT (95%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); PARENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); TUITION FEES (73%); STUDENT EXPENSES (72%); SECOND MORTGAGES (70%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (67%); CHEESE (65%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (65%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN; SCHENK, JULIE A; LUCY, WILLIAM D; GUNDERSON, RACHEL D; ROMAN, LINDA C; ROGERS, MALANE ; JOHNSON, REBECA E; FISCHER, DOUGLAS M HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



141 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: The World;
You Spy? Let's Talk

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

 BODY:
MI5, the British foreign intelligence service, placed its first help wanted ad a few days ago, offering "a career like no other" and listing a telephone number to call.
But a smart-aleck hacker infiltrated MI5's answering machine. Thousands who responded heard a message from "Colonel Botch of the K.G.B.," the old Soviet espionage outfit, promising callers their resumes would be forwarded to Moscow. Aspiring James Bonds were shaken, not stirred. 
 Times are tough for the world's spy services. Their mystique has all but evaporated. Bereaved by the cold war's close, bereft of their old enemies, betrayed by their own spies, American, British and Russian intelligence want fresh blood. Each is shopping for new talent, each in its own way.
The Russians are trying to turn their traitors into double agents. On Tuesday, Gen. Nikolai Kovalyov, head of the Federal Security Service, the successor to the K.G.B., announced on television a telephone hot line he had set up for Russian citizens spying for foreign powers. The deal: 'Fess up, do your duty for the motherland and you can get two paychecks, one from us and one from your foreign paymasters. This is what the once fearsome and secretive spy service has come to: pleading for charity on TV.
To attack the international mafias that are flourishing in Moscow, Russian intelligence is also hiring crime-busting gumshoes. Bring your own gun, a bad attitude and a short life expectancy.
The British spy service's ads seek a more buttoned-down breed: business managers and university graduates with four years' work experience. They note that British intelligence officers have had past lives as marketing executives, teachers, fund-raisers, overseas aid workers, teachers and -- heaven forfend -- reporters. The Brits, like the Russians, are focusing on drug smuggling, organized crime and terrorism.
And the Central Intelligence Agency -- well, the C.I.A. has been placing help wanted notices (no, they're not called "classifieds") for 17 years. Last year it ran about 60 newspaper ads and about 120 ads in magazines and professional journals, from The Economist to Ebony. The agency's website (www.odci.gov/cia) just listed openings for computer whizzes, language instructors, psychologists, theatrical effects specialists (experienced in cosmetology, makeup and costuming), and leather and fabric crafters skilled in "fabrication." There is still call for false-bottomed diplomatic pouches.
The agency, though, also wants young spies. "More than a job, this is a way of life," its latest ad says. "It demands an adventurous spirit . . . a forceful personality . . . superior intellectual ability . . . toughness of mind . . . and the highest degree of integrity." Advanced degrees and military experience are pluses, as are "backgrounds in Central Eurasian, East Asian and Middle Eastern languages."
Boiled down to the basics, that ad might read: Wanted -- 25-year-old Asian-American woman with M.B.A. and working knowledge of automatic weapons, expert in computer programming, fluent in Turkic and Uzbek. Middling salary, long hours, utter anonymity. Call the C.I.A. -- please.
The agency badly wants Asian-Americans and African-Americans, who can blend into a marketplace in Kinshasa or a bazaar in Beijing a lot easier than a white guy. But they are hard to find and to keep, the agency has discovered.
In the 1950's, the C.I.A. skimmed the cream off the Ivies, Wall Street and Madison Avenue. In the 1990's, potential spies have either skills worth more than the salaries the agency can pay ($32,507 to start), or experience well shy of the C.I.A.'s deep needs. That Asian-American M.B.A. can go to Morgan Stanley and make serious money, without having to pass a lie-detector test.
To make matters worse, the C.I.A.'s hiring and personnel systems have been "deteriorating for the past 15 years," the agency's executive director, Nora Slaktin, told Congress last September. Between 1979 and 1996, she said, "there have been five major studies of the agency's human resources system with a total of 66 recommendations" but only one recommendation, an annual report card, was instituted agency wide.
As a result, she said, "We invest large amounts of money in hiring exceptionally skilled employees but fail to give them the best opportunities to grow and flourish. We invest too much money targeting, screening and hiring our employees to lose them or to use them ineffectively."
 
Career Killers
 So what is the C.I.A. to do? It says it is changing the way that it hires, trains, retains and promotes people. Its director-designate, George J. Tenet, said at his confirmation hearings that this was the single most important task before him. As Ms. Slatkin testified, "we have pigeon-holed employees in positions for too long." In the future, she said, anyone will be able to compete for any position. Training will be career-long. Pay will be linked to performance.
But last week the new generation of spies was reminded that intelligence is a profession peculiarly susceptible to Murphy's Law. A former C.I.A. station chief, Harold J. Nicholson, the agency's own Colonel Botch, was sentenced to 23 years and seven months in prison on Thursday for selling the Russians every secret he had learned in his 16 years with the agency. Among them were the identities of many of the 1994, 1995 and 1996 graduates of the C.I.A.'s school for spies -- trainees he himself had instructed in the black arts of espionage.
Thanks to Mr. Nicholson, many of those young officers are now condemned to desk-bound drudgery far from the back alleys of the world -- to careers like any other.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sean Connery, the original 007. (Movie Still Archives); James Bonds carry on: from left, Timothy Dalton, Roger Moore and Pierce Brosnan. (Theodore Wood/Camera Press/Retna)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY EASTERN LANGUAGES (50%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES; HIRING AND PROMOTION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; ESPIONAGE ESPIONAGE (94%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (92%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (86%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); COMPUTER CRIME (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); TERRORISM (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); ORGANIZED CRIME (64%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (58%); SMUGGLING (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; TENET, GEORGE J MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



142 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Pricing the Convenience of A.T.M.'s

 BODY:
"Is Your A.T.M. Ripping You Off?" by David J. Morrow (May 4) discussed the fees assessed to withdraw cash from the nation's automated teller machines. The article drew varied responses from readers.
 
To the Editor: 
 As bankers in the Midwest, we were astonished to read the article about the fees at A.T.M.'s. The business of securing cash appears much different from where we sit. Here are a few examples:
* The article said the cost of cashing a $100 personal check at a check-cashing service in New York was $1.10, compared with $2.50 at an A.T.M. that levies surcharges. To test that idea here, I spent an afternoon trying to cash a personal check at such a service in Columbus, Ohio. The best deal I could find was at a cost of 10 percent, if I had more than five times that amount in a checking account. So that $100 check would cost the Ohio consumer $10, plus the cost of money sitting in deposit.
* It's difficult here to believe that "legislators and consumer watchdog groups are worried about the impact of the new fees on the nation's 11,867 credit unions." Credit unions take great care of themselves and their customers at the expense of taxpaying citizens. Bank customers already pay to pick up the trash, pave the streets and defend the country for the tax-subsidized credit unions and their customers. Midwesterners have no problem if banks make the credit unions foot their own A.T.M. bill. After all, banks and their customers built and paid for the A.T.M. networks.
* In Ohio we're accustomed to paying more for product and service convenience. When we buy bread at a convenience store, it costs more than at the grocery chain. When we make a phone call from our hotel room it costs more than at the pay phone in the lobby. To advocate that government should control the price of these or a checking account or A.T.M. access seems un-American. Banks, like every other business, charge market rates for their products. It's called capitalism and, the last we checked, it was the preferred economic system throughout the United States.

ANNIE HALL
Columbus, Ohio, May 5
 
The writer is director of the office of public policy at the Banc One Corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANC ONE CORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANC ONE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMATIC TELLER MACHINES (ATM); BANKS AND BANKING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (89%); CREDIT UNIONS (88%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); WRITERS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CONSUMER LAW (67%); CONVENIENCE STORES (67%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: HALL, ANNIE (BANK EXEC) MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



143 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 122 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

MONDAY
The Agriculture Department releases its weekly report on the condition of crops.
 
TUESDAY
President Clinton is scheduled to hold a news conference. 

WEDNESDAY
The Mortgage Bankers Association issues its weekly report on mortgage applications.
 
THURSDAY
The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta releases its national production index for May.
The Commerce Department reports on retail sales for May.
The Labor Department reports on initial claims for unemployment insurance.
 
FRIDAY
The University of Michigan issues its monthly index of consumer sentiment.
The Labor Department reports the Producer Price Index for May.
The Commerce Department reports on business inventories and sales for May.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (88%); MORTGAGE LOANS (87%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (86%); INVENTORIES (86%); PRESS CONFERENCES (85%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); CENTRAL BANKS (85%); RETAIL SALES (84%); PRODUCER PRICES (84%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (83%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (74%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (74%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



144 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING 

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
Jobless Rate at 23-Year Low
Isn't it wonderful how politicians, with a straight face, can take credit for just about anything? President Clinton can't even persuade Congress to send him a flood-relief bill without all sorts of empty cans clanging along behind it, but when the unemployment rate fell to a 23-year low of 4.8 percent, there he was trumpeting that it was on his watch. "The American economy has now added 12.3 million new jobs since I took office," he said, "and unemployment has now been below 6 percent for almost three years." Just how good was Friday's employment report? Hard to say. The other big number is added jobs, and May's number was a modest 138,000. But an added twist was that the Labor Department revised the April number from 142,000 to 323,000. Slippery things, these statistics.

EUROPE
Zigzagging Toward Unity
Europe's road to that mighty union is proving bumpy indeed. France can't seem to decide what kind of Government it wants, with last week's pendulum swing giving a decisive election victory to the Socialists, with their promises to focus on jobs, jobs, jobs -- and to forget budget deficits. And in Germany, which has lost over a million jobs in five years, a union agreement opened up the possibility that companies in trouble can cut wages 10 percent. That's quite a change in a country for famously rigid work rules. For the moment, at least, this is all good news for people with dollars, for the tremors weakened both the franc and the mark.
 
BEYOND FRACTIONS
Hey, Can You Spare an Eighth?
"So, what did you sell the stock for?" "Oh, $11.3125 a share." Huh? This is English? This is the best that higher math, computerized trading and zillion-dollar Wall Street minds can come up with -- trading stock not for $11.25 or $11.50, but for an otherworldly 11 5/16? Alas, yes. It supposedly has something to do with Spanish pieces of eight, but you know the real reason: more little odd fractions, more "golden crumbs" to be scraped up by Wall Street. Last week, Nasdaq said it would look into decimal pricing -- but it isn't exactly rushing, promising nothing but an opinion by Labor Day. The New York Stock Exchange, though, vowed to go decimal by 2000. Some people thought that was rushing things, since computers already have to cope with the "year 2000 problem." Poor Wall Street, they fear, will blow a fuse if it has to deal with both at once.
 
McDONALD'S
Poor Little Rich Company
The business world has an odd definition of a company in trouble. Consider McDonald's: revenues and earnings have set records every year since 1955, and the McDonald's brand name is now called the mightiest in the world. So clearly, this is a faltering business calling for drastic action -- like that mystifying 55-cent promotion the company mercifully laid to rest last week. What was it, exactly, that cost 55 cents? That was never quite clear; you often needed a calculator to figure out if you were saving money. McDonald's felt it had to try something, though, because -- horrors! -- it isn't growing as fast as it used to. Could it simply be that people can eat only so much fast food?
 
THIS SPACE AVAILABLE
Place Your Ad Here
It's coming: the world as one giant advertisement. If you read a magazine in public, you risk a littering fine as the ad inserts flutter out. Ads are creeping into "public" radio and TV (though they're called "enhanced announcements," or some such doublespeak). The mighty Jeep plowing fearlessly through the wild in "Breakdown," or the Mercedes taking on T. Rex in "Lost World," is a pure midmovie commercial. Teen-agers have somehow been coaxed to become walking billboards for brands like Tommy Hilfiger. And now the New York City's Metropolitan Transportation Authority wants us to carry advertising in our wallets, with Metrocards about to be embellished with Modell's ads. Pretty soon you'll hike to some glorious peak and find a sign saying, "This view brought to you by . . .
 
FUEL STANDARDS
A Ticket to Guzzle
By 2001, Ford says it is going to turn out 250,000 cars, mini-vans and pickups that burn either ethanol or gasoline. Certainly sounds like good news on the clean-air front, right? Take a closer look. First you've got to find a station that sells ethanol -- there are now about 40 nationwide. And then you'll have to pay about 15 percent more a mile to use it. Take a wild guess how many of those 250,000 drivers will stick with gasoline. So why did Ford bother? Simple. Federal rules on fuel standards are so, well, fanciful that these dual-fuel vehicles, even though they seem likely to have a minuscule impact on gasoline use, still earn Ford points with the clean-air police. And this, in turn, means Ford is allowed to turn out more of those gas-guzzling monsters that are taking over our streets.
 
EDUCATION
Starting From Scratch
Pretend that higher education is a used car. After years of fixing the brakes, fighting the rust, living with the rattles, you yearn for a clean slate. But philanthropists who want to put their stamp on education can't exactly ditch a college as easily as an old car -- they must usually content themselves with trying to nudge an institution in a new direction. Usually, but not always. Last week, the F. W. Olin Foundation, frustrated with what it called the overspecialization in engineering training, simply went out and bought itself a shiny new college. It is committing $200 million -- the biggest gift ever to higher education -- to create Franklin W. Olin College (named for the founder of the Olin Corporation, who died in 1951) near Boston. The foundation should bear in mind, though, that the second a new car leaves the showroom, it's a used car.
 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE
Creative Checking
Michele Lima of New York City received an invitation to a Democratic fund-raiser this spring. Nothing unusual about that. After all, she wrote a $3,000 check last year as her small contribution to the Democratic cause. One puzzling thing, though: Brian Lima said last week that his mother had never donated to political campaigns. Oh, and one more thing: Ms. Lima died a decade ago. This is just one of what Federal investigators suspect were countless examples of fraudulent donations to the Democrats, including checks from phony corporations. The Democrats have professed their desire to return hundreds of thousands of dollars in questionable contributions, but guess what: they often can't find the donors.
 
HONG KONG
Protesting Too Much?
When someone says "We are not panicked" or "We are not in trouble," one might think of a certain President who tended to say, "I am not a crook." No, Hong Kong's business tycoons say, there's nothing to panic about as July 1 approaches -- the day Hong Kong becomes part of China. They are scared, though, but it's not the China part that scares them -- it's their fear that American investors will panic. It's like the stock market -- traders don't care about the day's news anywhere near as much as they care about how other investors react to that news. If America gets scared by shadows in Hong Kong, the damage will be real.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A "Goddess of Democracy" statue left by Hong Kong demonstrators marking the anniversary of the Tiananmen Square crackdown. (Associated Press)
 
Graph shows the unemployment rate since 1975.
 
Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (73%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); US LABOR DAY (70%); CURRENCIES (68%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (51%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); 

PERSON: HERRING, HUBERT B BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



145 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Dr. Dostoyevsky's Diagnosis;
Deep in the Russian Soul, a Lethal Darkness

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER 

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
THERE are few more shocking trips one can take in Russia than to the general wards of a major hospital. Despite the well-publicized problems of the Russian health care system, it is not the hospitals themselves, or their staffs, that give alarm: it is almost always the age of the patients and their condition.
"Lung disease, heart attack, cancer, alcohol poisoning, high blood pressure." Tanya Rodinova, a 20-year-old nurse at this city's Hospital Number 4, reeled off the afflictions of five men, none of them yet 50. "The usual stuff. They are all going to die." 
 It may sound dismissive, but it is certainly true. Russian men are dying in middle age at a rate unparalleled in modern history: from too much smoking, too much vodka, horrid diets, little exercise and the enormous stress of rapid economic change and social dislocation since the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Suicides are on the rise, so are murders, and some Russians wonder if yet another less tangible factor should be added: the gloomy Russian psyche. It is not the first time the question has been raised.
"It is the indifference toward everything that is vital -- toward the truth of life, everything that nourishes life and generates health," Fyodor Dostoyevsky wrote in 1876, complaining of what seemed to be the incurable darkness of the Russian soul. "In our day this indifference -- compared, let us say, with the outlook of other, European nations -- is almost a Russian disease."
It is not clear that such pessimism over the future and the health of the nation was justified 100 years ago. There can be no doubt that it is now. An astonishing drop in life expectancy for Russian men over the past decade, combined with one of the lowest birthrates on earth, has turned this country into a demographic freak show.
There is almost no current demographic fact about Russia that would fail to shock: per capita alcohol consumption is the highest in the world, nearly double the danger level drawn by the World Health Organization; a wider gap has developed in life expectancy between men (59) and women (73) than in any other country; the mortality rate of 15.1 deaths per 1,000 people puts Russia ahead of only Afghanistan and Cambodia among the countries of Europe, Asia and America (the rate for the United States is 8.8); the death rate among working-age Russians today is higher than a century ago. And there is much more.
"The current death rates present the clearest possible threat to the national security of Russia," a special report to President Boris N. Yeltsin recently concluded. "Only extreme measures will help us out of this demographic crisis."
 
Societal Suicide
 Yet the health crisis has received little top-level attention and almost no money. The Government spends less than 2.6 percent of the gross national product on health care, far below the levels of other industrial nations. For the most part, it has been nationalist politicians and health care advocates who have led the debate on the mortality issue, casting it as "genocide" for the Russian people.
"I don't think when you are killing off half a million able-bodied men every year, it is unfair to call that genocide," said Aleksandr Prokhanov, the extremist editor of the newspaper Zavtra and the intellectual leader of the nationalist opposition. To him and his allies, the figures reflect the economic changes of the Yeltsin era.
"How many have to die before we realize what is going on here?" he said.
Most demographers say the slide in health began long ago and was covered up by inconsistent and contradictory statistics. Whatever the reasons, the figures for the past five years are worse than ever: the mortality rate for Russian men age 40 to 49 was 16.3 per 1,000 in 1995, 77 percent higher than in 1990, when it was 9.2.
Even the good news is hard to take: Life expectancy for men may actually have risen slightly in 1996 from the previous year -- simply because the most vulnerable young people have already died. The raw number of sick children, appallingly high by any standard, appears lower this year only because so few children have been born over the past several years.
"It has become an issue of ethics, of morality and of politics," said Dr. Valery Yelizarov, a demographer at Moscow State University. "No society can survive such patterns for long. What bothers me most is how people assume it is inevitable, part of the Russian male mentality. Russian men have always had an indifference to their health. But it has to stop or the consequences will be too awful to predict."
Soon after Dostoyevsky noted the "Russian disease," demographers carried out the nation's first major census and projected that by this time the population would be 400 million. Instead, it is 147.5 million, and the most recent report to Mr. Yeltsin suggests that if new health and education initiatives are not adopted soon the population of Russia will decrease by as much as 30 million in the next 50 years.
The implications of such change are stark. Of the 3.5 million people under age 60 who died in Russia over the past five years -- a figure with parallels in modern history only during vast famines or prolonged wars -- most have been working-age people desperately needed to help lift Russia from its depression.
In 1940, working-age people accounted for 40 percent of the population and the elderly 8 percent. Now the figure for the elderly is triple that proportion, nearly 24 percent, while that for working-age people has been cut in half.
 
No Confidence, No Children
 And there is no sign of relief. Despite a slight rise in life expectancy, the Russian population fell by 480,000 last year, the steepest such decline in any year since World War II, according to state statistics.
"You do have to ask yourself how long can this go on?" said Carl Haub, a demographer with the Population Reference Bureau in Washington. Russia's low birthrate -- only Italy and Spain have lower ones -- is a clear reflection, he said, of a lack of optimism for the future among Russians.
"You keep expecting it to turn around and it doesn't," he said. "Obviously there are very significant long-term implications to all this. People often focus on the death rate. And in Russia, of course, it is bad. But the birthrate and the health of children who are born play a much larger role than the death rate. They are the future of the country."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A gloomy spirit oppresses Russian men. Poor diet and too much smoking and drinking don't help. (Stif Stasig/2Maj/Impact Visuals)
 
Graph: "Mortal Coils" shows deaths in Russia for men aged 16 to 59 and women 16 to 54. Figures reflect data from 1990 and 1995. (Source: Russian Federal Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (51%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (51%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: MEN; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; DEPRESSION (MENTAL) DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); MEN (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); CANCER (76%); POISONINGS (76%); DEPRESSION (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (76%); HYPERTENSION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRENDS (73%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); HEART DISEASE (71%); HISTORY (69%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DOSTOYEVSKY, FYODOR (1821-81); SPECTER, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



146 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week In Review Desk 

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Labor's Lost Love;
A Union Comeback? Tell It to Sweeney

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
SINCE taking the helm of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. 20 months ago, John J. Sweeney has learned more than he would like about Newton's third law of motion: every action has an opposite and equal reaction. He has discovered that every move labor makes to dig itself out of its hole is countered by a move to shove labor back in.
Last fall, the 13 million-member labor federation spent more than it ever had before in the hope of recapturing Congress for the Democrats, but that only spurred corporations to contribute more to Republicans, thus largely negating the unions' push. Now labor is doubling its budget to recruit new members, but that has merely encouraged business to hire even more pinstriped consultants and lawyers to beat back the unions. 
 "Every action does generate a reaction, and at the end it's not clear whether labor is better off or worse off," said Gregory Tarpinian, executive director of the Labor Research Association, a consulting group. "At the same time, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has no choice but to keep on pushing ahead."
Certainly labor's rank and file and liberals in general have applauded Mr. Sweeney's effort to bring labor back from the dead. But countervailing forces are strong.
Despite his campaign for new members, the number of unionized workers fell over the last two years by nearly 500,000, pushed down by powerful forces like downsizing and the flight of jobs overseas. And then, of course, there is a new economic mood. Decades ago, many Americans grew up in pro-union, pro-New Deal households and saw themselves as members of the working class, but now many Americans see themselves as part of an upwardly mobile middle class that views unions as irrelevant.
There is a new political mood, too. Not only did the Democrats fail to win back the House and Senate, but Congress in many ways is more hostile to labor than it was before Mr. Sweeney became the federation's president. The first legislation House Republicans took up was a bill to overhaul the 60-year-old law on overtime, which is sacrosanct to labor. The House passed the bill, and it awaits a Senate vote.
And while the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has built up many chits with the White House, President Clinton has ignored many of labor's wishes. He signed the new welfare law, despite labor's opposition. In choosing a successor to Labor Secretary Robert Reich, he shunned labor's No. 1 choice, former Senator Harris Wofford, naming instead Alexis Herman, a distant second choice. And he is expected to seek to expand the North American Free Trade Agreement without the protections demanded by unions.
In an interview, Mr. Sweeney resisted suggestions that progress had been slower or harder than expected. "I really think that things are going great," he said. "I couldn't be more enthusiastic about the excitement that I see when I travel around."
He noted that more than 1,000 college students enrolled in a union internship program last summer that aimed to turn them into labor activists. He also noted that 725 people attended a recent conference in Miami, never a hotbed of unionism, on how to recruit workers. And in April, he noted, more than 20,000 activists from dozens of unions trekked to Watsonville, Calif., to propel an effort to unionize strawberry workers.
Downplaying any setbacks, Mr. Sweeney had a practical message: Unless labor continues plowing ahead with its efforts at regeneration, it is doomed to continue its decades-long slide. To plow ahead, he is pushing strategies like strengthening ties with the clergy and minorities, rebuilding moribund city labor councils and redoubling efforts to recruit women and low-wage employees, like janitors, nurses' aides and even workfare workers -- a fast-growing group that labor fears is taking away union jobs and pulling down wages.
Mr. Sweeney, labor experts say, has a rare window of opportunity to turn things around after the movement drifted toward oblivion during the 15 years that his predecessor, Lane Kirkland, ran the federation. Buying into Mr. Sweeney's strategy, labor leaders, often a churlish, tight-fisted bunch, have pledged money and manpower to organizing and politics -- although only about 15 of the 78 unions in the A.F.L.-C.I.O. are vigorously recruiting new members. As for the rank and file, it is showing more enthusiasm than it has in decades; many more members of the machinists, service employees and hotel workers unions, for example, are volunteering evenings and weekends to organizing campaigns.
In light of labor's recent setbacks, it has dawned on many union members that expectations for a quick rebound might have been unrealistically high.
The obstacles are daunting and public apathy pervasive. Labor still often comes up empty handed from lengthy strikes, like that at the Detroit newspapers. Many union locals are still headed by $150,000-a-year bureaucrats who critics complain care more about their Cadillacs than about organizing. Labor has struck out in recruiting workers in one of the nation's fastest growing industries: computers, including manufacturing, software and data processing.
Mr. Sweeney says expectations of a quick turnaround are naive. "Anybody who has thought about it knows that for the kind of growth and level of changes we need, we have to build an entirely new foundation," he said. "The decline has been a long time coming. What we're doing now is a huge undertaking. We made a start on it last year, but the bottom line is about rebuilding a progressive voice in our country. That's something that has been needed for a long time, and it's not going to happen overnight."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John J. Sweeney, center, was arrested in a protest in New Haven, Conn., in December. (Reuters)
 
Graph: "Union Blues" shows percentage of total work force who are members of unions, 1977-95. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNIONIZATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SWEENEY, JOHN; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



147 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
God Is Also a Cosmologist

BYLINE: By MARGARET WERTHEIM; Margaret Wertheim is producing a documentary about science and religion for public television.

 BODY:
BEHOLD how through my effort God is being celebrated in astronomy." So wrote Johannes Kepler, the world's first astrophysicist, in 1595. For Kepler, as for Newton, the cosmos was a reflection of God. Its very structure mirrored the holy trinity.
The idea of the universe as a reflection of God has become unfashionable in scientific circles since the Enlightenment. Yet given a recent survey that found that 40 percent of American scientists believe in a personal God they can pray to, it is clear that being a scientist is not incompatible with religious faith. 
Last month, the Center for Theology and the Natural Sciences, in Berkeley, Calif., hosted an international gathering of cosmologists and astrophysicists to explore just how contemporary cosmology, the scientific study of the universe, might be compatible with various religions. Each of the three monotheistic faiths were represented: Judaism, Christianity and Islam. Though not all participants believed in a personal God, it was evident that numerous religious interpretations could be sustained by one cosmology.
Joel Primack, a cosmologist at the University of California at Santa Cruz, suggested an analogy between the inflationary model of cosmological origin and the myth of creation in the cabala, a body of Jewish mystic writings dating from the late Middle Ages. God is believed to have sent a shaft of light into the empty space from which he had withdrawn. The light overflowed into the 10 aspects of God that form the core of the cabala, the sephirot, and created the universe. "Of the 10 sephirot," Mr. Primack said, "the first three correspond fairly closely to concepts from the theories of inflation and eternal inflation."
 
A Bubbling Potential
 The first of the sephirot is Keter, a symbol of God's infinite potential to create. It can be likened to what cosmologists call "eternal inflation," the infinite bubbling potential from which they believe the universe arose before the Big Bang. The second, Hokhmah, is the bursting through of the universe from the realm of pure potential to actual physical existence, which, Mr. Primack says, is like the initial blinding instant of the Big Bang itself. The third, Binah, is the female womb in which creation expands, which he sees as analogous to the unfolding of space, time and matter out of the Big Bang.
But Andrei Linde, a Stanford University physicist who developed the theory of eternal inflation, does not see any similarity between his theory and monotheistic beliefs. "According to eternal inflation, there is not just one universe but many different universes," he said, "with different laws of physics operating in each of them. New universes are coming into being all the time, hence the name eternal inflation." Mr. Linde warns against any superficial religious interpretation of this theory but suggests that it might be paralleled to the polytheism of Indian religions.
Given that all the scientists study the same universe with the same set of mathematical laws, how do they explain their various religious positions? The English physicist John Barrow from Sussex University said the fuzziness of cosmology might be an explanation. "Cosmology is a peculiar science because it is so close to many unanswerable questions," he said, so it is not always clear what the science is telling us. "The evidence is open to multiple interpretations."
Sometimes it verges on theology. "Theological tradition often informs the development of science," Mr. Barrow said.
 
Translating Traditions
 Mr. Linde said, "When scientists start their work they are subconsciously influenced by their cultural traditions."
The central idea of modern cosmology -- that there must be one set of laws describing everything -- comes from the monotheistic tradition, he said.
Modern cosmology has even incorporated ideas about the Judeo-Christian God, said Edward Harrison, an astrophysicist with the University of Massachusetts.
"Astronomers often don't appreciate how the definitions and properties ascribed to God were eventually translated into properties of the universe," he said. "Take, for example, the idea that God is everywhere and occupies no point." This became the notion that the universe is the same everywhere and has no center, known as the cosmological principle.
One point on which almost everyone at the gathering agreed was that cosmology does not necessarily bump humanity from its exalted position in the cosmos. Bruno Guiderdoni, a Muslim astrophysicist from the Institute of Astrophysics of Paris, argued that cosmology is "teaching us that we are at the top of a huge cosmic building." The universe of man has to be old (and hence enormous) because it needs time to have synthesized all the elements that make up human bodies -- carbon, nitrogen and so on.
 
The Integrity of Nature
 The Jesuit astronomer William Stoeger of the Vatican Observatory Research Group at the University of Arizona at Tucson said that since scientists now know the atoms of human bodies were forged in the stars, modern cosmology shows how humans are woven into the entire cosmic network. Science, he said, also reinforces the Thomist theological tradition of the "functional integrity of nature." Scientists now know, for instance, that if the law of gravity was even slightly stronger or weaker, planets could not form in stable orbits around stars. Life could not exist -- at least not human life.
But is there really a functional integrity to the universe? While this idea is inherent in Judeo-Christianity, Mr. Linde challenged it as another monotheistic interpretation of the scientific evidence. "In a polytheistic culture," he said, "they may not think this way at all."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Searching the heavens for clues. The philosopher Maimonides is believed to have studied the world's oldest known Old Testament. A page shown at left. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR THEOLOGY AND THE NATURAL SCIENCES (BERKELEY) UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR THEOLOGY AND THE NATURAL SCIENCES (BERKELEY) UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES; SPACE; ASTRONOMY AND ASTROPHYSICS RELIGION (97%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (92%); ASTROPHYSICS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); PHYSICS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); 

PERSON: WERTHEIM, MARGARET

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



148 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Scared Straight;
The Wisdom of Children Who Have Known Too Much

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

 BODY:
RAHMEL MILLER still hears an occasional gunshot at night from his apartment building in Harlem. And there are still fistfights after school among his fellow fourth graders at P.S. 194 on West 144th Street.
But Rahmel, who is nine years old, says he feels a lot safer than his older brother did when he was starting high school only a few years ago, at the height of the epidemic of violence touched off by the advent of crack cocaine and the guns and gangs that followed. Rahmel doesn't feel the need to carry a gun, he doesn't aspire to be a drug dealer and when he leaves for school in the morning, his mother doesn't kiss him good-bye as if it was going to be the last time, as she did with his brother. 
 These are small but significant signs of how life has changed for young people in Harlem and in other inner cities across much of the nation as the record levels of murder and violence have begun to recede. The latest figures from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, released last week, showed that serious crime fell again in 1996, for the fifth straight year, with murders declining sharply to their lowest level since the late 1960's.
Equally important, Rahmel's story may also be an important part of the answer to a mystery that has confounded criminologists, law enforcement officials and politicians: What has been driving the crime rate down? Different experts have their own favorite explanations, many reflecting society's decreasing toleration of lawbreaking: innovative police tactics, more criminals in prison, tougher gun control laws.
Other specialists point to the baby boom's aging out of its prime years for crime. Some have begun to wonder if the improving economy, with all its new jobs, may have helped -- though criminologists have long doubted that there is any connection between employment and crime rates.
But on the streets, young people offer another theory, an explanation backed by social workers, probation officers and psychiatrists who work with juveniles from troubled families in poor neighborhoods. They believe there has been a shift in attitudes among the young people themselves.
 
Once a Thug
 "People are getting smarter," said Salahadeen Betts, a 20-year-old neighbor of Rahmel's on 144th Street. "It's no more doing things on a whim. Before, people would say, I want to sell drugs, because it was the cool thing to do.
"Now people are thinking and planning, they are more educated about guns and drugs," said Mr. Betts, who said he had been shot at and had been in jail, and that his high school teachers thought he was a "thug."
Precisely what has brought about this change is a subject of debate among the teen-agers and the people who work with them.
For Mr. Betts, the turning point came when a close friend was shot and killed on a street corner, "Right in front of me," while playing dice.
"Me not getting shot meant something," said Mr. Betts. "Maybe somebody had to die for me to learn." He is now a college student and a volunteer in an after-school program at P.S. 194 run by the Rheedlen Centers for Children and Families, a nonprofit agency that offers services to poor children in Harlem.
Interviews with a dozen other students and volunteers at the Rheedlen Centers program at P.S. 194 showed similar experiences. Almost all had seen someone shot, and all had a close relative or friend who has been incarcerated.
In Boston, Bill Stewart, a probation officer, said he also saw the effect on children who had seen violence: "They saw what was happening and were witnesses to it. It was too unpleasant. They remember their mothers crying and their older brothers not coming home, for no reason, and they don't want to be a part of it."
And it isn't just the youngest who have recoiled from the gun culture. "Guns and violence are much less socially acceptable than they were a few years ago," said Dr. Carl Bell, a psychiatrist and a former gang member himself who is now chief executive officer of the Community Mental Health Council, a nonprofit agency on the South Side of Chicago.
 
A Parent Problem
 Dr. Bell sees this change daily in the children who are sent to his clinic, most of them victims of abuse whose parents are on drugs. "These kids are real clear that drug addiction is not a good thing and that the violence that goes along with it in the family is not a good thing," Dr. Bell said. "They will sit there ard tell you they want to be a drug addiction counselor or a policeman, to correct the problem."
In New York, although Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and former Police Commissioner William J. Bratton have credited their introduction of aggressive stop-and-frisk police tactics for much of the city's stunning decline in violent crime, the young people at P.S. 194 bitterly disagree.
"How come when the violence goes down, it's because of the police, and when it goes up, it's us?" asked Mr. Betts.
"I don't think the cops have done a thing to lower crime," he added, except to stop young black men without cause. Every one of the dozen young people interviewed knew of someone who had been stopped by the police -- unfairly, they thought -- in recent months.
Milton Bright, an 18-year-old high school student, said he was recently stopped by police officers as he was coming out of a park with a straw in his mouth. "They said I was smoking weed," said Mr. Bright. "It was awfully long weed."
The young people did acknowledge, however, that the new police emphasis on arresting juveniles found with handguns and making criminal cases for gun possession has deterred many teen-agers from continuing to carry guns. "The first time I had a gun, I had a .32 in my sweatpants, it was so easy to see I was crazy," said James Bellamy, a 24-year-old college student. Now, people he knows are much more cautious: "They keep their guns at home. They don't want to be arrested."
The young people and the experts do agree on one factor that has reduced shootings -- the stabilization of the drug market. When crack was first introduced in 1986, the old heroin distribution channels broke down. "Everyone was selling crack, even the kids, each doing their own thing," Mr. Bellamy said. "That led to a lot of conflict, with guys saying, 'You standing on my corner,' and shooting each other."
Now, Mr. Betts said, "the heads," or big dealers, are all older, in their 30's, and they are more organized. For these dealers, he said, "it's like a regular business, with employees, and they invest their profits in stores and beauty parlors and support their wives and children."
Another important difference, for the young people, is the introduction of after-school programs and greater adult attention to their problems as neighborhoods belatedly tried to respond to the increase in violence. "Five years ago, to be a man, you had to have a gun," said Treston Lambert, a 21-year-old student at Baruch College. "None of my friends believed they could finish high school or go to college."
 
Just Fistfights
 "Now there are alternatives," said Mr. Lambert, like the Rheedlen Centers program at P.S. 194, which has 500 students, ages 6 to 22, in after-school classes.
Geoffrey Canada, the president of the Rheedlen Centers, said the younger children today "do not have as much direct involvement with handguns" as their older siblings did a few years ago. They have heard shots fired, he said, but haven't seen a gun themselves.
"For these younger kids, violence is very much just a matter of fistfights," a return to the more familiar pattern of 15 years ago, Mr. Canada said. "Then, I considered fistfights a terrible thing, but now it is almost refreshing."
Still, some of the young people themselves worry that in a few years a new generation of teen-agers, not knowing the lessons of the last few years, will revert to greater violence. "It's coming back," said Mr. Betts. "The little kids I work with have no family values."
Candice Whitehead, a 10-year-old at P.S. 194, loves books but does not like her school because of all the fights. She is a cheerleader, and at a recent basketball game, the cheerleaders from another elementary school "called us sluts," Candice said. That led to some grabbing and punching.
"When you are at school," she said, "you're supposed to be learning, so you can get a fantastic job."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At 145th Street and Eighth Avenue in Harlem, life seems less threatening than it was a few years ago. From left, Candice Whitehead, Moses Rosaro and Rahmel Miller. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; URBAN AREAS; PUBLIC OPINION; VIOLENCE; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC SHOOTINGS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (87%); MURDER (87%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); GUN CONTROL (75%); FAMILY (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); CITIES (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); COCAINE (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); PROBATION (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



149 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Zaire's Fall Jolts Neighboring Angola's Frail Peace

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: LUANDA, Angola, June 3

 BODY:
In an important spillover effect of the war in Zaire, Government troops in neighboring Angola have attacked territory controlled by their longtime rebel enemies, who lost their most important backer when Mobutu Sese Seko, the Zairian dictator, was defeated.
Military officials and diplomats say the Angolan Government, which signed a peace treaty with the rebels in 1994, has launched offensives south of the town of Dundo deep in the country's diamond territory. 
 Government officials say they have simply been trying to patrol their border against armed militias and soldiers loyal to Mr. Mobutu who are trying to escape the former Zaire, now known as Congo.
But Western diplomats and United Nations officials say the fighting has been taking place south of Dundo in remote mining areas rather than on the Angola-Congo border. These areas -- largely stretches of savanna but threaded with diamond-rich riverbeds -- have been producing income for Angola's rebels, the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, known as Unita.
In recent days, United Nations officials say, planeloads of diesel fuel, rations and ammunition have arrived in the area. They report having seen tanks and artillery guns passing by and heard the sounds of mortar shells. There have also been reports of more than 100 wounded Government soldiers, and displaced villagers reportedly have begun to arrive by the thousands in surrounding villages and towns.
Since the Government and the former rebels are supposed to be observing a peace agreement, the Government's actions have raised questions about whether it intends an all-out assault on the country's diamond areas. The aim of such a move would be to crush Unita once and for all.
The attacks have set off a frenzy of diplomatic activity, with United Nations officials and Western diplomats traveling between President Jose Eduardo dos Santos in the capital and the Unita leader, Jonas Savimbi, in the southern town of Bailundo, trying to avoid a total breakdown of the peace agreement.
"We are trying to convince the Government not to get cocky," said one official close to the talks, who requested anonymity. "It's important for them to show restraint now."
The last 32 months have been Angola's longest period of stability in more than two decades. The country, which has enough oil, diamonds and rich farmland to be wealthy, plunged into a civil war almost immediately after independence was won from Portugal in 1975. Unita, part anti-Communist force, part the personality cult of the forceful Mr. Savimbi, was supported by the United States and South Africa. Soviet arms and Cuban fighters were aligned with Mr. dos Santos and his Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola.
After the cold war ended and the sponsors withdrew, the two sides signed a peace pact in 1991. But when Mr. dos Santos won an election, Mr. Savimbi went back to war. This time battles were even fiercer and were fought in the cities as well. Angolan industry was destroyed.
Since November 1994, the Government and the rebels have been involved in a new peace effort. But it has been marked by delays and skirmishes. Although some steps have been taken to preserve the peace, the country has been in a kind of stalemate, with the Government in control of oil-producing areas and most cities, and Unita in control of diamond areas and much of the countryside. Most roads are impassable, and except for the capital, Luanda, there is little evidence of economic improvement.
United Nations officials say that the peace accord has been a success. There are few battles. Some 70,000 Unita soldiers have been sent to quartering sites, where they are disarmed and wait to receive tools and other provisions so they can return to civilian life. And in April, after many delays, Unita finally began taking part in the coalition Government that the peace treaty calls for. It sent 70 members to take their seats in Parliament. Eleven Unita leaders became Cabinet ministers or deputy ministers, and nine Unita generals have been absorbed into the Government army, as have 11,000 Unita troops.
The peaceful transfer of administrative authority over some Unita territories has begun, and it progressed last week even as the Government attacked.
But some analysts say these are still largely paper accomplishments. No one believes that Unita sent its best soldiers into the quartering sites, and only 34,000 weapons were collected, many unusable, from the 71,000 troops, 26,000 of whom then disappeared from the quartering sites.
Unita soldiers supported Mr. Mobutu's troops in their fight for Zaire, and thousands are believed to be in the neighboring country still, over Angola's northern border. Estimates on the strength of these forces vary widely, from 2,000 to 15,000.
Political analysts say that Unita troops caught off guard and still recovering from the Mobutu defeat may be particularly vulnerable right now. The Government may well be able to wrest the diamond territories from Unita by force. But the experts warn that such a move might not end the war. More than 40 percent of the population is believed to support Unita, and guerrilla and terrorist attacks might continue.
What is clear, however, is that the events next door have dealt a mighty blow to Mr. Savimbi, who for decades relied on Zaire as a haven and a conduit to smuggle diamonds out and bring weapons and food in. Some analysts say that before Mr. Mobutu was toppled, the two sides -- each with income and territory -- were negotiating peace on a more or less equal footing. Now the Government has an obvious advantage.
The head of the United Nations peacekeeping delegation in Luanda, Alioune Blondin Beye, said he hoped the shift might speed the process of peace along.
"The hope," he said, "is that Unita, knowing it has lost this asset, will take the political route."
But others fear the shift may force Unita to act in desperation or the Government to press its advantage.
"There is no question we are at a critical stage," said a diplomat who has lived in Africa for years, speaking on condition of anonymity. "There is certainly cause for concern."
It has long been recognized that Mr. Savimbi would be unlikely to give up the diamond areas without a fightand repeated efforts have been made to negotiate a pact that would continue to give Unita members revenue from the area even after they ceded control of it.
Mr. Savimbi has been offered diamond concessions, shares in several private mining operations and a share in the giant Government diamond authority, Endiama. But exactly how much of a share remains unresolved, with Mr. Savimbi holding out for more than the Government wants to give him.
Some officials see the attacks as a kind of saber rattling intended to persuade him to take the deal being offered. But others say the Government has grown impatient with Unita and plans to take advantage of its upper hand.
The rebels, generally press-savvy and accessible to reporters, have been oddly subdued in their public reaction to the attacks.
One official close to the peace process says Unita has expressed its concern but seems willing to overlook the attacks as long as they do not spread.
But some experts fear that the peace effort may be further complicated by a split within the rebel movement.
On May 30, a key negotiator for Unita, Isaias Samacuva, was badly beaten by a group of men shouting, "Traitor! Traitor!" This was widely interpreted as a warning from Mr. Savimbi to Mr. Samacuva and other Unita leaders who seem determined to pursue peace quickly.
United Nations relief workers were able to visit the Dundo area briefly last week and reported that about 2,500 refugees had entered the nearby town of Nzage. They described fierce fighting to the south. Several large mining enterprises function in the region, which operates in a kind of Wild West atmosphere. An array of armed scavengers roams the area, among them renegade generals and South African mercenaries.
In the last two weeks, however, some mining companies have closed. The diamond giant De Beers, for instance, has shut its office in Cafunfu in Unita-held territory.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite recent skirmishes, the United Nations says the Angolan peace accord has been a success. A United Nations soldier guarded a site in the central highlands from which rebel troops are being demobilized. (Joao Silva/Sygma, for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Dundo, Angola: Government troops have attacked rebel positions south of Dundo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ANGOLA (99%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL UNION FOR THE TOTAL INDEPENDENCE OF ANGOLA UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL UNION FOR THE TOTAL INDEPENDENCE OF ANGOLA UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANGOLA; CONGO (FORMERLY ZAIRE); ANGOLA (99%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); COLD WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); MINES & MINING (69%); DIESEL FUEL (67%); 

PERSON: DALEY, SUZANNE; MOBUTU SESE SEKO MOBUTU SESE SEKO (92%); JONAS MALHEIRO SAVIMBI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



150 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Towns in Washington Bringing Back Poetry in Street Names

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, June 6

 BODY:
For drivers in rural western Washington, there once was a charm to traveling on a road with a name, not a number. Rolling down Rainwater Road beat driving 19th Avenue Northeast. A trip down French Creek Grange Road was more idyllic than the same drive on 167th Avenue Southeast.
Those old names, and many others like them, were changed in the late 1970's to numbers to make it easier for emergency workers to find houses on a grid system anchored by the north-south freeway, Interstate 5. In the interest of quicker ambulances and Cartesian simplicity, officials in suburban areas around here erased the poetry and history from the maps. Fidelity Hall Road, Green Lantern Road, Picnic Road and Potato Road were among the names consigned to the archives. 
 Now, Thurston and Snohomish Counties, along with some towns, are trying to reclaim the names of their country roads. The counties are adding the historic names of some streets to their current designations, giving them two names, while the towns of Lake Stevens and Lacey are replacing some current street names with their former designations, to honor historic families and preserve a sense of small-town life.
Beneath the 36th Avenue Northeast sign in South Bay, Thurston County recently added "Ames-Huntley Road." The original name honors two families who ran the cedar mill and raised livestock.
Lake Stevens, in Snohomish County, plans to change 124th Avenue Northeast back to Main Street.
"We truly believe that Main Street identifies where the centers of towns are," said Mayor Jay Echols of Lake Stevens, population 5,100, and 60 miles northeast of Seattle. Mr. Echols said the change would help efforts to revitalize the downtown area.
In Snohomish County, about 150 roads go by both number and name. The numbers are in green and white, and the historic names are on brown and white signs.
Frank Jenkins, a real estate photographer who moved here from Ohio, derided a street-numbering system that he said took numbering to its illogical conclusion. He cited the former Kline Hill Road west of Issaquah, with each of its eight switchbacks dutifully numbered.
"In this world where everything is being homogenized, it's great to have local flavor," said Shanna Stevenson, a senior planner with Thurston County, which includes Olympia, the state capital.
The county historic commission felt too much was lost in the numbering and wanted to spur interest in local history by offering street signs to the public for $60. Under the program, if the residents of a street want its former name restored, they obtain permission from the county commissioners, then purchase the official signs from the historic commission.
The numbers still have their fans. Bill Hoffman, manager of transportation system planning for the Department of Transportation in King County, which includes Seattle, said: "With all these strange names, for an engineer like me, I go 'Aw, this is awful!' With Killarney Place or Baloney Whatever, cul de sacs and circular streets, finding our way around is really difficult."
But in an age of passwords, PIN's and credit card numbers, Mr. Jenkins finds such names more esthetically pleasing. He mused out loud whether he should start calling himself by his Social Security number. "There are plenty of Franks around," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH BAY BMW (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (STATE); THURSTON COUNTY (WASHINGTON); SNOHOMISH COUNTY (WASHINGTON); UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; NAMES, GEOGRAPHICAL COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); CITIES (88%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); HISTORY (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); SUBURBS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



151 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Old Animosities Aside, Americans Are Touring Iran

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: SHIRAZ, Iran

 BODY:
A truly extraordinary sound, one that had for years been unimaginable in this country, echoed from a corner of a popular restaurant in Shiraz during a recent lunch hour. A dozen American tourists were talking excitedly about the sights they had seen that day.
When their Iranian guide realized that a foreign newspaper reporter was also on the premises, he became almost apoplectic with fear and anger. 
 "We can have no mention of this tour in the press," he said. "The conversation is over. Go away and forget this, do you understand?"
But as he was speaking, several members of the group gaily called out comments.
"Write that this is a fantastic place to visit!" said one. "Write that we're having an amazing trip!" suggested another. A third added: "The people here are wonderful to us. We haven't heard a single negative word."
Afterward, a pained tour operator accompanying the group sought to explain his Iranian colleague's agitation.
He said that this was the first American tour group to enter Iran in years, perhaps since the 1979 Islamic revolution, and that the Iranian guides he had hired were very nervous, fearing reprisals from their Government if any news about the visit leaked out.
The next evening, though, the owner of the American travel agency that had arranged the tour called to say that she had checked with the Iranian authorities, and that they had no objection to publicity. It would harm no one, she said, to report that American tourists are now welcome in Iran.
Still, the guides' concern was not surprising in a country that has had such a troubled relationship with the United States. During the recent presidential election campaign here, Iran's supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, pledged that no matter who was elected, Iran would continue to "stand against America."
The United States was a principal supporter of the late Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi, who was overthrown and forced to flee in 1979 after a series of protests led by Islamic clerics. Revolutionary militants later stormed the United States Embassy in Teheran and held American diplomats hostage in an extended drama that produced intense anti-Iranian sentiment in the United States.
More recently, the United States has imposed economic sanctions on Iran that have had a measurable though not overwhelmingly negative effect on the country's economic development.
Officials in Washington say that the measures are justified because the Iranian Government supports international terrorism, seeks to subvert nearby states and is arming itself in ways banned by international treaties.
The State Department has issued a warning asserting that travel in Iran "remains dangerous because of the generally anti-American atmosphere and Iranian hostility to the U.S. Government." It added that, since there is no United States Embassy in Iran, travelers cannot count on the "protective services" that consular officers provide in other countries.
In May, the United States announced that it was imposing sanctions on two Chinese companies it said were helping Iran produce chemical weapons. Iran rejected the assertion, which one newspaper called "the latest of U.S. intrigues against Iran."
Despite those serious problems between the Governments, though, Iranians seem remarkably friendly to the few American who visit here. They sometimes ask, as a shopkeeper in the sacred city of Qum did recently, "Why is Clinton so hard with us?"
But American correspondents who traveled through the country covering the presidential election campaign last month were greeted with smiles and warm welcomes.
There are still a few anti-American murals on walls here, like one in Teheran that shows bombs falling from the stripes in an American flag and bears the slogan "Down With the U.S.A."
But they are balanced by spray-painted graffiti like one in Isfahan that says, "I Like U.S.A."
Many of the sites that were jammed with foreign tourists in pre-revolutionary days are now almost empty, with only occasional groups of European and Japanese tourists mixing with the local residents. This is due in part to the discomfort many foreigners still feel toward Iran, which is viewed in many quarters as a rogue state, and in part to the Government's ambivalent attitude toward tourism.
Some officials here see tourism as an ideal way to earn hard currency and expose foreigners to a gentler side of Iran. But radicals believe that it opens the country to corrupting Western influences, gives hostile intelligence services an opportunity for espionage, and emphasizes aspects of pre-Islamic Persian history toward which they are less than enthusiastic.
"They don't like anything that has to do with kings," said an Iranian guide at Persepolis, a magnificent archeological site from which a royal dynasty ruled this region 2,500 years ago. "In fact, they don't like promoting anything that isn't Muslim."
In August the Iranian Government announced that it would begin issuing visas to foreign tourists. Soon afterward, Janet Moore, who owns and operates Distant Horizons, a travel agency based in Long Beach, Calif., came here for a series of meetings with Government officials. She left with a promise that she could begin bringing tourists here in 1997.
"We listed Iran in our catalog, saying that we would have one departure in May and one in October, each limited to 15 people," Ms. Moore said. "The tours were filled within 24 hours after we issued our catalog. We expanded to offer six tours instead of two, and they're all full."
Each tour lasts 18 days and is accompanied by a foreign specialist on Persian or Muslim culture. Destinations include Persepolis and the nearby city of Shiraz, the lush Caspian coast, the holy city of Mashhad and Isfahan, where some of the world's most spectacularly colorful mosques are to be seen.
"The first thing people asked when they called was: 'How can you be doing this? Isn't it illegal?' " Ms. Moore said. "The answer is that the United States does have a trade embargo against Iran, but it does not include travel."
"The Iranian people have been incredibly welcoming," she said. "When we were at the gate of the shrine in Mashhad, which is the holiest city in Iran, people were crowding around us and saying, 'Welcome, welcome, we're glad you're here.' Women were coming up and kissing the women in our group. It's quite amazing considering the state of relations between the two countries."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iran has been issuing tourist visas since August, and even Americans have responded. Iranian women toured the Persepolis archeological site. (Staton R. Winter for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Shiraz, Iran: The new American tours of Iran include Shiraz and Persepolis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN (58%); 

CITY: SHIRAZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN (58%); SHIRAZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); RELIGION (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); TOUR OPERATORS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TRAVEL AGENTS (76%); WRITERS (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); TERRORISM (65%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (65%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (61%); ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN ALI KHAMENEI (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



152 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Conflicting Views Put Republicans in a Bind on Cutting Taxes

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7

 BODY:
As it sets out to enact the first big Federal tax cuts since 1981, the Republican majority in Congress is struggling to reconcile the conflicting demands of its two most influential factions.
The social conservatives want to slash taxes for families, and the economic conservatives argue that the party's top priority should be to stimulate more investment by cutting capital gains taxes. 
 Their dueling priorities, which have long defined the battle for the party's ideological soul, will clearly be on display in the coming week as the Congressional tax committees begin drafting legislation to carry out the $135 billion tax reduction included in the bipartisan balanced budget agreement.
The agreement won formal Congressional approval on Thursday.
Republican leaders defended the $135 billion package as the best they could get from President Clinton and Democrats in Congress and as a welcome antidote to a series of tax increases that started in 1982 and continued through 1993 as the nation's economic focus turned to narrowing the Federal budget deficit.
But the Republican leaders acknowledged that the package would not be big enough to accommodate the tax-cutting demands from all the party's constituencies, not to mention those from the Clinton Administration.
"It's putting a large square peg into a small round hole," said Senator William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who was an architect of the tax cut in 1981 and is now chairman of the Senate Finance Committee. "It isn't going to be easy."
The intramural Republican tension will play out against a background of more traditional partisan squabbling over the makeup of the tax cut. Many Democrats in Congress are insisting that the tax legislation not skew the cuts to favor the wealthy at the expense of the poor and working classes.
Liberal Democrats are considering proposals that would largely limit breaks in the capital gains tax to the sale of small businesses and farms, arguing that a broad-based cut would be nothing more than a sop to investors who have reaped big gains in the red-hot stock market.
The Administration is aiming its firepower not at capital gains or a per-child tax credit, but at preserving its proposal for $35 billion in tax breaks for college education. Although the balanced budget agreement calls for a package of college tax breaks "consistent" with those backed by Mr. Clinton, the proposal faces strong opposition from Republicans and is dogged by a notable lack of support from Congressional Democrats.
Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, is in a particularly difficult position. To come up with the full $135 billion allocated to the tax cut, the budget accord requires him to find $50 billion in new revenue to help pay for it.
Although he is willing to go along with an extension of a tax on airline tickets that could raise up to $35 billion, he has rejected nearly all other revenue-increasing proposals as thinly disguised tax increases. His lone big alternative -- eliminating a tax break for producers of ethanol -- has been rejected by Speaker Newt Gingrich as politically impossible.
As a result, Republicans face the possibility of having to scale back the tax cut to $125 billion, a level that would make meeting all the pent-up tax-cutting demands from within the party that much harder.
In one sign of how Republicans will deal with the bind, Mr. Archer said today that his proposal would limit the per-child credit to children 17 and under, compared with 18 in an earlier proposal by Senate Republicans and under a Republican bill vetoed by President Clinton two years ago.
Nowhere will the tradeoffs for Republicans be more difficult than in balancing the call for a big family tax credit, the top goal of the religious right and other social conservatives who have provided much of the growth in the party's electoral base over the last 20 years, against calls for a deep reduction in the capital gains tax, the primary objective of the Wall Street wing and the supply-side economists who reshaped the party's thinking in the early 80's.
The social conservatives have been pressing for a $500 credit for each child younger than 18 for families with incomes up to $110,000. The proposal would cost $105 billion over five years, or more than three-quarters of the sum available for tax cuts.
For the "pro-growth" economic wing, the goal is cutting the top rate for capital gains, to 19.8 percent from its current 28 percent, while allowing investors to factor out the effects of inflation in calculating increases in the value of stocks, bonds, real estate and other assets. Such a change would cost an additional $30 billion or so over five years.
Together, the child credit and the capital gains cut would take up nearly the entire tax cut. But in addition to Mr. Clinton's insistence on $35 billion for college tax breaks, Republicans have pledged other tax cuts, including a reduction in inheritance taxes and an expansion of tax-free deposits or withdrawals from Individual Retirement Accounts.
Over all, the Republicans are $100 billion short of what they need to meet all the tax-cutting demands over five years.
Most Republicans in Congress pledge fealty to both the social and economic conservatives, and there is no open rift between the camps on Capitol Hill. Still, although groups like the House members who were first elected in 1994 are adamant about passing the child credit, many Republicans on the tax-writing committees acknowledge privately that there is little long-term benefit to the economy in the proposal.
But they said the political appeal of the proposal was so strong -- and the interest groups backing it so powerful -- that there is no gain to them in opposing it.
Mr. Clinton has long backed a scaled-down version of the child credit, which is also supported by traditional Democratic constituencies like organized labor.
Republicans said they were quite likely in the end to scale back the child credit and the capital gains cut more or less equally in an effort to insure that neither camp felt slighted. But the Republicans said the continuing jockeying for advantage would help shape the party's long-term priorities.
"This is incredibly important for the Republican Party," said Gary Bauer, director of the Family Research Council, a powerful conservative lobbying group that champions the child credit.
"Somewhere along the line, the party has got to decide whether it believes American wealth is essentially made up of things -- machinery, stock and all the rest -- or whether American wealth is essentially human capital, its people," Mr. Bauer said. "I believe it's human capital, and I believe the party of Lincoln and Reagan ought to be taking the lead on that argument."
Mr. Bauer said that he would be willing to compromise by lowering the income ceiling for families' eligibility but that he would otherwise continue to press for as much as possible to be spent on the credit.
Economic conservatives argue that the child tax credit has no economic justification, because it simply rewards people for having children. They say that reducing the capital gains rate would spur savings and investment, promoting growth and prosperity by improving productivity and creating jobs.
"My argument would be that you need capital gains tax relief for economic growth and a healthy social environment," said Mark A. Bloomfield, president of the American Council on Capital Formation, a business-backed lobbying group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION TAX LAW (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); APPROVALS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



153 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-21
 
U.S. Sees Breakthrough On Refugees in Congo
A special envoy sent by President Clinton said he won a breakthrough from President Laurent Kabila, who agreed to let the United Nations investigate reports of massacres of Hutu refugees in areas of the Congo controlled by Mr. Kabila's forces. The envoy, Bill Richardson, said a team would start work July 7. Mr. Kabila denied that his troops were guilty of misconduct. 1
 

 
AIDS Spotlights Infant Formula
For decades, mothers in poor countries have been urged to breast-feed their babies to protect the infants' health. But now, countless babies are getting the AIDS virus through breast milk, causing a number of researchers to advocate infant formula -- a product whose misuse in developing countries with poor sanitation was once blamed by opponents for killing a million babies a year. 1
 
Angolan Disrupted Anew
After the war in Zaire, Government troops in Angola have attacked valuable territory held by longtime rebel enemies. Zaire's fallen dictator had backed the rebels. 3
 
Aborigine Program Assailed
Over decades Australia forcibly removed perhaps 100,000 Aboriginal children from their families. Critics now say the program was "genocidal," causing a political firestorm. 18
 
U.S. Tourists Rediscover Iran
American tourists are beginning to appear after a long absence in Iran. They still see a few anti-American murals, but those are balanced by spray-painted graffiti like one in Isfahan that says "I Like U.S.A." 18
 
NATIONAL 22-40
 
General Expected to Stop His Quest for Top Position
Gen. Joseph W. Ralston, who has admitted adultery, is expected to withdraw his name from consideration for Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Pentagon officials said. General Ralston, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, acknowledged to the Secretary of Defense earlier this week that he had had an affair 13 years ago, while separated from his wife. 1
 
Cheating on the Web
Many educators are increasingly alarmed about the spread of dozens of Internet sites that help students cheat by offering them term papers that they can pass off as their own work. 1
 
 
G.O.P. Split on Tax Cuts
Conflicts within the Republican Party will clearly be on display in the coming week as the Congressional tax committees begin drafting legislation to carry out the $135 billion tax reduction included in the bipartisan balanced budget agreement. Social conservatives want to cut taxes for families, while economic conservatives seek a reduction in the capital gains tax. 36
 
Caution on Human Clones
An ethics commission charged with recommending actions on human cloning to President Clinton called for a legislative ban on attempts to clone people. Such a ban would restrain private groups that get no Federal financing for cloning research. The Government has a moratorium in place now to ban human clones, but that affects only researchers supported by Federal money. The moratorium began on March 4. 22
 
NEW YORK/REGION 41-51
 
Monitoring Parole Of Sex Offenders
The first line of defense for communities in which paroled sex offenders are living is made of parole officers like Corey Burke. He monitors 25 rapists and child abusers in Manhattan south of 14th Street, trying to make sure they stay within strict rules. 41
 
Cleaning Union: One Tough Boss
For two years, Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union has waged a high-profile campaign to persuade three banks to employ only union members to clean their New York City branches. But the 70 cleaners of the union's own SoHo headquarters were required to sign away all union protections. 43
 
OBITUARIES 52-53
 
Weddings 58
 
Television 52

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ANGOLA (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ANGOLA (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BREASTFEEDING (90%); INFANT FORMULA (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HUMAN CLONING (89%); BIOETHICS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); CLONING (88%); TAX RELIEF (87%); MISCONDUCT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); SCHOOL CHEATING (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); PAINTING (76%); ETHICS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); AIDS & HIV (71%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (70%); VIRUSES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



154 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Liberty, Equality, Bon Appetit

BYLINE: By Diane Johnson; Diane Johnson, who divides her time between Paris and San Francisco, is the author of "Le Divorce."

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
The French paradox used to refer to the way French people eat delicious high-cholesterol food yet stay thin and have fewer heart attacks, while Americans glumly pick at healthful carbs and keep getting fatter. After last Sunday's elections, "French paradox" could refer to French theories of economics. The new Socialist Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin, promises to address the future by retaining the indulgent social policies of the "past," and to reduce the deficit by shortening the workweek to 35 hours and raising the minimum wage.
All this drives Americans mad, of course. Remember how people used to mutter about high suicide rates in Sweden's welfare state, puritanically implying cause and effect? Americans are always being told it is inevitable that we move on to the mean, lean, downsized world of the future, with the unfit dropping by the way. 
 But the defeat of John Major's Government in Britain and Jacques Chirac's conservative coalition in France came when voters were given a choice, often very specific, between an American economic model and conception of society and what seemed the rather old-fashioned lefty social protections people were used to. Their answer was "No" to American-style capitalism, and to the violent, deteriorating societies they think it produces. Is there a message here for us?
One reason we are confused by the paradoxical refusal of the French to subscribe to what we have felt to be an inevitable economic model is that we have allowed our economics to be tangled up with our (Judeo-Protestant?) ideas of morality. We are a self-righteous, moralistic nation. It's "right" to work hard. Gain is "good." The idle do not "deserve" handouts. We are never pragmatic, and often adopt social policies that are neither efficient nor humane because, given a choice, we would rather be right than safe or comfortable.
The French don't seem to have this moralism problem. They are good at managing paradox. Maybe it comes from their form of rather self-indulgent Roman Catholicism, which allows them to confess and continue, and pays little attention to restrictive rules about divorce or contraception, for example, but does seem to take seriously notions of humanity and brotherhood.
And beyond, or in spite of, religion, they seem to have the idea that life should be pleasant. Everyone should have five or six weeks of vacation. Babies stay in the hospital for a week or more to give mother and child a good start. Working mothers have day care. Early retirement for people who work at hard jobs (and those who don't) is supported -- despite inconvenient strikes by the people who are asking to quit at age 50 or 55 with generous pensions.
A Jospin supporter was quoted during a campaign rally as saying, "people have a right to a little Utopianism nowadays," meaning they've earned it after the hardships of the Government's feeble attempts at belt-tightening. Those efforts were never convincing, and never explained. Will the French eventually have, as we say, to pay the piper?
Certain things about France may not suit us. A French citizen accepts a certain measure of conformity to achieve social harmony. Diversity is not particularly admired -- they attempt to be inclusive by treating each person, whether from Mali or Morocco, as French.
We, in our fashion, can jeer at utopianism, but the French have managed their high-cholesterol utopia rather well up to now, as their superb infrastructure of trains and metros, their Vuittons and Chanels, their sumptuous museums and low crime rate attest. We could do well to look at their successes instead of, Protestant nation that we are, gloomily contemplating hell.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Philippe Lardy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (94%); SWEDEN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (94%); SWEDEN (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CHOLESTEROL (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); CHILDREN (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); TRENDS (69%); RELIGION (69%); WORKING MOTHERS (68%); EARLY RETIREMENT (62%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); SUICIDE (55%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIANE JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



155 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Timor Rebels Widen Attacks on Indonesia Rule

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: DILI, Indonesia, June 7

 BODY:
A truck carrying 26 policemen and soldiers braked ahead of a bend on a lonely highway. Guerrillas in the bushes threw a grenade and opened gunfire, killing 17 of them.
The ambush was the climax of a week of rebel attacks that seemed to signal a new phase in the secessionist campaign of East Timor. 
 For more than 20 years, a small band of separatists has fought Indonesian rule. Usually they stayed in the rugged mountains of the interior, taking shots at passing army patrols or committing sabotage.
But the cat-and-mouse tactics stopped in late May with a string of daring attacks that killed as many as 42 soldiers, police officers, civilians and separatists.
Some guerrillas stormed a remote military outpost. Others briefly overran a police station in Dili, the provincial capital. After stabbing officers inside, they picked up police rifles and fired at soldiers before being killed or captured.
Polling stations were also burned before the parliamentary elections on May 29. As many as nine civilians accused of cooperating with the authorities were slain by rebels.
After six days of raids, the guerrillas then returned to the hills.
"This is a very blatant act of terrorism," Foreign Minister Ali Alatas said on Friday in Jakarta, the national capital. He maintains that most East Timorese want to be citizens of Indonesia, which has poured millions of dollars into economic development after long neglect by Portuguese colonialists.
The police said they had arrested 130 suspects after foreign journalists were barred from the province this week. Human rights groups voiced fears that the army would inflict heavy reprisals on civilians.
Military officials maintained that all suspects were being well treated. They and the Foreign Minister concede that rights abuses have occurred in the past but argue that such cases often have been exaggerated by opponents of Indonesian rule.
On Friday, Mr. Alatas announced that his country had canceled a deal to buy nine F-16 fighter jets from the United States after repeated condemnation of Indonesia's human rights record in Congress.
Until the latest wave of attacks, the military maintained that only 80 separatist fighters operated in the hills. Supporters now say there are 10 times that many.
One opponent of Indonesian rule is Bishop Carlos Ximenes Belo, who shared the 1996 Nobel Peace Prize for speaking out on behalf of East Timor's majority Roman Catholic population. About 90 percent of the rest of Indonesia is Muslim.
The Bishop has charged the Indonesian authorities with torture, beatings, arbitrary arrests and political disappearances of Timorese.
Jose Ramos-Horta, an exiled separatist leader who was awarded the peace prize with Bishop Belo, said the guerrilla attacks, particularly on civilians viewed as collaborators, underscored the need for peace talks.
Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations plans to convene talks this month between Mr. Alatas and Portugal's Foreign Minister, Jaime Gama. The two sides have often met before with no result.

GRAPHIC: Map showing the location of Dili, Indonesia: Attacks by anti-Indonesia rebels reached Dili, East Timor's capital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (98%); TIMOR-LESTE (95%); PORTUGAL (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; EAST TIMOR; INDONESIA (98%); TIMOR-LESTE (95%); PORTUGAL (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ARMIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (87%); AWARDS & PRIZES (84%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); TORTURE (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



156 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: New Housing Is Approved For Brooklyn

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON 

 BODY:
In an effort to help reduce both an acute housing shortage and long-running tensions between Hispanic and Hasidic residents of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, the Giuliani administration has approved a $25 million plan to generate scores of new housing units in the area.
Under the plan, 82 affordable two-family houses would be built in the Hispanic part of the neighborhood, while Hasidic residents would be allowed to convert old manufacturing buildings into condominiums. 
 The plan, which Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani could announce as early as today, would seek to end a stalemate on the future of housing in the overcrowded, often emotionally volatile neighborhood. It also has political benefits for the Mayor in an election year, perhaps enhancing his efforts to win support from Hispanic voters and solidifying his standing among the politically potent Hasidim.
Construction of the new houses is to begin on land the city has taken as part of an urban renewal effort. The plan designates Los Sures, a Latino neighborhood organization, as the sole sponsor of the project, and will seek to allow residents with incomes as low as $20,000 to buy the houses. The plan calls for a $5 million capital investment, and $15 million or more in loans and other subsidies.
The zoning revisions amount to a major achievement for the Hasidim, who are desperate for housing and whose forays into traditionally Latino sections of the neighborhood have provoked concern and protests. The plan would allow the Hasidim to develop as many as 1,600 market-rate condominiums in old manufacturing sites along Flushing Avenue and in a portion of the neighborhood known as the Broadway Triangle.
As part of the plan, the Mayor will also announce a $3 million effort to expand day care for Latino residents, many of whom are being moved into workfare programs for welfare recipients. City Hall has committed to build a day care center in the Southside section of Williamsburg. The center, which will serve as many as 180 children, will be run by Nuestros Ninos, a highly regarded day care provider in Southside.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ;LOS SURES (ORGN)

ORGANIZATION: ;LOS SURES (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; WILLIAMSBURG (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; JEWS; HASIDISM; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; ZONING; CONDOMINIUMS RELIGION (95%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); ZONING (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CITIES (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); VOTERS & VOTING (54%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



157 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Splitting the Fiscal Pie
The issue of tax cuts is dividing Republicans. Social conservatives want to reduce taxes for families, while economic conservatives want a lower capital gains tax. Page 36.
 
A Break in the Clouds
Since the conviction in the bombing of the Federal Building, people are saying it may be time for Oklahoma City to turn loose of its collective sadness. Page 22. 

For Aborigines, No Healing
An Australian rights panel set off a political firestorm by urging reparations for thousands of Aboriginal children removed from their families as late as the 1970's. Page A18.
 
A Surprise in Paris
Iva Majoli of Croatia served up a 6-4, 6-2 upset of Martina Hingis in the women's final of the French Open. SportsSunday, section 8.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); CROATIA (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); CROATIA (79%); FRANCE (72%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CONSERVATISM (91%); TAX LAW (90%); FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



158 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1632 words

HEADLINE: For Main Suspect in Teacher's Slaying, an Unfocused Life, Marked by Crime

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
When their lives first intersected at a high school in the Bronx four years ago, Jonathan M. Levin was a graduate student working as a substitute English teacher and Corey Arthur was a restless 15-year-old in his class, a marijuana-smoking rapper who had committed a robbery and was sliding into deeper trouble.
Over the 1993-94 school year, the young man was a chronic truant. By spring, his arrests had begun -- for heroin possession in April, for cocaine possession in June and July. By September, he had been convicted, sentenced to one to three years and, instead of being imprisoned, was sent to an upstate boot camp for young first offenders. 
 During the next seven months at the Lakeview Shock Incarceration Facility near Brocton, N.Y., he faced a hard discipline he had never known -- exhausting 16-hour days, razor wire fences, bugles before dawn, exercises and forced marches under bellowing drill instructors, as well as drug treatment and group therapy.
He emerged in the spring of 1995, a 17-year-old with an apparent resolve to straighten out his life. Though expelled from William Howard Taft High School for his felony conviction, he earned an equivalency diploma and enrolled in a remedial program at Bronx Community College. But the dream quickly faded: he dropped out after a semester, unable to pay tuition, and began to drift again.
Acquaintances said he became an aspiring rapper, styling himself "Big C," and said he sometimes performed in Manhattan clubs. But there is no record that he had any regular work. His family in the Bronx rarely saw him after he moved in with a girlfriend in Brooklyn last winter, and he spent his days hanging out in Harlem and Bedford-Stuyvesant, sidewalk-rapping, playing pickup basketball, sometimes getting high with friends.
Kabar Allah, 32, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, said that several times in the last year he had smoked marijuana with Mr. Arthur, and that Mr. Arthur had spoken of mugging people.
"The only thing he talked about was getting money -- any way he could get money," Mr. Allah said. "He always wanted to have money but never wanted to get a job. His M.O. was to stick black people up or whoever he can."
While the last four years had been a roller coaster for Mr. Arthur, Jonathan Levin, the 31-year-old son of Gerald M. Levin, chairman and chief executive of Time Warner, had achieved many of his goals. He had earned a master's degree at New York University, become a full-time teacher at Taft and won the respect of scores of students, for whom he was a down-to-earth mentor who understood their problems and gave them dinners, outings and kindness.
"He was more like a friend than a teacher," said Henry Bautista, 19, a Taft senior who was in Mr. Levin's English class in the 1994-95 school year. He recalled that Mr. Levin brought a radio to class to play rap music, rapped himself and talked knowledgeably about sports and other subjects of interest to students, but rarely about himself.
It was unclear yesterday what relationship, if any, Mr. Levin and Mr. Arthur had in the classroom or beyond the year in which they were teacher and student. Mr. Levin's willingness to help troubled students may have brought them into proximity, and Mr. Arthur's mother recalled having met Mr. Levin once.
Somehow, in ways and for reasons that were still unknown yesterday, Mr. Arthur's life intersected again recently with that of his former English teacher. And last Friday, the police believe, Mr. Arthur, now 19, called Mr. Levin and went to his small apartment at 205 Columbus Avenue, near 69th Street. There was no forced entry, suggesting that Mr. Levin admitted his visitor.
In the cluttered apartment, investigators said, Mr. Levin was bound with duct tape, tortured with a knife to get his bank card number and killed with a single shot to the head. The bank card was used to take $800 from the victim's bank account at a nearby automatic teller machine about the time of the murder. A surveillance camera picture was too fuzzy to identify the person who withdrew the money.
But later, the investigators said, Mr. Arthur became the focus of suspicion: his fingerprints were found on the duct tape used to bind the victim, and Mr. Arthur had tried to use a credit card that had been stolen from Mr. Levin.
With his picture on file -- a prominent scar high on the forehead -- Mr. Arthur became the object of one of the city's most intense manhunts of recent years, with stakeouts at seven locations he frequented and teams of detectives talking to scores of people who might know his whereabouts. He was taken into custody yesterday in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
Mr. Arthur's family -- his mother, Penny Bostick, and his half-siblings, Christopher, 13, and Crystal, 5 -- had no comment. On Thursday, Mrs. Bostick said that her son knew Mr. Levin and that she had met the teacher once. She admitted that her son had been in "teen-age kind of trouble," but said she believed he was not capable of torture and murder.
Neighbors at 800 Grand Concourse, a Bronx garden-apartment cooperative where the family has lived since 1993 and where Mr. Arthur lived until moving to Brooklyn about six months ago, concurred with the mother, calling him a polite youth who sometimes bought burgers and fries for homeless people in the area.
"I don't think Corey's capable of doing something like that," a 35-year-old neighbor who identified himself only as Jimmy said before Mr. Arthur's arrest. "They're treating him like he's already guilty. They shouldn't jump to any conclusions."
Corey Arthur, or Arthur Corey as he sometimes called himself, was born in New York on Dec. 18, 1977. Little is known of his early life. A family friend said he was raised by his mother and a grandmother, but little could be learned about his father, who died about a month ago, or his stepfather. From 1988 to 1992, the family lived at 2 Arlington Avenue in Brooklyn, just south of the cemeteries of Cypress Hills.
The youth enrolled at Franklin K. Lane High School in Queens. His academic record was not available, but the investigation of his background revealed that in October 1992, when he was 14, he was taken into custody by the authorities and suspended from school for robbing a student. He was given juvenile offender status, and the case records were closed.
In July 1993, the family moved to the Grand Concourse in the Bronx. Mr. Arthur enrolled at Taft the following September and was assigned to courses that included Mr. Levin's English class. Although his academic record was not available, school officials said he was a chronic truant over the ensuing school year.
Acquaintances from his old neighborhood, near the Bronx Borough Hall, said Mr. Arthur regularly smoked marijuana, like many students at Taft, and was captivated by rap, not least because of a connection to a well-known promoter of rap, Sean (Puff Daddy) Combs, the chief executive of Bad Boy Entertainment. Mr. Arthur was said to be either a friend or a cousin.
By the end of the school year, the truant had begun to run afoul of the law in more serious ways. On April 28, 1994, he was arrested and charged with possession of seven glassine envelopes of heroin. On June 17, he was arrested for possessing 200 vials of crack cocaine, an amount sufficient to warrant a presumption under the law that he intended to sell them. On July 19, he was arrested on a cocaine possession charge.
In August, the three arrests were consolidated and he pleaded guilty to one count of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree, a Class B felony. Although sentenced to one to three years, he was allowed the option of going to the Lakeview boot camp.
He entered the camp on Sept. 7, 1994, and was released on parole on April 6, 1995. During that time, he was formally expelled from Taft because of his felony conviction.
But the rigors of the paramilitary life apparently instilled a resolve in Mr. Arthur to straighten out his life, for he quickly enrolled in a study program for dropouts and by June had taken and passed a test for a high school equivalency diploma.
In September, he enrolled at Bronx Community College, which is open to anyone with a high school diploma. He took remedial English and math, a required orientation and career development course, health studies and physical education. School records show that he left before the end of his first semester and owed part of his tuition.
On Nov. 28, while attending the community college, Mr. Arthur was arrested for jumping a turnstile at a subway station in the Bronx. He pleaded guilty to the misdemeanor in Bronx Criminal Court on Feb. 13, 1996, and was given a conditional discharge, meaning that the charge would be dropped if he stayed out of trouble for a year.
Out of school again and unemployed, Mr. Arthur spent his days on the streets of the Bronx, Bedford-Stuyvesant and Harlem, rapping and playing basketball, according to teen-agers who know him. Some said he used a connection with Sean Combs to get rap gigs at Manhattan nightclubs, including the Tunnel and the Latin Quarter. But lawyers for those clubs said there were no records of his employment.
Jamel Blackwell, 15, who said he played schoolyard basketball with Mr. Arthur, recalled an incident several months ago in which they were walking together near Yankee Stadium when another teen-ager tried to mug Mr. Arthur and steal his sneakers. He said Mr. Arthur fought the would-be mugger and drove him off.
Mike Gonzalez, 16, said Mr. Arthur got him a ticket to Black Expo, a rap festival, last October, and said he found it hard to believe such a person would commit a brutal murder.
"He was the quiet type, minding his own business," Mr. Gonzalez said. "He never bothered anybody."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Corey Arthur, the prime suspect in the killing of Jonathan M. Levin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER SPORTS (51%); TIME WARNER BOOKMARK (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CANNABIS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); FELONIES (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); RAP MUSIC (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); SENTENCING (75%); ARRESTS (71%); HEROIN (70%); COCAINE (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); BASKETBALL (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: ARTHUR, COREY; MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; LEVIN, JONATHAN M

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



159 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: On the Internet, Term Papers Are Hot Items

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
When Bill Clinton vowed that every 12-year-old in America would be able to log on to the Internet, he probably did not have in mind logging on to the Evil House of Cheat or Cheater.com to download term papers on "Hamlet," Crazy Horse or Mayan architecture.
But many educators are increasingly alarmed or furious about the spread of dozens of Web sites offering such illicit help. They include traditional term-paper mills and guerrilla operations set up by college students in their dormitories, altogether offering tens of thousands of term papers that can easily be downloaded and turned in by students as their own work. 
 It is not clear how many students actually submit, under their own names, papers that have been obtained from the Internet. But the spread of the term-paper sites highlights a problem that has many educators veering between optimism about the Internet, seeing it as a scholar's dream of access to unlimited information, and concern that it has become a slacker's paradise of free computer games, pornography and term papers.
"A lot of people download papers and just change the names," said Samantha Brenner, a 17-year-old junior at Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan. "There aren't a lot of original papers that get written anymore. I just think it's the latest way to be lazy."
Many students say that their peers are more likely to use the papers for ideas than to submit them outright and that the fear of getting caught makes the on-line papers more a diversion than an invitation to wide-scale plagiarism. But the flood of information to be used or abused at sites with hundreds of thousands of viewers explains the ambivalence many educators feel these days toward the ubiquity of the Internet in academic culture.
"Sometimes the Internet is the library and sometimes it's the mall, and though I love big metaphors, I haven't found one for the Web," said Tom Rocklin, director of the Center for Teaching at the University of Iowa, who has written a paper about the on-line term-paper sites. "It seems to be too many things at once to get into a metaphor.
"I know some faculty members think there's a real evil genie out there. I don't see a reason to panic, but it's definitely made something that's been out there in the past much easier to do."
It does not take an Internet wizard to find term papers on the net. Typing in "term papers" on any of the big search engines immediately brings up long lists of sites that sell or give away term papers or write them to order.
Whether it is "Post-Modern Ethnography," "Aphasia and the Acquisition of Syntax," "Theme and Image of Women in Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio and Rabelais" or "Prenatal Care: A Cost-Benefit Analysis," papers on almost any subject are available for free or for sale on the Internet.
Sales of term papers are not new. Companies who do research have advertised on campuses and in publications like Rolling Stone for years. And every university has stories of fraternity-house filing cabinets stuffed with term papers.
What is new is the number of places where papers are available, the ease with which they can be obtained and the often brazen ways that do-it-yourself Internet sites now flaunt the ability to cheat and plagiarize electronically.
Most established for-profit sites include elaborate disclaimers, saying that the information can be used for research purposes but not submitted as a student's own work, though purchasers often have other intentions. It is illegal in most states to sell papers with the expectation that they will be handed in as students' work.
But many less professional sites are far less circumspect.
"So what time is it?" the Cheat Factory site reads. "When is that assignment due? When did you get the assignment? Oh well, what can we say, check out our files and take whatever you wish!"
Salvatore Ciampa, a 21-year-old student at York University in Toronto, who set up his fledgling site and does not charge for papers, said he did not have time to put on his site all the papers coming his way and had no problem with students' choosing to use the papers as their own.
"I guess I just like the attention," said Mr. Ciampa, who said he was changing his major from economics to mass communication.
It is clear that at least some of the papers are finding their ways into classrooms as original papers.
Anthony Krier, a reference librarian at Franklin Pierce College in Rindge, N.H., said he had received more than 500 requests from teachers and deans, worried about plagiarism, for a list he had put together identifying about 50 Internet sites that offer term papers.
About 25 inquiries, he said, have come from teachers and professors who had already caught students using on-line papers under their own names. A handful of the requests for his list, Mr. Krier said, came from students, apparently seeking access to the sites for improper purposes.
"This seems to be snowballing," said Mr. Krier, who said that he now found twice as many sites as he did when he first looked in January.
Often, the commercial sites charge $6 to $10 a page. Compounding the problem is the number of papers that are posted on academic or personal home pages.
Dorian Berger, who just finished his freshman year at Harvard University, said he had posted a number of his papers on the Internet so they could be read by more people. He said it soon become clear that his site had become a favorite of students trawling for good reports to copy or lift material from.
"I am now getting E-mails from people from around the world asking for papers on every conceivable topic," Mr. Berger said, whose papers include "Confucianism and the Rise of Industrialism in East Asia" and "Darkness in Shakespeare's Macbeth." "I feel that I am some type of multinational cheating company when all I wanted to do was offer my papers as research information to people on the Internet."
While some educators are alarmed, many say the benefits of the Internet far outweigh the limitations.
Bruce Leland, an English professor who is director of writing at Western Illinois University, said the sites were a challenge to professors to do their jobs better. He said teachers were unlikely to be fooled if they tailored assignments to work done in class, monitored the students' progress -- from outline to completion -- and were alert to papers that were radical departures from a student's past work.
"I don't want this to be yet another reason for people to say, 'Yes, the Internet is something evil that's corrupting our youth,' " Professor Leland said. He added that many on-line papers were so bad that no one was likely to benefit from them.
"Everyone who is mortal has at least one flaw," begins one less-than-A-quality paper on "Macbeth." "Some are more serious than others. For example, some people have addictions to gambling, while other people can't remember to put the milk away after they use it. After a while, though, a person's flaws come back to haunt them. The tragedy 'Macbeth' is no exception to this."
Still, the term-paper sites are a reminder that the Internet is far more of a mixed blessing than it sometimes appears to politicians.
"If this is the information superhighway," said Mr. Berger, the Harvard student, "it's going through a lot of bad, bad neighborhoods."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Internet Access to Term Papers"
There has been an explosion of Web sites that distribute and, in some cases, sell term papers for legitimate or illegitimate use. The sites allow users to view and use other people's research. Some condone plagiarism and others condemn it. Here are two examples.
 
Virtually Free . . .
 
ACCESS -- Cheater allows complete access to its data base of reports after the user fills out a membership form. Each user is provided with at least one student term paper.
 
DOWNLOAD -- After establishing a password, users may search by subject category and download reports directly from the site.
 
. . . Or for a Price
 
ACCESS -- Termpapers-on-File also allows users to search its data base and even to view excerpts from reports.
 
DOWNLOAD -- To download, the user must first purchase the report for $8.95 per page. (pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); SCHOOL CHEATING (77%); PLAGIARISM (77%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (62%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM JEFFERSON 'BILL' CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



160 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 8; Page 2; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: ON HOCKEY;
A City's Spirit Roars Back With the Red Wings

BYLINE: By Joe Lapointe

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
In front of the City-County Building is an enormous statue officially called "The Spirit of Detroit" and colloquially known as "The Jolly Green Giant." These days, he wears a size 360 Red Wings hockey jersey with its emblem of a winged wheel.
The residents of Hockeytown wear smaller jerseys to pose in front of him for photographs. At his feet is a broom dyed red to symbolize the four-game sweep of the Stanley Cup finals, which ended last night with a 2-1 Red Wings victory over Philadelphia in Joe Louis Arena. 
 When Commissioner Gary Bettman presented the Stanley Cup to captain Steve Yzerman after the game, he made a short, pointed speech about the "mystique and tradition of the Detroit Red Wings."
"This is Hockeytown!" Bettman said.
After the ceremonial procession, the red-clad fans streamed out of the arena to begin a long night of celebration in the downtown district.
 Some headed toward the Spirit statue. All week long, it has been the focus of Detroit's hockey Woodstock atmosphere as the community celebrates its first drink from the cup since 1955.
From this spot on Friday afternoon, the fans could hear the music of a free rock concert across Jefferson Avenue at Woodward Avenue.
If they followed the sound past the big fist sculpture, the Joe Louis monument, to Hart Plaza, they could see and hear Mitch Ryder's band playing under the warm sunshine in the cool breeze off the Detroit River that separates the city from Canada.
Ryder, the lead singer of the Detroit Wheels in the 1960's, added a special number to his repertory of hits like "Devil With a Blue Dress On." The extra tune was the theme from "Rocky," the Sylvester Stallone film about a Philadelphia boxer.
"We want to make our Philadelphia guests feel welcome," Ryder told his cheering audience. "Nothing wrong with the Flyers. They're just in the wrong place at the wrong time."
Many Detroiters get a sense of civic self-esteem from their sports teams, although the moniker Hockeytown -- painted over center ice at the arena -- isn't yet as well known as Motor City or Motown.
"We tend to manifest our national image through our sports teams," Ryder said between sets. "Detroit is a working-class community. It's a one-trick pony. If it wasn't for the car industry, we wouldn't have the city. We'd still be fur trappers, speaking French."
That reference was a tribute to those who founded Detroit almost three centuries ago. The Wings are one of the National Hockey League's oldest teams, established during the Roaring 20's, when Henry Ford and other automobile pioneers were building a boom town. The current hockey success is just one example of a sports and municipal renaissance during a relatively flush economic cycle.
Construction of new stadiums for the Tigers and Lions, both downtown, is expected to begin this year. The Renaissance Center, an architectural monstrosity built on the riverfront 20 years ago, is being taken over by General Motors, which might give the place the focus and purpose it has lacked.
Although much of downtown and the central city remains blighted and abandoned, the unemployment rate is down, the crime rate is down, car sales are up and property values are rising.
In terms of hockey, the region is a mecca. Aside from the Wings, the Detroit area includes teams from two of the four major college leagues, a top team of the minor International Hockey League, two major junior teams from the Ontario Hockey League, a newly established permanent training facility for Team U.S.A.'s top junior players, two dozen local boys who have made it to the N.H.L. and a peculiar consciousness smuggled over the airwaves from neighboring Canada.
It can be heard on local sports-talk radio, which constantly plays a scratchy recording of the late Foster Hewitt greeting his radio listeners on "Hockey Night in Canada" with the words: "Hello, Canada and hockey fans in the United States and in Newfoundland and a special big hello to Canadian servicemen overseas."
The downside to the mood yesterday was anxiety over the inevitable celebration. When the Tigers won the World Series in 1984, the celebrators overturned and torched a police car outside the ball park, leaving a distinct, negative impression. When the Pistons won their second straight National Basketball Association championship in 1990, seven people were killed and many others were seriously injured.
Thirty years ago, five days of race-based rioting left 43 people dead and hundreds of buildings burned, creating a downward spiral that lasted for a generation.
Detroiters of a certain age, like Ryder, remember the mood here just before that riot: an upbeat city making Mustangs and muscle cars. Back then, the Wings were regularly in the cup finals and the Supremes and the Temptations were rolling hit after hit off Berry Gordy Jr.'s assembly line.
It was an optimistic place. Back then, as now, the motto on the city seal, carved into the wall behind "The Spirit of Detroit," read "Speramus Meliora" and "Resurget Cineribus." The words mean "We Hope for Better Things" and "It Shall Rise Again From the Ashes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sergei Federov hoisting the Stanley Cup, won by the Red Wings for the first time since 1955. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT RED WINGS (95%); DETROIT RED WINGS (94%); DETROIT RED WINGS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT RED WINGS (94%); DETROIT RED WINGS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); POP & ROCK (71%); MUSIC (71%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



161 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2771 words

HEADLINE: WEEKEND GETAWAYS;
Washington, for Grown-Ups

BYLINE: By JAN BENZEL; JAN BENZEL is the deputy editor of the Travel section.

 BODY:
THERE'S something dreamlike about returning as a visitor to a city in which you once lived: both you and the city are the same, but changed. I was feeling somewhat spectral on a recent spring weekend, driving into Washington, where, young and single, I'd had a permanent address.
I snapped out of it at the first traffic circle. When Pierre L'Enfant created a plan for the city in 1791, he envisioned a Federal showplace with grand avenues sweeping across the orderly perpendicular numbered and lettered streets. Circles would mark the big crossroads, where monuments could be erected as occasion arose. 
 Driver panic can also arise. Not to mention passenger panic, evident in my husband, Stu, who had lived there once, too, but who didn't remember enough to navigate. Still, Washington operates at a hospitable pace, and we soon found our way in and out of the counterclockwise swirls. And we instantly became tourists, brandishing maps and flipping through guidebooks. A rare weekend away was no time to be proud.
It was raining, but no matter; we'd done indoor-outdoor contingency planning. We were staying at the Four Seasons in Georgetown, where we could ditch the car. The building, planned originally as a Holiday Inn, is not as grand as downtown hotels like the Willard and the Hay-Adams, but it fit my requirements: a king-size bed and a health club. If the drizzle persisted, we could pace on the treadmills, swim in the lap pool and bake in the sauna. If the sun came out, we would run in Rock Creek Park or on the towpath along the C&O Canal. Although the Metro, Washington's clean, quiet, cathedral-like subway, does not stop in Georgetown, the museums and restaurants we wanted to visit were all a quick walk or cab ride away. With our small daughters bunking at their cousins' for the weekend, we'd have no one's shoes to tie but our own. All the sleep, art and exercise we could manage were tantalizingly within reach.
Before checking in, we stopped at the Kreeger Museum. Opened to the public in 1994, the museum is the former home of David Lloyd Kreeger, an insurance company lawyer and lover of the arts who had a big hand in making Washington a cultural capital. Among his passions were post-Impressionist and Expressionist paintings, sculpture and African art, and he persuaded Philip Johnson to design the house as a livable showcase for his collection. The domed house was finished in 1967.
Built of soft travertine stone and glass walls, it sits discreetly on Foxhall Road, west of Georgetown, in one of Washington's most elegant residential areas. We'd reserved spots on one of the two daily tours, and our guide told us that Mr. Kreeger had requested that the walls be covered with carpeting so he could pad around the house at night, rearranging his Monets and Picassos: the carpet wouldn't show the nail holes.
The collection includes some atypical works: a representational Mondrian, of a dying sunflower in shades of blue and peach; a Gauguin pastel of his children looking sad after he took off for Tahiti. A couple of traditional African figures, a man and woman, were supposedly intended to help spouses get along with each other. The art is mostly intimate, the kinds of things you'd want to have around the house. Rodin sculptures no more than a foot and a half high were scattered about; on one table was an endearing Brancusi, the bronze head of a sleeping child, whose weight you could imagine perfectly in the palm of your hand. A Calder floated in a foyer.
The dining room (Mrs. Kreeger's favorite) is lined with Monets, including a Giverny scene in deep blues, and we gazed through the glass wall at the sculpture court, populated with voluptuous pieces by Noguchi and Henry Moore, among others. Just below, raindrops rippled a turquoise swimming pool.
I had requested a room at the hotel with a view of Rock Creek Park, only to realize as we began to unpack that there was more parkway than park out the window, and an incessant hum of traffic. Could we possibly switch rooms? But of course.
We were whisked to Room 446, furnished with a yellow and blue pheasant-bedecked spread and curtains and reproduction armoire and writing table. The room wasn't big but pleasant and much quieter; it looked out over a courtyard. I was won over by the tiny book light on the bedside table, a marriage-preserving appliance for late-night readers like me. In the bathroom, thick terry robes hung on the door and a phone on the wall; a fresh orchid bloomed by the sink and the mirror turned out to be steamproof.
After tea and a scone (good but when the bill came to $12, I decided we'd be eating elsewhere for the weekend) in the greenery-filled terrace room, I headed out for a walk on the brick sidewalks of Georgetown, leaving Stu to plug in his laptop at the dataport in our room. The sun had emerged, as had a cheery Friday happy-hour crowd, which spilled out of the restaurants and bars along M Street and Wisconsin Avenue. I passed the pre-Revolutionary Old Stone House, a carpenter's home in Colonial days. Finished in 1766 and now a National Park site, it is flanked by a lovely garden and fronted with a white picket fence.
For dinner, we met our friend Jackie at Vidalia, a warm, lively downtown restaurant with an emphasis on American cooking and wines. Crab cakes, peppery lamb, asparagus wrapped in phyllo with a deliciously smoky prosciutto-flecked sauce and focaccia topped with carmelized onions were all terrific. The lemon chess pie, which Jackie wisely ordered, made me want to move back to Washington immediately.
Saturday dawned clear and cool. La Madeleine, a bake shop and restaurant a few doors down on M Street, with irresistible breads and great coffee, offered an inexpensive alternative to the hotel breakfast (we also discovered that there was good coffee and fruit free all day at the health club; I spotted others in the corridors who had fetched breakfasts there.).
A run on the bike path through Rock Creek Park led us to a back entrance of the National Zoo. Like many attractions in Washington, it is free, so you can drop in even if you've only got a few minutes. We went to pay our respects to Hsing-Hsing, one of the two giant pandas China gave the United States in 1972 after President Nixon's visit; their attempts to reproduce were followed with as much interest as those of Charles and Diana. Ling-Ling, his female companion, died a few years back, and so Hsing-Hsing roamed his sprawling compound alone, waiting for his bamboo breakfast. The California sea lions hadn't been fed yet either; one lazily amused himself, gliding upside down underwater, eyes closed.
Most fun were the orangutans, for whom a Seussian structure of posts and cables has been constructed from their habitat to an orangutan institute across the way called the Think Tank, where their communications skills are being studied. While zoogoers craned their necks, the hairy creatures climbed along the cables, big melon bellies hanging out.
A top-hatted doorman greeted us back at the Four Seasons. "Ah, you've been running!" he exclaimed, and opened a shiny brass compartment by his station. "Water?" he offered, producing two bottles. "A cool cloth?" He held out a small tray of rolled white washcloths. Just like home.
We had to hurry to get to the big Picasso show in the East Building of the National Gallery. We joined a no-elbow-room crowd in I. M. Pei's soaring pink Tennessee marble building, gathered for the survey of Picasso's accomplishments before he turned 26. The audio tour provided insulation from the other viewers and plenty of information about Picasso's studies, friends and lovers, and the work gave us an idea of how his skill, style and emotional depth developed. By the time he was 20, his friend Carles Casagemas had committed suicide, a loss reflected in his Blue Period paintings; a few galleries later, the more hopeful harlequins of the Rose Period begin to appear, from a time when Picasso reconnected with his friends and fell in love with the earthy Fernande Olivier.
We rested our eyes and museum-weary legs at Pesce, an unassuming restaurant and fish market near Dupont Circle. Tuna bruschetta was dotted with capers and drizzled with fine olive oil, just right for lunch, and the reasonable wine list had a good selection of French and Italian wines. Dessert was good too, especially a cocoa creme brulee. (I got only a taste, not having had the sense to order that one either.) We stopped at Kramerbooks & Afterwords, decades earlier possibly the first bookstore to have incorporated a cafe, and were glad to see that it still seemed to be thriving, showing off books by big-name Washingtonians like Robert Reich and Katharine Graham.
With rain threatening again, I passed up the rambling gardens at Dumbarton Oaks -- it was too late for the fabulous spring blooms anyway -- and poked my head into the 19th-century mansion. Philip Johnson had been here, too; he'd designed a wing for its pre-Columbian collection, rounded this time, but again with glass walls, giving the place more the feel of an arbor than a museum. In comparison, the music room in the mansion proper is wonderfully over the top, especially its wooden beamed ceiling elaborately painted to copy a 16th-century Loire Valley chateau.
I had only a few minutes left for what has always been my favorite Washington museum, the Phillips Collection. I sped past Renoir's "Luncheon of the Boating Party," Vuillards and Bonnards, Matisses and more Picassos, before the guards looked at their watches and pointed to the door.
For some live entertainment, we were counting on the Capitol Steps, six actors practicing take-no-prisoners political humor at Chelsea's, a packed supper club on the C&O Canal in Georgetown. (Members of the troupe have been performing in New York, but better to see them on their home turf.) The usual suspects came in for a sound drubbing in show tunes and pop hits with cannibalized lyrics: Bill and Hillary (channeling Eleanor Roosevelt and Gandhi) of course, Tipper and Al, Newt, Connie Chung, computer geeks, the N.R.A. and, casting their net internationally and beyond, Netanyahu, Yeltsin and life forms on Mars. The showstoppers, though, were "Lirty Dies," a couple of monologues by a fast-thinking silver-tongued guy who flips the first letters of his words around, making relatively sanitized accounts of sex scandals sound filthy enough to make Howard Stern blush. After hummus and kebabs at Bacchus, a Lebanese spot on a quiet street near Dupont Circle, we briefly considered heading to Adams-Morgan to hear some African music but decided we were too old to stay up any later.
Adams-Morgan, the area just north of Dupont Circle lined with clubs and small restaurants of various ethnicities, is lively in the daytime, too, with people who actually live there out walking and shopping or, in nice weather, sitting on stoops. We had a good, late all-American breakfast at Cashion's Eat Place, a funky-elegant space with a high, unfinished ceiling. I gave dessert one last try and was disappointed again: the berry crisp topped with homemade ice cream was too sweet and gooey, but Alberta Hunter on the sound system was some consolation. Besides, I'd had my dose of hedonism for the day: a rubdown at the fitness club with Art, a chatty masseur with a passion for Frisbee Golf, who did some skillful rearranging of my shoulder blades and relaxed the rest of me with a combination of Swedish and shiatsu maneuvers.
Time was running out, but we headed for one last stop at the recently opened Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial. Picnickers were on the mall, paddleboaters on the Tidal Basin, and after stopping to ask a couple of times we found the entrance, between the Tidal Basin and the Lincoln Memorial.
The photographs I'd seen of the memorial did not do it justice. Unlike the monuments to Jefferson, Lincoln and Washington, the F.D.R. Memorial doesn't announce itself in the Washington skyline. Low to the ground, it demands that you enter it.
That Sunday afternoon, hundreds of people were making their way through the series of outdoor spaces defined by red South Dakota granite walls, alive with cascading waterfalls and small pools. Open to the sky and dotted with shade trees, it is its own park. Four spaces, a guide was explaining to one group, represent Roosevelt's four terms in office. Words from his speeches are carved in bold letters in the stone.
Roosevelt's statue seems small, showing him sitting, draped in a cloak, an ordinary man with his dog Fala by his feet. A woman in a yellow sari posed with her son before the statue, standing solemn and proud. Around the corner was Eleanor, standing, with three tow-headed boys laughing and hanging on her arms. Two teen-age girls had shed their shoes and dabbled their feet in one of the several pools. On the last wall were words from F.D.R.'s 1941 State of the Union Address:
FREEDOM OF SPEECH
FREEDOM OF WORSHIP
FREEDOM FROM WANT
FREEDOM FROM FEAR.
We headed home, refreshed and inspired.
 
For weekend ambassadors in the nation's capital
 
Things to Do
The Capitol Steps, at Chelsea's, 1055 Thomas Jefferson Street, N.W., (202) 298-8222. Shows Fridays at 8, Saturdays at 7:30. Opens two hours before shows for dinner. Show, dinner, parking and tip is $50 a person; show only, $33.50 with $10 bar credit. No smoking in theater.
Dumbarton Oaks, 1703 32d Street, N.W., (202)339-6401. Gardens (31st and R Streets) open 2 to 6 P.M., except holidays and in inclement weather. $3, $2 for children and senior citizens; no pets or picnics. Collections open Tuesday through Sunday 2 to 5 P.M. $1 contribution suggested.
Kramerbooks & Afterwords, 1517 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., (202) 387-1462. Open Monday through Thursday, 7:30 A.M. to 1 A.M., round the clock Saturday and Sunday.
Kreeger Museum, 2401 Foxhall Road, N.W., (202) 338-3552. Reservations required; tours at 10:30 A.M. and 1:30 P.M. Tuesday through Saturday. No children under 12. Tours last about an hour and a half. $5 donation.
National Zoo, 3001 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., (202) 673-4800 or (202) 673-4717. May 1 through Sept. 15, grounds open 6 A.M. to 8 P.M., animal buildings 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Sept. 16 through April 30, open 6 A.M. to 6 P.M., buildings 10 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. Free.
Old Stone House, 3051 M Street, N.W., (202) 426-6851. Wednesday through Sunday, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Free.
Picasso: The Early Years, 1892-1906 runs through July 27 (it moves to the Boston Museum of Fine Arts in September) in the East Building of the National Gallery of Art, Constitution Avenue between Third and Fourth Streets, N.W., (202) 842-6713. Monday through Saturday 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., Sunday 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Passes, which are necessary on weekends and holidays, are available free in advance or day of visit in the East Building. Passes are also available at Ticketmaster locations for a service charge of $2 each or by phone, (800) 551-7328, for $2.75 plus $1.25 handling each.
Phillips Collection, 1600 21st Street, N.W., (202) 387-2151. Open 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Tuesday through Saturday, 10 A.M. to 8:30 P.M. Thursday, noon to 5 P.M. Sundays. Weekend admission: $6.50, $3.25 for 62 and older; weekday by donation.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial, West Potomac Park, between the Tidal Basin and the Potomac River. Park rangers available 8 A.M. to midnight. Further information is available at www.nps.gov/nacc.

Dining and Lodging
Bacchus, 1827 Jefferson Place, N.W. (between M and N Streets), (202) 785-0734. Open for lunch and dinner, except dinner only on Saturday and closed Sunday. Dinner with wine about $25 a person.
Cashion's Eat Place, 1819 Columbia Road, N.W. (between Biltmore and Mintwood Streets) (202) 797-1819. Dinner and Sunday brunch. Closed Mondays. Brunch about $15.
La Madeleine, 3000 M Street, N.W., (202) 337-6974. Open Sunday through Thursday 7 A.M. to 10 P.M., Friday and Saturday until 11 P.M. Breakfast $6 or less.
Pesce, 2016 P Street, N.W., (202) 466-3474. Lunch and dinner; dinner only on Sunday. Lunch, with wine, about $25.
Vidalia, 1990 M Street, N.W., (202) 659-1990. Lunch and dinner, but dinner only on weekends. Dinner, with wine, about $55.
Four Seasons, 2800 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., (202) 342-0444. Double rooms $345 to $390 weekdays. Weekend rates begin at $260. Through July 27, the hotel has a Picture Picasso package Friday through Sunday with rooms for $199, passes to the exhibition, 10 percent off food and beverage in the hotel, and 50 percent off a massage in the health club. J. B.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 15, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A listing last Sunday with an article about Washington misstated the weekend room rate at the Four Seasons Hotel in Georgetown. It is $260 a night through June 30, with or without the Picture Picasso museum package. The $199 rate for the package is in effect only from July 1 to 27.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The sculpture court at the Kreeger Museum includes a Jean Arp piece, "Torse Gerbe," foreground.; The Capitol Steps offer quintessentially Washington parodies at Chelsea's.; Visiting the National Zoo's orangutans is one of many free activities. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. 12); The Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial includes a statue of the President seated, by Neil Estern. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: HOLIDAY INN BAHRAIN (55%); HOLIDAY INN HARARE (55%); HOLIDAY INN MUSCAT (55%); HOLIDAY INN SOLOMONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); PAINTING (67%); RESTAURANTS (65%); 

PERSON: BENZEL, JAN

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



162 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3066 words

HEADLINE: A Special Issue: How The World Sees Us;
America the Inescapable

BYLINE: By Josef Joffe 

DATELINE: GERMANY

 BODY:
Something funny happened on the way down from the cold war.
 Not so long ago, young Europeans used to burn the American flag. Now they wear it -- like that big brash replica of Old Glory knit into a line of pricey Ralph Lauren sweaters. When hurling rocks at the local American cultural center, these kids used to sport Che Guevara on their chests; today it is "Tommy Hilfiger" and "DKNY." 
 Unconsciously, they might be making more than just a fashion statement -- like the mullah in Teheran who had just completed a two-hour tirade against "Am'rikah" in front of the former United States Embassy on the anniversary of the takeover. Grabbing a Western journalist by the arm, he smiled and said, "We don't really hate you Americans." Drawing close, the crowd that had just been screaming "Death to America" nodded vigorously. And the cleric pulled a pair of Ray-Bans out of his robes, as if to say, "Look, man, I'm cool, too."
 Even the European left, which cut its teeth on the anti-Vietnam and anti-nuke rallies of the 1970's and 1980's, has rediscovered America. Consider, for example, Britain's new Prime Minister, Tony Blair, whose minions were all over the 1996 Democratic convention in Chicago to learn how to run a Clinton-style campaign. A less-inspiring, but still-telling example: Neo-Nazi punks are more likely to taunt German burghers with the extended middle finger -- strictly an American import -- than with the stiff-arm Hitler salute.
 On the verge of the 21st century, the United States isn't just the "last remaining superpower." It is a continent-size "demonstration effect," which is a locution sociologists prefer to value-laden terms like "model." Why this comeback, considering that in decades past, the United States was rather a model to abhor? America stood for capitalism at its cruelest, social and racial injustice, economic failure and cultural decadence. And, of course, for ruthless imperialism masked by self-serving, moralizing cant.
 One explanation is the demise of the Soviet Union and the end of the cold war. While fighting in the trenches of bipolarity, Big Brother remained an unloved benefactor, like a rich but obnoxious relative you can't afford to cross. Washington was always demanding loathsome proofs of fealty from its allies. Don't finance this Soviet gas pipeline. Don't go to the Moscow Olympics. Punish the "evil empire." Take our nuclear missiles.
 Worse, the United States instilled angst. Fearing entrapment in quarrels not their own, Europeans liked to see themselves as hapless victims of American hauteur. If war broke out, Europe would turn into the "shooting gallery of the superpowers." Dependency bred resentment and then aggression -- the unconscious desire to discredit or vilify a troublesome patron who disturbed the peace while purporting to protect it. If the United States could be tainted as a cultural inferior and as the home of Cowboy Imperialism, then no loyalty was due -- that was the subliminal logic of cold-war anti-Americanism.
 Today's conflicts are but a pale copy of the cold-war years: a bit of Helms-Burton, a tit-for-tat on meat imports. Europe, indeed, much of the world, can stand back and take a more relaxed view of Mr. Big. Also, what is the countermodel? As long as the Soviet Union persisted, as long as a flawed dream was still married to great power, socialism served as a realistic utopia to hold up against the perversion of capitalism that was America. Now only North Korea and Cuba clutch the torch -- failed societies whose company even the faithful will not cherish.
 Of course, America was always No. 1, no matter how rich doomsayers like Paul Kennedy became with books like "The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers" 10 years ago. Kennedy and his epigones spawned a school of thought called Declinism. The British historian from Yale and co-declinists like David Calleo ("Beyond American Hegemony") and Walter Russell Mead ("Mortal Splendor") thought that America was like Hapsburg Spain of the 16th and 17th centuries: arrogant, overreaching, oblivious to the fact that military ambitions were outpacing economic resources.
 Apart from ignoring the numbers (Philip II's Spain and Louis XIV's France devoted more than 75 percent of spending to the military, while Washington allocated less than 30 percent), the Declinists fundamentally misunderstood American power. Hapsburg Spain was strong as long as it was rich. A key source of wealth was gold and silver from its Latin American possessions. When that dried up, Hapsburg's muscle shriveled.
 America's wealth is different; it comes not from silver mines but from production and, above all, from relentless adaptation and innovation. If steel falters, let's do microchips; if the Japanese grab the camera market, Hollywood will flood the world with movies. Unlike Hapsburg's, America's riches aren't dug from the ground; they roll out of labs, research outfits and universities. And that is an inexhaustible resource.
 But there is much more. Hapsburg et al. were like the Big Blue of yesterday, when it had a lock on mainframes and not much else. Hapsburg and France had big armies because they were rich and populous. But they were just as vulnerable to the competition as was I.B.M. when the PC age dawned. Britain, though much smaller, could throw many and diverse assets into the balance. It had the better fleets, and it enjoyed the great strategic advantage of insularity. It was backed up by a far-flung trading network, and tapped into the exponential growth unleashed by the Industrial Revolution. Finally, Britain could leverage superb diplomatic skills into alliances that proved the undoing of the Philips.
 With respect to the diversity of power, America is Britain cubed. Think of the United States as a gambler who can play simultaneously at each and every table that matters -- and with more chips than anybody else. Whichever heap you choose, America sits on top of it. It is the largest economy, the fastest-running job machine and, again, the world's biggest exporter; even the dollar, declining since the mid-80's, has been rising against its former twin-nemeses, the German mark and the Japanese yen.
 America's armed forces, though shrinking, are racing into the 21st century while the Russian Army is disintegrating and the Chinese are just beginning to modernize. The Persian Gulf war was a sneak preview, a duel between Saddam's huge but clumsy World War II army and Stormin' Norman's battalions practicing for World War IV. It was cruise missiles against bunkers, laser-guided bombs against dug-in tanks, satellites against spotter planes, radar-fooling bombers against antiaircraft guns, G.P.S. (Global Positioning System) against map and compass.
 While Europeans can't find the money for their "Eurofighter," a new combat plane that will be all-but-obsolete when it enters the inventory, the Pentagon has deployed stealth aircraft against which there is presently no defense. It is testing weapons that can knock out a tank at a hundred miles. Planners are playing with robotics and space-based weaponry as well as with spooky, nonlethal stuff that will immobilize enemy soldiers before they ever get to the FEBA (army-speak for "forward edge of battle").
 To bring it down from the sci-fi level, look at Bosnia. At the beginning, in 1992, the Europeans told the U.S.: "Hands off, this is our war." It was ended (for now) in 1995, when the U.S., grudgingly accepting the responsibility that comes with being No. 1, dispatched a handful of cruise missiles to Pale, the capital of the Bosnian Serbs. The Tomahawks swooped in silently and invisibly, reminding the Serbs' leader, Radovan Karadzic (and his patron in Belgrade, Slobodan Milosevic), that they were suddenly up against a different kind of opponent than the British and the French.
 In global diplomacy, nothing happens unless Washington shakes off its lethargy and grabs the helm. North Korea is above all an East Asian nuisance that should be dealt with by China, Russia and Japan. But only Washington can defang Pyongyang's nuclear ambitions. In the Middle East, the French never get past meddling; only Bill Clinton can knock heads when Israelis and Palestinians overreach.
 Culturally, America's clout is so overwhelming that its oldest ally, France, is once more building Maginot lines -- this time not against German panzers but against American movies and even words. You know you're on a roll when other governments threaten their own citizens with hefty fines for calling a lavage voiture a "car wash." Chances are that French deejays (sorry, make that disque tourneurs) might be fired for playing "Meat Loaf," unless they use the linguistically correct moniker Faux Filet on the French Parade de Frappe.
 The United States as No. 1 and soaring -- that was not supposed to happen. And it may not last. The history books say that Mr. Big always invites his own demise. Nos. 2, 3, 4 will gang up on him, form countervailing alliances and plot his downfall. That happened to Napoleon, as it happened to Louis XIV and the mighty Hapsburgs, to Hitler and to Stalin. Power begets superior counterpower; it's the oldest rule of world politics.
 For now, that rule does not operate. The French would like to take the Americans down a peg or two, but they have a hard time corralling the Germans, Brits and Italians. Actually, these were only too happy when Richard Holbrooke and the Navy's cruise missiles bludgeoned the Serbs to the negotiating table. The Russians and Chinese huddled in Moscow in April and came up with a "strategic partnership" against you know who -- somebody who wants to "push the world toward a unipolar order." It barely made the last page of the news section. What are they going to do? Will Boris Yeltsin go to Beijing for credits, computers and know-how? Will China risk its most important export market?
 There is something anachronistic about such textbook moves. It's like trying to surf the Web with a typewriter. In the old days, power grew out of the barrel of a gun; the more barrels (and men), the better. A nation became great by grabbing territory. By that measure -- population and size -- China, Russia and Canada should rule the roost. But they don't.
 There are two ways to crack this paradox. One is a traditional answer: Only the United States is a truly global power, with global interests and the global wherewithals for intervention. This is why everybody looks
 to Washington when it comes to chastening the Saddams and the Karadzics. But nasty as these fellows are, they do not define the essence, or the bulk, of 21st-century world politics.
 And hence the second, and new, answer. Unlike centuries past, when war was the great arbiter, today the most interesting types of power do not grow out of the barrel of a gun. As the Harvard political scientist Joseph S. Nye Jr., dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, put it, power has become "less coercive and less tangible." He coined the term "soft power" to contrast it with the traditional currency of clout.
The classic way was to force other nations to do what they did not want to do, ultimately by costly war. Today there is a much bigger payoff in "getting others to want what you want," and that has to do with "cultural attraction" and "ideology," with "agenda setting" and holding out big prizes for cooperation, like the vastness and sophistication of the American market. On that gaming table, China, Russia and Japan, even the West Europeans, cannot match the pile of chips held by the United States.
 Are people risking death on the high seas to get into China? How many are willing to go for an M.B.A. at Moscow U.? Imagine a roomful of 14-year-olds -- from Germany, Japan, Israel, Russia and Argentina. Obviously, they would all be wearing Levi's and baseball caps. But how would they relate to one another? They would communicate in English, though haltingly and with heavy accents. About what? The Fugees, Beavis and Butt-head, Ace Ventura, Michael Jordan. They would debate the merits of Nike versus Converse, of Chameleon versus Netscape. Sure, they would not discuss Herman Melville or George Gershwin, but neither would they compare notes on Dante or Thomas Mann. The point is that they would talk about icons and images "made in the U.S.A."
 One has to go back to the Roman Empire for a similar instance of cultural hegemony. Actually, there is no comparison. The cultural sway of Greece and Rome, of France in the age of Louis XIV and Napoleon, of Germany between 1871 and 1933 never reached much beyond the economic and educational elites of the Western world. But America's writ encircles the globe, penetrating all layers of society. Modern mass culture, for better or for worse, is American.
 Nor is it just a matter of McDonald's and MTV. Why would Helmut Kohl, Germany's chancellor-in-perpetuity, send his two sons to Harvard and M.I.T.? The answer is sad and simple. Heidelberg and the Humboldt University of Berlin no longer measure up, though German universities served as the model for the rest of the world in the late 19th century. When Europeans today bemoan the decline of their universities, they look across the Atlantic for ideas. European academics who want to demonstrate class have to publish in the standard-setting American journals. European intellectuals would rather place their articles in the New York Review of Books than in Commentaire (France) or Merkur (Germany) -- just as the hoi polloi would rather watch American movies.
 "The Discovery of America" is the title of a cover article in Capital, the German business monthly. Reporting on a survey of business leaders, the magazine writes: "80 percent say that the future belongs to the American system." The boss of the German Federation of Industry calls the American labor market -- with its flexibility and mobility -- "a model for Germany." Even beyond German boardrooms, words like "downsizing," "restructuring," and "shareholder value" have become household terms.
 The magazine Der Spiegel, a bastion of anti-Americanism in the heady 60's and 70's, writes admiringly about the "Jobwunder in Amerika." The leftish weekly Die Woche grudgingly praises America's work ethic and its willingness to let the markets call the shots. Why? "In 20 years, the U.S. has thus managed the greatest quantum-jump of the industrial age -- from manufacturing into the service and communication society." A lead story in the Swiss magazine Weltwoche proclaims: "America, you are better off." In the magazine Focus, the Labor Minister of Chancellor Kohl's home state writes a column titled: "What We Can Learn From America." Der Stern, another former America-basher, asks: "Is It Better to Study in America?" Subtract a few reflexive swipes and the answer is "yes."
 Why is it suddenly "America the Beautiful?" And how long will it last? Fashions change, Wall Street can go bust, Europe with its 12 percent unemployment rates will eventually restructure. Sometime in the next century, there will be a Russian resurgence, and China's double-digit growth rates will spawn a great military panoply. But it is far harder to foresee a turnaround in the fundamentals of American "soft power."
 China, Russia and Europe are strong in some areas and potentially mighty in others. But their cultures do not "radiate." They do not offer a universal allure -- values and ways of doing things that appeal to the rest of the world. Take Japan. Its consumer electronics have conquered the planet, and its banks are not far behind. O.K., throw in sushi too. But how many people want to dress and live like the Japanese, or send their children to Tokyo University?
 Sure, the United States dominates music and movies in part because American companies control the global distribution networks. But in the 1920's the Germans were the cinematographic pacesetters, as were the French and Italians in the 1950's and 1960's. India produces many more films than does Hollywood, but all the distribution channels in the world couldn't turn Indian movies into global blockbusters.
 One explanation is obvious. America has the world's most open culture, and therefore the world is most open to it. America keeps drawing the world's best and brightest, allowing them to rise to the top within one generation. That makes for a universalist culture with a universal appeal. But there is more. We live in an "American age," meaning that American values and arrangements are most closely in tune with the new Zeitgeist.
 Whether it is the "modes of production" (as Marx called it) or modes of organizing our private lives, traditions are being cracked right and left. The trend is toward individualization, nonhierarchical cooperation and breathless innovation. Creativity rather than order rules. These values have always defined American culture, but today they are shaping Europe and Asia willy-nilly because otherwise they could not keep up.
 In the information age, you cannot afford telephone monopolies that, if they could, would still sell black rotary phones connected by mechanical relays and copper wires. When the premium is on innovation, traditions are out -- and so are production methods that force individuals into the straitjacket of top-down management. Why did Big Mac blanket the world? Not just because culinary abomination is convenient, cheap and timesaving. It also promises a bit of individual freedom, as certified by an angry Hamburg parent: "My kids don't have to be at the dinner table anymore when they can stay out and wolf down a couple of Quarter Pounders."
 Rome and France had to conquer territory before they could conquer minds. America's culture is unique; its power comes from pull, not from push. Even the French will acknowledge that nobody ever used a gun to make people learn English (the American-accented version, of course) or watch Hollywood's latest.
 The great British philosopher John Locke, theorizing about the "state of nature," wrote, "In the beginning all the world was America." Today he might muse, "All the world is becoming like America." That is a nightmare for the guardians of traditional culture round the world. But how can they stop McDonald's and Microsoft, Harvard and Hollywood? By adapting, competing and improving. But isn't that the American way, too?

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Global Reach" -- 1.New Delhi. (Baldev/Sygma); 2.Beijing. (Mark Leong/Matrix); 3.Chechnya. (Andy Hernandez/Gamma Liaison); 4.Morocco. (Mike Goldberg/Network); 5.Yangon, Myanmar. (Andy Hernandez/Gamma Liaison); 6.Bangkok, Thailand. (Jack Kurtz/Impact); 7.The Autobahn. (Annette Hauschild/Ostkreuz); 8.Ho Chi Minh City. (John Lehmann/Asia Times/M. Photo); 9.Tripoli, Libya. (Alexie Duclos/Gamma Liaison); 10.Cairo. (Josef Polleross/Anzenberger); 11.Madrid. (Dusko Despotovic/Sygma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (88%); MOROCCO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MYANMAR (79%); THAILAND (79%); VIETNAM (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (75%); INDIA (74%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (74%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (59%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (88%); MOROCCO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MYANMAR (79%); THAILAND (79%); VIETNAM (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (75%); INDIA (74%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (74%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (59%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (59%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); OLYMPICS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); RELIGION (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (54%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%); 

PERSON: JOFFE, JOSEF RALPH LAUREN (57%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



163 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: A Sense of Entitlement

BYLINE: By Judith Martin; Judith Martin, who writes the Miss Manners syndicated newspaper column, is also a novelist.

 BODY:

RAGE FOR FAME
 The Ascent of Clare Boothe Luce.
 By Sylvia Jukes Morris.
 Illustrated. 561 pp. New York:
 Random House. $30. 
 Reading Sylvia Jukes Morris's "Rage for Fame," the first of a projected two-volume biography of Clare Boothe Luce, is like being on confidential terms with someone who hates her boss. At first, you react with sympathy and astonishment to a barrage of anecdotes about the most selfish schemer who ever lived. But as the stories keep pouring forth without relief, you begin to notice that although some of them illustrate outrageous behavior, others could as easily be interpreted benignly. Finally, all that relentless hammering perversely tempts you to secretly switch your sympathies to the beleaguered villain.
Clare Boothe Luce may have possessed a sense of entitlement that is amazing even by today's standards, but she also had amazing accomplishments. Before she was 40 she had had several first-rate careers -- as managing editor and writer at the original Vanity Fair; as a successful playwright whose best work, "The Women," is still performed; and as a politician who, in her first electoral campaign in 1942, won a seat in the United States House of Representatives. Even when she dabbled in fields in which she did not reach the top -- as actress, athlete, foreign correspondent -- her achievements were impressive.
She was apparently also outspoken and unapologetic. It is she who, through her letters, diaries and old-age reminiscences to Ms. Morris, chiefly supplies the evidence that she was unusually ambitious, promiscuous, cynical and acquisitive. Working some of the same territory as Pamela Churchill Harriman (notably Randolph Churchill, a mere trifle to Luce, who had such other lovers as Bernard Baruch and Joseph Kennedy), she makes that heroine of recent biographies and obituaries seem bashful.
But looks and the love of powerful men cannot deliver the kind of success she kept winning. That took self-education and hard work. Born in 1903, the illegitimate daughter of a ludicrous beauty whose aspirations did not go beyond comfortable (and duplicitous) courtesanship, she pushed herself intellectually and drove herself physically long after acquiring fame and fortune several times over. Beneath this biography's censorious tone there are indications that she was passionate, funny, adventurous, original and ravenously interested in the changing world.
But Ms. Morris, the author of "Edith Kermit Roosevelt: Portrait of a First Lady," will hardly allow her new subject the smallest uncontaminated virtue. Having her girlhood friends as bridesmaids is interpreted as seeming "deliberately to have chosen the plainest and most garishly dressed attendants, to set off her own beauty." Keeping her bedroom neat "betrayed a compulsive, not to say precious tidiness." When she was struck by a sense of mortality at her mother's death and wrote an effusive love letter for her second husband, Henry Luce, to receive if she predeceased him, she was "again casting herself at the center of an imagined drama." Although she endangered her life by rushing to fighting fronts in both Europe and Asia, "her interest in war was not so much journalistic as voyeuristic." It must have been a crowd's ovation that made her realize that she would find "the giant arena she had sought since adolescence" in politics -- not her interest in political philosophy, economics and military strategy dating back to when she was probably the only member of New York's smart set who read The Congressional Record.
A typical analysis is this: "Throughout her life, Clare kept in contact with friends and acquaintances whose horizons were narrower than her own. She needed ego-boosters to support her queenly aspirations, or commiserate with her when her spirits were low. In March 1920, she visited old school friends in Illinois and later that spring had others to stay in Sound Beach, while she tried out, unsuccessfully, for the U.S. Olympic swimming team. Beguiled by her beauty, brains and life force, these acolytes were unaware that, given the opportunity, Clare preferred intellects equal if not superior to her own who could teach her about literature, politics and world affairs." Doesn't this mean simply that she was loyal to old friends, whom she visited and entertained, and interested in meeting stimulating new people?
This volume, which brings the story up to her election to Congress, covers only Luce's ascent; the next volume will presumably take her downhill. As with the boss-hating confidante, one can only hope that someday Ms. Morris will find more agreeable work.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clare Boothe Luce (second from right) with Albert Einstein and Thomas Mann (far right) at the opening of her play "Margin for Error" in Princeton, N.J., Oct. 14, 1939. (GEORGE KARGER FOR LIFE/FROM "RAGE FOR FAME")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RAGE FOR FAME: THE ASCENT OF CLARE BOOTHE LUCE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (55%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (55%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); LITERATURE (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: LUCE, CLARE BOOTHE; MARTIN, JUDITH; MORRIS, SYLVIA JUKES CLARE BOOTHE LUCE (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



164 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 100; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: LIVES;
An American in Turin

BYLINE: By Andrea Lee; Andrea Lee is an American writer living in Turin, Italy.

 BODY:
"They were the strong guys, who could do whatever they wanted," my husband said. "Like the G.I.'s, like Gary Cooper. They were rich. All of them were kings: newspaper kings, zipper kings. They ate ketchup and mustard, and they wore Stetson hats and ridiculous ties." He is Italian and grew up in Rome in the 1950's and was reminiscing about what he thought of Americans as a child, his words conveying a mixture of awe and mild hostility.
Talking with Italian friends, I realize that nearly a half-century later, the basic attitude remains. Only the focus is different. The view of American military might, worshipful after the war, predictably negative in the leftist 1970's and 80's, has settled into a shrugging tolerance. And Italians -- rich now themselves after the postwar economic boom -- no longer regard the United States with envious admiration. Envy of Americans nowadays centers on the idea of the United States as a leader in technological and artistic innovation and in personal freedom. Italian kids, like kids from Sao Paulo to Shanghai, are hooked on American popular culture, the epicenter of original cool. Mingled with this is an idea that young Americans are more independent of their families, freer to choose the direction of their careers and lives. This is a heady idea in Italy, which, beneath a veneer of modernity, remains a bastion of conservative Catholic culture where children live at home until their 30's. "Americans my age are much more individualistic," said a 25-year-old student who had visited Chicago on an exchange program. "But ... Americans don't have real families like ours." 
 There is always that "but," ushering in the cherished negative view of Americans as talented savages, lacking enough tradition to have even developed a proper language. (Many Italians believe that Americans speak "American," a kind of colonial patois as distinct from the Queen's English as Portuguese from Latin.) Added to this is a growing impression of Americans as violent. "I'd love to take a long automobile tour of the United States," a film director from Rome told me. "but I'm worried about all the crazy things you hear." Friends here have been surprised to find that the first time I saw a gun fired on the street was at a drugstore holdup in Milan.
What I find most curious in my Italian friends' view of America is their unshakable idea that the United States is ethnically uniform. This is especially surprising because Italians are the greatest regionalists in Europe. Yet I know that well-educated, well-traveled Italians still find it difficult to grasp the idea of Hispanic- or Asian-Americans. "Yes, I know she was born in the United States," a Milanese friend told me, speaking of a young third-generation Chinese-American brought up in Oregon. "but you can't say she's American."
In Italy, genuine Americans are supposed to be Middle Western WASP's. (They can also, in special cases, be inner-city blacks.) American religion is considered to be a vaguely fundamentalist Protestantism. To support this vision, sophisticated Italians make a leap of faith. New York, Miami, Los Angeles, they tell me, are not America. America, the real America, is a shopping mall in Missouri.
I've mellowed enough over the years to respond to such remarks with only a subtle smile. The fact is that these stereotypes have often stimulated me to reflect on my own ideas about America. What makes an American?
What, for that matter, makes an Italian? In 10 years, I've seen dramatic changes in the population here. With a huge recent influx of North and Central Africans, Asians and South Americans -- and now boatloads of Albanian refugees -- Italy is following the rest of Europe in becoming a society of many colors and religions: more like America. It's a process that has left Italian politicians and populace in a state of bemusement. As all the world knows, the Miss Italy elected last year was a young black woman born in the Dominican Republic, an event that evoked unseemly protests and set many Italians gazing wistfully back at the days when the most visible foreigners were those American zipper kings in their Stetsons.
Looking around these days, I can understand why my Italian friends cling to the fantasy of a monocultural America: in the midst of their own struggle with change, it's comforting to imagine that an ideal state of things exists somewhere overseas. And the evergreen stereotype of the vulgar American evokes a pleasant nostalgia for a more provincial past, when Italy was for Italians. Just the other day, my husband leafed through a Lands' End catalogue. "Look here," he said in a satisfied voice, "they still wear ridiculous ties!"

GRAPHIC: Drawing (ILLUSTRATION BY BOB HAMBLY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ITALY (92%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (52%); 

CITY: TURIN, ITALY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; UNITED STATES (96%); ITALY (92%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (52%); TURIN, ITALY (58%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE FAMILY (89%); LIBERALISM (74%); CONSERVATISM (71%); ASIAN AMERICANS (60%); FILM DIRECTORS (50%); 

PERSON: LEE, ANDREA

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997



165 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 87 words

HEADLINE: Build Rail Cars Here

 BODY:

To the Editor:
I was delighted to read that the Long Island Rail Road is placing modern double-decker cars on some of their routes ("L.I.R.R. Double-Deckers," letter, June 3). But I wonder why these trains are being purchased from Japan. 
 Here in Connecticut we have the skilled people (a lot of them unemployed) for building nuclear submarines and helicopters. I'm appalled that we can't use some of this potential to design and build the new trains locally.
 
JOEL L. ROSENBAUM
New Haven, June 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (69%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS TRAINS (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HELICOPTERS (52%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, JOEL L

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



166 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Cultural Clashes, Abroad or at Home

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:

EXILES
Three Short Novels
By Philip Caputo
353 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $25. 
 The title "Exiles" and the name Philip Caputo seem almost tautological. In his previous six books -- two of them memoirs, "A Rumor of War" and "Means of Escape"; four of them novels, "Horn of Africa," "DelCorso's Gallery," "Indian Country" and "Equation for Evil" -- Mr. Caputo has repeatedly explored with considerable skill the alienating effects that warfare in foreign countries, most hauntingly Vietnam, have had on Americans.
So it is predictable enough that two of the three short novels in "Exiles" are set abroad and focus on extreme cases of cultural conflict. In one of them, "Paradise," a white couple tries unsuccessfully to impose economic self-sufficiency on the black natives of a tiny island in the Torres Strait of Australia. In the other, "In the Forest of the Laughing Elephant," four American soldiers and "a hill tribesman" track a huge man-eating tiger in the jungles of Vietnam.
But what makes "Exiles" extraordinary is the lead story, "Standing In," which is set mainly on the Gold Coast of Connecticut and which concerns neither warfare nor foreigners. Here Mr. Caputo brings fresh subtlety to the psychology of exile. It is one of the most engaging works of fiction he has yet produced.
Both of the other novellas certainly seize your attention effectively enough. In the paradoxically titled "Paradise," a badly sunburned man washes up on Nettles Island in a rubber life raft, the apparent victim of a shipwreck. As the islanders nurse him back to health, his behavior begins to unsettle the delicate balance of power between the black natives and the white administrators who are trying to make the island's fishing business profitable.
Yet despite the story's steadily mounting tension, there is something predictable about the natives' outmaneuvering of the colonialists. We've read this story before. Mr. Caputo seems almost to be acknowledging as much by naming his shipwrecked character Barlow (an echo of Conrad's Marlow) and by parodying Conrad's narrative-within-a-narrative technique by making the sea story that Barlow tells a complete fabrication.
The novella "In the Forest of the Laughing Elephant" re-explores the conflict between civilization and nature in Vietnam. Lincoln Coombes, an American soldier struggling to overcome his secret fear of combat, sets out to prove his manhood by killing the tiger that has stolen into his encampment and made off with Valesquez, the company's mess sergeant, in its fangs. Witnessing the tiger's departure, Coombes felt "as if he were being brushed by a fur-covered pickup truck."
Han, the hill tribesman Coombes has taken along as his guide, advises him that the beast is a "Ghostiger" and therefore impossible to kill. But Coombes makes his men throw their wristwatches away so that they will lose all sense of time in their pursuit of this possibly mythical beast.
Again, as in "Paradise," the story builds powerfully, with Coombes's Ahab-like obsession threatening to destroy his entire squad. But it's hard to escape the feeling that this story has been told before. And even the slightly derivative mood is broken when Coombes, who wants to outsmart the tiger, has the following politically correct exchange with a member of his squad who wants to gun the animal down in a salvo of "auto crossfire":
"Sure," says Coombes sarcastically. "It's what we're all about."
"Who?"
"Us. Americans. We subdue the wild. We overcome. It's what we've been all about since Plymouth Rock."
Right. With the Puritans no doubt gunning down gigantic tigers for their Thanksgiving dinners.
It is only in the longer "Standing In" that Mr. Caputo's narrative achieves real psychological freshness. Here Dante Panetta, grieving for his recently deceased mother, is thrown from his sleeping berth when the train he is riding north from Florida to Connecticut for her funeral comes to a sudden stop in the middle of the night. Going from car to car in search of a conductor to explain the delay, Dante comes upon an older woman smoking a cigarette in the dark. They fall into conversation and discover the proximity of their homes in Connecticut and the vast social gulf between them: Dante is a barber who plays in a second-rate band at night; the woman, Greer Rhodes, is an old-line Yankee aristocrat who sells real estate to fill her time while her husband works as a stockbroker.
The train begins to move again. The two say good night and are about to part when Greer sees Dante's face in the light, and says, "Oh, my God." The next morning Greer and her husband, Julian, reveal to Dante that he appears to be the identical twin of their late son, Clay, who died in an accident while serving as a Naval pilot in the Persian Gulf war. The Rhodeses then offer Dante a lift from Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan to Connecticut. Grateful for relief from his loneliness, Dante accepts. Before long he will have given up his life in Florida and moved in with the Rhodeses to become a substitute son to Greer.
What makes "Standing In" come particularly alive is the combination of mutual emotional need and sexual attraction that draw Greer and Dante to each other. To further complicate matters, Clay turns out to have been homosexual and to have died under scandalous circumstances, facts that Greer has always rigidly denied. Dante's willingness to become a substitute son offers her a chance to practice further denial. But is Dante himself heterosexual? And even if he is, can he bear the pressure of being looked on as a parasite by the Rhodeses' snobbish friends?
Summed up so tersely, "Standing In" may sound like a soap-operatic parody of a story by John O'Hara or John P. Marquand. But Mr. Caputo's characters, for all their neediness and inclination to deceive, turn out to have depth and moral resonance. The choices that Dante finally has to make reflect the instability of the American social dynamic, which, in the perspective that Mr. Caputo lends it, can be seen as a kaleidoscope made up of nothing but exiles.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip Caputo (Stephen Ellis/Alfred A. Knopf)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: EXILES (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); VIET NAM (88%); AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); VIET NAM (88%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); BURN INJURIES (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; CAPUTO, PHILIP MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



167 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 26; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Machine Tool Orders Up 7.7% in April

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8

 BODY:
Orders for machine tools rose 7.7 percent in April from the month before, posting the fourth monthly increase in a five-month period, according to an industry survey.
Orders from American companies for domestic- and foreign-produced machine tools rose to an estimated $801 million in April from a revised figure of $744 million in March, a joint report from the Association for Manufacturing Technology and the American Machine Tool Distributor's Association said today. 
 Previously, the industry groups reported that estimated orders rose 9.3 percent in March to $721 million. Orders totaled an estimated $659 million in February.
For the year to date, estimated orders rose 22 percent, to $2.7 billion. Estimated April orders were 61 percent higher than the $497 million reported in April 1996.
"The significant growth in demand reflected in April orders may be an early indicator that Detroit is beginning to place orders with our industry again," said Albert W. Moore, president of the Association for Manufacturing Technology.
For several months this year, machine tool makers experienced weakening demand from the auto industry, one of their biggest customers.
Machine tools are used to shape and assemble metal in products ranging from diesel engines to dishwashers. Analysts watch their sales as a guide to industrial output, consumer demand and business investment.
Today's report is in line with a Commerce Department report on overall orders to United States factories for durable goods, a broader category than machine tool orders. In April, orders for big-ticket goods rose 1.4 percent, the Commerce Department said.
Actual machine tool orders rose 7.7 percent in April, to $584.51 million from a revised $542.66 million in March, the industry groups said.
April orders jumped 24.2 percent in the Midwest, which accounts for more than half of all orders. They rose 1 percent in the West, dropped 13.9 percent in the Northeast, and eased by 2 percent in the South.
Exports of machine tools by American manufacturers, which are counted separately from domestic orders, rose 1.4 percent, to $45.67 million in April from $45.03 million the previous month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: ASSN FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY; AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSN AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS.COM INC (58%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS EXPORT GROUP (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY STRATEGIES (57%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY (57%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INC (57%); AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSOCIATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSN FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY; AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSN AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSOCIATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDWEST USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES MACHINE TOOLS (95%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY WHOLESALERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



168 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA: PUBLISHING;
Newspaper owners proselytize business sense to their reporters and editors.

BYLINE: By Iver Peterson 

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to their marketing strategies, newspaper publishers are trying any number of ways to appeal to their readers. But on internal matters, publishers are showing a growing unanimity about marketing of a different kind -- campaigns aimed at getting their reporters and editors to accept the realities of the newspaper business these days.
For several decades after World War II, as newspapers grew rich in money and prestige, most reporters and editors thought that all they had to do was write and edit to the best of their abilities, and that it was up to "the money side" -- marketing, circulation and advertising -- to worry about where the profits would come from. After all, going into the 1960's, newspapers were read almost daily in more than 90 percent of the homes throughout the country. 
 Describing his early days as a reporter at The Charlotte Observer in North Carolina in the 1950's, James K. Batten, the former chairman of Knight-Ridder Inc. and a hero to many in the business, put it this way, in a 1989 speech at the University of California at Riverside:
"In all departments of too many dailies, we tended to take our customers pretty much for granted. Not consciously, in most cases, but you could see it in our reflexes. We prided ourselves on our ability to tell our critics to go to hell. We were, after all, 'the press,' beholden to no one."
Mr. Batten, who died two years ago, was not engaging in idle reminiscence. Competition for time and money means that fewer and fewer households now read a paper daily. With so many other media clamoring for their attention, readers are in no mood to be taken for granted, Mr. Batten said. "The days when we could do newspapering our way, and tell the world to go to hell if it didn't like the results, are gone forever," he continued in his 1989 speech.
Now, eight years later, publishers across the country are gearing up to the task of making their reporters and editors -- sensitive, creative and prickly in protecting their independence as they may be -- more alert to the cold facts of the newspaper business. And few publishers have been as blunt about promoting this task as John F. Oppedahl, publisher and chief executive of Phoenix Newspapers Inc., which publishes The Arizona Republic.
"Despite the fact that we distribute our consumer products in a remarkable number of homes in most markets," Mr. Oppedahl said in a speech to the International Newspaper Marketing Association in April, "many of the folks who work for newspapers are insular, insulated and inordinately focused inwardly. It's good some times to try to redirect attention outside the building at our customers -- both readers and advertisers."
So not long ago, The Arizona Republic conducted mandatory business-information sessions for all 375 newsroom employees, where reporters and editors got a lesson on their markets and their readers. The sessions produced a few "Why should we care?" responses from the newsroom, Mr. Oppedahl said, but they also seemed to have a good effect.
Around the same time, the Associated Press Managing Editors Association, made up of newspaper editors around the country, has formed a Business Literacy in the Newsroom Committee, which will report later this year on similar efforts at dailies elsewhere to pry open newsroom windows to the cold blast of the marketplace, if only a little.
"I think we are all comfortable doing journalism, very good journalism, and not paying much attention to the business," said Janet Leach, managing editor of The Cincinnati Enquirer, who is head of the committee. "Sure, we all have an idea who our largest advertisers are, but we also have to be more aware of the customer who is reading the paper, and the advertisers, and the community."
Ms. Leach said The Asbury Park Press of New Jersey, The Richmond Times-Dispatch and about half a dozen other dailies had also begun training sessions for reporters and editors. Among those papers is The Miami Herald, one of the Knight-Ridder papers, which has become a leader in this movement.
There are dangers in all of this, according to people who want to maintain the wall between the lofty church of the newsroom and the sordid counting room. Those dangers run deepest at the confluence of news values and business interests, said Steve Geimann, president of the Society of Professional Journalists.
"I think it would be very valuable for reporters and editors to have a greater awareness of how business works in general," said Mr. Geimann, who is also a senior editor at Communications Daily, a trade paper. "I think a lot of people get into the business without a proper grounding in how the economy works and how businesses work."
The danger arises, Mr. Geimann said, when business interests begin to impinge on news values. "The independence that the journalist seeks is separate from the preoccupations of the ad-gathering process, and when journalism values and business values come into conflict, the journalist always has to come down on the side of the readers."
Mr. Oppedahl of The Arizona Republic was quick to agree. "We are not talking about tailoring our stories to our advertisers," he said in response to a question about his desire to make The Republic's Tuesday issue -- a traditionally weak advertising day -- more appealing.
"We want our people to be made aware of who our readers are, because the idea is, if we get the readers, the advertisers will follow."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); ARIZONA, USA (66%); 

CITY: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (55%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL JOURNALISTS MCCLATCHY CO (84%); PHOENIX NEWSPAPERS INC (62%); SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL JOURNALISTS (59%); SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL JOURNALISTS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL JOURNALISTS SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL JOURNALISTS (59%); SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL JOURNALISTS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); ARIZONA, USA (66%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (55%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; FINANCES; ETHICS NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKETING STRATEGY (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); ETHICS (74%); WORLD WAR II (56%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; GEIMANN, STEVE JAMES K BATTEN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



169 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: In Honor Of the Fund That Loves New York

BYLINE: By PAUL GOLDBERGER 

 BODY:
Ford, Carnegie, Mellon and Rockefeller are respectable enough names in the realm of foundations, but in the minds of most people concerned with historic preservation, city planning and the quality of life in New York City, they don't hold a candle to Kaplan. The J. M. Kaplan Fund, with assets of roughly $120 million -- an amount that the Ford Foundation would consider a rounding error -- has for years been the first stop for those seeking grants to save buildings, support cultural institutions, restore landmarks and finding innovative ways of creating housing in New York.
The foundation put up the money to save Carnegie Hall in the 1960's when no one else would bother; it created Westbeth, the artists' housing in lower Manhattan that turned out to be a model for the rehabilitation of industrial buildings everywhere; it provided the first financial support for the New York City Greenmarkets, the South Street Seaport Museum and the Urban Center Bookstore at the Municipal Art Society. It started the Gracie Mansion Conservancy, enabled the Natural Resources Defense Council to set up its Urban Law Center and the New School to start its Center for New York City Affairs, and led the campaign for public toilets in New York. 
 The fund, established by Jacob M. Kaplan, the former owner of the Welch Grape Juice Company, began giving away money in 1947. Tomorrow evening it will mark 50 years of its grant-making with a celebration at the Rainbow Room that will also honor the 70th birthday of Joan Kaplan Davidson, one of Kaplan's four children, a passionate preservationist and cultural activist who ran the foundation from 1977 through 1993 and set it firmly in its present direction.
Tomorrow's event also symbolizes the transfer of authority to the next generation. Ms. Davidson's four children and three of their cousins have been taking over gradually since Ms. Davidson stepped down as president to become New York State Parks Commissioner in 1993, and now the foundation is at least as much theirs as their mother's. Their interests are not quite the same as those of Ms. Davidson or her two sisters and brother, and hovering over tomorrow's celebration is the question of whether the fund, which has been virtually synonymous with a certain kind of philanthropy in New York since the saving of Carnegie Hall, will continue to do the same thing.
Like many family foundations, the Kaplan Fund has an informal mandate. It was created to support worthy causes, and for the first 30 years, worthy causes were whatever J. M. Kaplan thought they were. Kaplan, an iconoclastic businessman who helped create a grape growers' cooperative and eventually sold his company to it, cared about union democracy, the New School for Social Research and, after Isaac Stern came to see him one night at his town house on East 80th Street, Carnegie Hall.
He had no interest in building a philanthropic bureaucracy. "If you had something to discuss, you would see the old man himself," said Kent Barwick, head of the New York State Historical Society. "Most foundations wanted you to do a study of a study and a four-year review before they would talk to you, and then they'd say your idea fell outside of their guidelines. But the Kaplan Fund was always open to new ideas. Jack Kaplan would lecture you, he would growl a little, and then he would come up with a check. It was the place you would go to get anything started."
One of the efforts that excited Kaplan most after he provided the emergency grant to save Carnegie Hall was the creation of housing for artists in Manhattan. In 1967 the Kaplan Fund joined with the National Endowment for the Arts to start Westbeth, set within the old Bell Labs at the corner of West and Bethune Streets. The project made both sociological and architectural history: it was among the earliest conversions of an old industrial building to housing in the country, it was one of the first projects intended specifically to house artists, and it started the career of the architect Richard Meier.
Kaplan asked his daughter Joan, who had recently resettled in New York with her four children, to manage the creation of Westbeth. That, in turn, set her on a career of involvement in the physical form of New York. When Kaplan retired in 1977 -- he died at 95 in 1987 -- he turned the management of the foundation over to her.
Joan Davidson, a tall woman with crisp features and silvery hair who was more comfortable picketing to save an endangered landmark than sitting behind a desk, maintained the informality of the foundation: no long studies, no committees, the boss makes the decisions. She focused the fund even more firmly in the direction of issues related to New York City's architecture, design and quality of life. She established additional programs to support the arts, human rights, natural resources and rural preservation in upstate New York, and set up a separate program, called Furthermore, that supports catalogues and books in the fund's areas of interest. .
"I always thought we were different because we did not just write checks, we stepped in and got involved," she said last week. "We didn't give huge amounts of money. To us the point was to use money strategically, to get causes off the ground."
The fund's grants have tended to be in the tens of thousands of dollars, not the hundreds of thousands, and some are as small as $1,000. Many are responses to pleas from outsiders: the Kaplan Fund gave Peter Neill the money to leave his job in advertising and start what became the South Street Seaport Museum, for example. But sometimes it has come up with projects on its own. Urban Center Books, the bookstore at the Municipal Art Society's headquarters on Madison Avenue, came into being simply because Ms. Davidson thought New York needed a good architectural bookstore, and decided that the fund would have to start one.
"We just did what we felt was needed," she said. By the late 1970's, the fund's reputation was such that even a small Kaplan grant was enough to give a new cause legitimacy. And the absence of Kaplan support could raise questions whether a preservation or city planning cause was good enough to pass muster.
Only one of the next generation of Kaplans -- who are actually Davidsons or Fonsecas, children of Joan or her sister, Elizabeth Fonseca -- lives in New York City. And while they understand that the foundation's roots are in the city, their interests have begun to move farther afield.
Bradford Davidson, one of Joan Davidson's sons, lives in Annapolis, Md., and he has encouraged his siblings and cousins to support a series of grants to civic organizations there. Peter Davidson, another son, lives in New York, but he has promoted a whole new area of giving in archeology, deep-sea exploration and technology. The fund has made large grants to help establish the Institute for Exploration at Mystic, Conn.
"It's a very interesting time, since we are all trying to decide what we want the foundation to be," Peter Davidson said last week. "We are all very happy with what it's been: my mother made the foundation central in the life of New York. But how do we go forward from here? Figuring it out has become kind of like family therapy. But we know we want to take more advantage of the interests of a new generation of trustees."
Betsy Davidson, who is now the fund's co-chairwoman, said: "We all grew up here, and our hearts are here. But we are edging out, and a foundation like this can't be a personal thing, the way it was with my grandfather."
In this sense the evolution of the Kaplan Fund mirrors the shift in many family foundations as they move to a younger generation, with multiple siblings and cousins sitting around a table that was once commanded by a single patriarch. And while the younger generation may be as committed to philanthropy as their parents or grandparents, they often do not have the same intensity of feeling about particular causes.
But if the Kaplan Fund does edge even slightly away from New York City in its grant making, it will leave a huge void, especially since both the Vincent Astor Foundation and the Aaron Diamond Foundation, two of the most prominent and powerful foundations that have focused their philanthropy on New York City, are phasing themselves out of existence.
Paradoxically, while New York City is a national center of philanthropy, its largest foundations pay little attention to the city. The Ford Foundation, the Carnegie Corporation, the Mellon Foundation and the Rockefeller Foundation are all based here, but they focus most of their grant-making elsewhere.
"The Kaplan Fund is the one of the only foundations that is genuinely committed to New York," said Mitchell Moss, director of New York University's Urban Research Center. "In most cities, foundations based there feel a moral responsibility to maintain the social and economic fabric of their community, like the MacArthur Foundation in Chicago and the Pew in Philadelphia. But in New York, all the bigger foundations in this city seem only to want to operate in a larger sphere, and become intergalactic in their concerns."
As Joan Davidson put it, "The great foundations have the whole world. We have always just wanted to strike a blow for small, decisive things in a world of mega."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joan Kaplan Davidson (Alan E. Solomon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: KAPLAN, J M, FUND CARNEGIE HALL CORP (57%); SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM (56%); SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM (56%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: KAPLAN, J M, FUND SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM (56%); SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM (56%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (90%); HISTORY (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CHARITIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); STATE PARKS (73%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (65%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (65%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (65%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERGER, PAUL; DAVIDSON, JOAN KAPLAN; KAPLAN, JACOB M GRACIE MANSION (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



170 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Internet Changing How Research Centers Work

BYLINE: By GEANNE ROSENBERG 

 BODY:
The year is 2050. The place: Earth. The possibilities: a chaotic world at the mercy of warring factions; a world in which sustainable development is mediated by governmental action; a world in which technology has eliminated the threats posed by global warming, population growth and diminished natural resources. Which future is in store and what, if anything, can or should be done about it?
These questions were collectively addressed by environmentalists, economists, academicians and policy makers. But while the Rand Corporation and the World Resources Institute helped set up the debate, the arena was not a conference room. 
 Instead, it was Hyper Forum, a site in cyberspace where experts convened earlier this year to "grapple with the range of plausible futures," said Robert Lempert, a senior scientist at Rand who helped develop Hyper Forum along with others at Rand, the World Resources Institute, the Markle Foundation and Bruce Murray, a professor of planetary science and geology at the California Institute of Technology and Hyper Forum project leader.
At Rand, Dr. Lempert said, "We still have our tank." But the notion of a tankless "think tank" is not an oxymoron -- not in cyberspace at any rate. Experts in fields as diverse as politics, economics, the environment, law and business are choosing the Internet as the most efficient forum for policy research.
A case in point is the Cyberspace Law Institute, an Internet-based research group devoted to promoting discussion on the law of cyberspace.
Increasingly, according to Maggie Powell, electronic publishing manager at the World Resources Institute in Washington, the Internet "gives everyone the opportunity to be able to contribute their thoughts without leaving their desks."
Long-distance collaboration has been an organic part of the Internet since it was incubated in academic and Government circles in the 1980's. Businesses have been built around software, like Lotus Notes, which enhances such collaboration.
But now the technology that arose from an academic environment is returning in a new guise: as a tool for research centers to reorganize policy discussions, build agreements among specialists and reach out for new voices and new perspectives.
Hyper Forum provides a clear example of how the Internet is changing the way research centers operate. "The idea is, a forum is a place where people come together to debate," Dr. Lempert said. Group software allowing people to collaborate on complex issues is only one component of Hyper Forum. It contains some of the features of software like Lotus Notes, but adds information, structure and methodology.
In contrast to the face-to-face meetings that research centers have traditionally held, Hyper Forum allows "more stakeholders," or policy makers, to participate and can reach people who otherwise might not contribute, Dr. Lempert said.
Opening the doors when there is free food for thought, however, can draw crowds. David Post, a law professor who co-founded the Cyberspace Law Institute, discovered this virtual reality when his institute played host to a cyberconference for nonlawyers on the law of cyberspace. According to Professor Post, more than 20,000 people participated via E-mail. "There's just not enough time in the universe to deal with that," he said, and not all of the queries could be answered.
"The problem that everyone is trying to deal with with the Web is the information glut," which "degrades the usefulness of the information," Dr. Lempert observed. To resolve this problem, he said, Hyper Forum uses a moderator to guide the discussion.
Roger Hurwitz, research scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, predicted that "the need for collaboration and managing the complexity of collaboration" is going to increase.
Dr. Hurwitz and John Mallery, also an M.I.T. research scientist, have developed software for wide- area collaboration. "Wide-area collaboration is the idea of letting everyone who is relevant within the enterprise work on the material," Dr. Hurwitz explained. His software manages and directs participation.
The Virtual Institute of Information, a search and link network for telecommunications, cybercommunications and mass media research operated by the Institute for Tele-Information at Columbia University has been host to cyberconferences. Topics have included cryptography, electronic publishing and telecommunications law, said Carla Legendre, communications program manager.
Eli Noam, professor of finance and economics at Columbia and director of the Institute for Tele-Information, has experience with radio and video Internet communications. "There's a certain aspect at this point of 'Look Ma, no hands,' " he said of the emerging technologies. But, he added, what distinguishes the Internet is that "you have the ability to establish very rapidly shifting groups of people to form ad hoc collaborative arrangements."
The Internet is providing "a better informed and better expressed forum for deliberative discourse," Dr. Murray said, adding: "I think the Web is an amazing revolution. I think it's a millennial change and not just a decennial or centennial one."
While Internet users can chat with each other in real time on line, Dr. Murray believes that electronic correspondence -- which, while quick, allows participants a chance to think before they write -- is the key to collaboration on complex projects. Dr. Murray compares use of the Net for "deliberative discourse" to Thomas Jefferson's correspondence through letter writing in that individuals can take the time to analyze a complex situation and carefully construct and communicate their own thoughts, reactions or additions. However, unlike the painfully slow process of written correspondence between two authors in the days before the locomotive, the Internet allows almost instantaneous and simultaneous access to up-to-the-minute updates of huge amounts of information by multiple correspondents in a medium that unlike the penned word, "is particularly well suited for visualizing things."
In addition, he said, while huge amounts of information have previously been organized "in a serial sense," alphabetically, or by number, information on the Net "is defined only in connection with other information" which is "much more the way the human brain works -- pattern recognition."
But while the Net may be changing the mode of collaboration at research centers and elsewhere, even Internet aficionados agree that actual meetings are not obsolete.
Charles M. Firestone, director of the Aspen Institute's communications and society program, said the Internet "affects almost every level of what we do."
But, while he concedes that the World Wide Web allows for "more people to participate" in discussions, and "eliminates physical and social barriers" to collaboration, "what you really want to do is have the people whom you want to resolve the problem at the table," he said. "People still want to meet face to face."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (71%); WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (83%); WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (83%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (83%); WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (83%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB RESEARCH INSTITUTES (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (87%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (74%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (57%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (53%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, GEANNE

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



171 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Once Again, Africa Deals With a Crisis on Its Own

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, June 8

 BODY:
For decades, few major decisions were made by African leaders without first carefully consulting powerful foreign patrons, be they former colonial masters in France or Britain or cold war superpowers in Washington or Moscow.
But in recent weeks, two crises have shown what many political analysts on this continent and abroad say is a surprising new determination by many African countries to take command of their own regional affairs. 
 The first crisis culminated in the overthrow last month of the longtime dictator Mobutu Sese Seko in Congo, the former Zaire. And now a Nigerian-led West African intervention is trying to reverse a military coup against an elected Government in Sierra Leone.
The analysts say African countries have begun moving with unaccustomed forcefulness to settle problems that threaten regional stability, ushering in what one senior Clinton Administration official called Africa's "post-post-colonial era."
This new-found political activism grows out of a sense of a profound vacuum left by the collapse of the Soviet Union and the progressive abandonment of Africa by the West. It is based on a notion that the development and security of one country cannot be isolated from what is happening in surrounding countries.
The two recent African interventions have not only come without the support of outsiders; they have also been conducted in the face of warnings against them by the West.
"The outside world has withdrawn and is marginalizing Africa," said Francis Deng, a former Sudanese Foreign Minister who is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institute. "But what Africans are saying is that we don't care if you approve or not. Sure, it would be nice if you helped us solve some of these problems, but if not, we are going to do it for ourselves."
McArthur DeShazer, a National Security Council adviser on Africa for the Clinton Administration, said: "There is a feeling among the leaders of the continent that they want to provide for themselves, and this is very healthy. They are concerned about an image of Africa that relies on outsiders to come in and provide for them, and of Africans who can't do anything for themselves. The only way to fix this is being responsible for their own problems and, ultimately, being more accountable to their own people."
In Zaire's crisis, which began in October, Washington and London appeared to acquiesce in the decision by Rwanda and Uganda to invade their huge western neighbor to break up the Hutu refugee camps from which armed attacks had been mounted for two years against Rwanda's Tutsi-led Government.
But once the objective of dispersing the Hutu was achieved, and a narrow buffer zone under the control of Zairian Tutsi rebels established along Zaire's eastern borders, calls from Washington for Uganda and Rwanda to scale back their intervention fell on deaf ears.
Instead, sensing an opportunity to knock off Mr. Mobutu, whose Government, with heavy Western assistance, had been a source of instability for much of Africa for three decades, Uganda and Rwanda plowed ahead, stepping up their investment in the rebellion led by Laurent Kabila.
Not only did Washington's calls for Ugandan and Rwandan moderation fail, but a number of other African countries -- from Burundi and Tanzania to Zambia and Zimbabwe -- jumped on Mr. Kabila's bandwagon. And late in the war, Western diplomats say, Angola's leaders flatly told Washington to mind its own business after the United States warned Angola to curb its intervention on Mr. Kabila's behalf.
For many of Zaire's neighbors, serious economic concerns ranked just behind security issues. In Angola, for example, an anti-Government rebellion that was supported for more that two decades by Mr. Mobutu had used Zaire as a conduit for huge amounts of diamonds smuggled out of Angola for sale on the international market.
"African countries will no longer listen to you if they know there is no seriousness behind what you say," said Amii Omara-Otunnu, a Ugandan historian at the University of Connecticut. "Nowadays there is a widespread sense that the international community isn't really concerned with what is happening in Africa, and that is giving people a keen sense of how far they can go and what they can get away with."
Something similar happened again last month after Mr. Kabila's victory, when Western countries that had supported Mr. Mobutu's dictatorship for decades began urging the leader of the newly baptized Democratic Republic of the Congo to organize national elections quickly.
Rather than bend before the will of the West, which controls the purse strings for most international development assistance, Mr. Kabila enlisted other African countries, from Uganda to South Africa, to run interference for him on the issue. He argued that the Congo had fallen too deeply into chaos to organize an election before some national reconstruction was achieved.
"The year is 1997 and not 1887," said Julius K. Nyerere, the former President of Tanzania and an influential African elder statesman. "It is personally offensive for any African to hear outsiders presume to lecture us on our own affairs at this stage in our history."
Much the same tone of indignation could be heard from Nigeria recently after that country, Africa's most populous, mounted what came close in its initial stages to a unilateral military intervention in Sierra Leone. The goal was to reverse a wildly destructive coup by junior officers against that small West African country's first democratically elected Government.
Washington expressed disapproval of Nigeria's intervention, saying it preferred a peaceful settlement, and used an American warship to ferry foreigners out of the Sierra Leone capital, Freetown.
"Those countries which had emphasized the need for hasty elections are now primarily concerned with evacuating their nationals," said Nigeria's Foreign Minister, Tom Ikimi, whose remarks seemed aimed at Washington. "We have a responsibility in the country of Nigeria to assist Sierra Leone, to insure peace, security and the return of legitimate government."
For many outside the continent, Nigeria's intervention appeared at first blush to be little more than a ploy by one of Africa's harshest military dictatorships to gain greater international acceptance by restoring a democratic Government elsewhere.
But other motives have come to the surface that paint a far more complex picture of Nigeria's action.
For years, Nigeria has invested heavily in peacekeeping in Sierra Leone's neighbor, Liberia. Allowing Sierra Leone to spin out of control now would endanger a political transition in Liberia that is supposed to culminate next month in democratic elections.
As a country ruled by generals, Nigeria has special reasons to fear the spread of coups led by junior military officers. But this is a fear shared by civilian governments around Africa as well. Generally, African leaders seem to be coming to the growing realization that army coups set back the continent as a whole by hurting the investment climate, even in neighboring countries.
"We are getting tougher and tougher each time," said President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, chairman of the Organization of African Unity. "There's a new attitude to coups and illegal governments. Future coups will have it the hard way. They won't be entertained."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bodyguards of Johnny Paul Koroma, the leader of the coup in Sierra Leone, stood yesterday in front of a military headquarters in Freetown. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); SIERRA LEONE (93%); RWANDA (93%); UGANDA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); SUDAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; CONGO (FORMERLY ZAIRE); SIERRA LEONE; NIGERIA; AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); SIERRA LEONE (93%); RWANDA (93%); UGANDA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); SUDAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); POLITICS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); COUPS (76%); REFUGEES (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (72%); ARMED FORCES (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FRENCH, HOWARD W; MOBUTU SESE SEKO BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



172 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: Old Glory Wears Thin as Cuban Fashion Trend

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: HAVANA, June 8

 BODY:
Warning of "mental colonization," Cuba's official Union of Young Communists is planning to wage a campaign to persuade young Cubans not to wear clothes bearing the United States flag, a Cuban newspaper reported today.
The weekly Juventud Rebelde said the increasing use of clothes emblazoned with the American flag was a major point of discussion at meetings held in Havana by local leaders of the group, the youth wing of Cuba's governing Communist Party. 
 "It was clear that this fashion was just the tip of the iceberg, which, beneath the surface, conceals a tangle of ideological contradictions and conflicts," the newspaper said.
The paper said the group recommended drawing up and directing "a conscious strategy of cultural resistance" against the fashion trend.
Young Cubans can often be seen wearing jeans, T-shirts, caps or other clothes bearing the American flag. The clothes are often sent by relatives and friends living in the United States.
The United States and Cuba do not have formal diplomatic relations, and Washington has long carried out policies to try to isolate Cuba, including a 35-year economic embargo.
The paper quoted one member of the Young Communists' National Bureau, Enith Alerm, as saying that wearing clothes bearing the American flag was a "manifestation of mental colonization."
"Our battle is not just against the uncritical use of this symbol," it quoted her as saying, "but against U.S. domination, which is something much more extensive and shows itself in different ways."
She urged other youth leaders to use persuasion and "our historical arguments" to try to turn back the fashion trend.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (98%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); TRENDS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: SIR GEORGE YOUNG (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



173 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Legal Situation Is Confused On Web Content Protections

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL 

 BODY:
While the new frontier of the World Wide Web is often compared to the Wild West, on-line businesses now are looking to the courts to impose law and order and to help protect their content.
As that content becomes more valuable, the on-line entrepreneurs increasingly want to control who links to their sites, how they link and how their content is displayed -- questions that seemed largely insignificant even a year ago. 
 However, the first litigation on the matter appears to have raised as many questions as it answered. Last week, Total News Inc. settled a lawsuit with Time Warner's CNN, The Washington Post and four other major media conglomerates by agreeing to stop displaying their Web content with its own ads.
The Total News case involved a browser function that permits a Web designer to use a simple command to create partitions in a Web page. Total News, a Web company based behind a Lulu's Taco Stand in Gilbert, Ariz., links to 1,350 news sites, wrapping the linked content in a frame of its own advertising.
Because the closely watched case never made it to trial, legal scholars and people in the on-line industry said it failed to provide any significant precedent.
At the most, "it was a warning shot across the bow to people who want to make money using other people's content," said Trotter Hardy, professor of law at William and Mary Law School.
Tom Baker, business director of the Wall Street Interactive Edition of Dow Jones & Company, a plaintiff in the case, said that Internet businesses had to feel that their intellectual property was protected on line or they would have no incentive to post valuable content.
The settlement ultimately raised questions not only about so-called frames, but about linking in general. In what is believed to be one of the first agreements of its kind, Total News also said it would license the right to link to Web sites of the six plaintiffs, and that the plaintiffs could revoke that right on 15 days' notice.
In a related case that is still pending, the Ticketmaster Corporation in April sued the Microsoft Corporation in Federal court in California. Ticketmaster wants to prevent links to its site from a Microsoft content provider, called Microsoft Sidewalk. Ticketmaster contends that Microsoft Sidewalk is profiting from the link, and from Ticketmaster's brand name.
Microsoft counters that the essence of the Web is that it permits largely unrestricted linking and roaming of content. "If they're successful, the Web will change as we know it," said Frank Schott, general manager of Microsoft Sidewalk, which is continuing to link to Ticketmaster over its objections.
Hank Barry, a partner with Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati in Palo Alto, Calif., said that in the future Web sites were also likely to try to prevent links from sites that they did not want to be associated with.
Ultimately, the emergence of such intellectual property questions coincides with the increasingly profitable nature of Internet content. "Advertisers now realize there is value there, and eyes there and eyes that buy things," Mr. Barry said. "In contrast to 18 months ago, it now makes economic sense to control how your content is used." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (82%); WPO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (66%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (55%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: TICKETMASTER CORP; MICROSOFT CORP WILSON SONSINI GOODRICH & ROSATI PC (84%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (82%); DOW JONES & CO INC (66%); WASHINGTON POST CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TICKETMASTER CORP; MICROSOFT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (55%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; SUITS AND LITIGATION WEB DEVELOPMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEB SITES (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (70%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



174 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Effort On Freer Trade Is Losing Steam

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8

 BODY:
After the Clinton Administration's string of successes on trade and international economic issues, its efforts to open markets around the world have hit major obstacles here and abroad, raising questions about whether its foreign policy agenda risks losing the economic edge that marked Mr. Clinton's first term.
Intense negotiations over China's entry into the World Trade Organization have bogged down, all but extinguishing Mr. Clinton's hopes that Beijing would agree to major changes in its protectionist economic structure before President Jiang Jiamen visits Washington this year. 
 Chinese officials have told their Washington counterparts that the campaign finance scandal is to blame, because the investigations into foreign efforts to influence the 1996 Presidential campaign have made any Asian trade deal suspect on Capitol Hill. But Mr. Jiang's struggle to consolidate power after the death of Deng Xiaoping also makes him cautious about destabilizing China's state-run industries.
The trade deficit with Japan, a problem President Clinton described as critical during his first term, is on the rise again. But the post of Ambassador to Japan has remained empty for six months, depriving the Administration of its key negotiator with Tokyo on issues of deregulation and enforcement of more than 20 agreements struck in the first term.
And, after months of dithering, White House officials reluctantly concluded late last month that passing the budget must come ahead of a long-delayed effort to renew "fast track" legislation that gives the Administration authority to negotiate many new trade accords around the world, including a long-promised expansion of the North American Free Trade Agreement.
They now plan a major push in Congress in the fall, but it is a risky strategy because the legislation faces considerable opposition and probably could not pass in 1998, an election year. It has already become the target of jockeying between Vice President Al Gore and a likely opponent of Mr. Gore for the Democratic nomination for President three years from now, the House Democratic minority leader, Richard A. Gephardt.
One result of these delays is increasingly clear: Other countries are racing to take advantage of the growing perception around the world that America's trade push has slowed. Canada and Mexico -- the two other signers of Nafta -- are striking their own trade deals in Latin America, arguing that they cannot wait for the United States to act. France and other members of the European Union are taking advantage of the American trade arguments with China, sending trade missions of national leaders and executives to make the case that they are far more reliable trading partners.
Such delays are particularly damaging because this is a moment of maximum American leverage in negotiations around the world: with the American economy still running on overdrive, the threat of restricting access to the American market if American companies are not given reciprocal access abroad is particularly potent.
"It's a shambles," Jeffrey E. Garten, the Under Secretary of Commerce in the Administration's first term, said of the second-term trade efforts. "What was once a vigorous approach to commercial diplomacy has been eviscerated. The campaign scandals have made the whole Administration cower about China. And in Congress, the political foundation for a broad trade policy has crumbled."
In response, members of Mr. Clinton's economic team say they have made a series of tactical "sequencing decisions," determining that the budget, the recently passed Chemical Weapons Treaty, and the annual renewal of China's trade status had to come first.
During his first term, Mr. Clinton spoke frequently about the centrality of trade issues to his foreign policy. But in the last several months he has said comparatively little, save on a recent trip to Latin America.
Sometimes he has passed up opportunities to reinforce the point, including his announcement last month that he had decided to renew China's trading status, applying to its products the low tariffs most of America's trading partners enjoy.
White House officials have debated all year how to handle "fast-track authority" legislation, in which Congress approves or disapproves any trade accords, without amendments. Foreign countries often balk at any added terms, fearing interference by special interest groups seeking greater concessions.
The last "fast track" authority lapsed three years ago. Without it, the Administration cannot fulfill its commitment to let Chile become the next member of Nafta.
But the authority would also be much broader, allowing the opening of talks to reach a "Free Trade Area of the Americas" that President Clinton promised at the first Latin American summit meeting in Miami in 1994. Those talks are scheduled to start next spring. The legislation will also be necessary for a second set of accords in telecommunications -- one was reached earlier this year -- and in reducing barriers in financial services.
"We need to move forward on a global trade agenda now because this is the moment when our industries are most competitive," said Charlene Barshefsky, the United States Trade Representative, who alone among the Clinton Cabinet members has spelled out a detailed trade agenda that stretches into the next century. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; CHINA; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) ; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); SCANDALS (70%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; JIANG JIAMEN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



175 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Of Body And Soul

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
I used to believe that there were two Islamic fundamentalist countries that could resist the tug and pull of globalization: One was Iran, because it had oil, and the other was Sudan, because it had nothing. Iran seemed to have the resources to make itself an exception to the rules and Sudan was so utterly devoid of resources, it didn't seem to matter if it was in the game or not.
Wrong -- at least about Iran. Consider Iran's latest election. The fact that Iranians sifted through their presidential candidates, identified Mohammad Khatami as the one relative moderate, and then voted for him in overwhelming numbers (70 percent) is remarkable. It says two things: One is how much the Iranian public -- urban and rural, rich and poor, men and women -- had come to resent the rank incompetence, corruption and suffocating repression of Iran's hard-line Islamic leaders. 
 The other is that the allure and pressures of globalization are still acting upon Iran, even in its isolation. Iranian merchants know their country's semi-quarantine is limiting their opportunities and Iranian youth clearly understand it is limiting their horizons. The Voice of America has a Persian-language call-in show, in which Iranians from all over their country telephone Washington, long distance, just to chat about their problems. They are knocking on the world's door. They want to be part of the most profound global trends -- from open trade to civil society to cultural experimentation -- and they demonstrated that by electing the first Iranian presidential candidate with his own Web site (www.khatami.com).
In other words, what is happening to Iran is another sign of how globalization -- the intertwining of the world's trade, finance and information systems into a single structure -- creates a powerful network of economic rules, pressures and opportunities that countries have to either open themselves to or pay a steep price for ignoring.
Over time, that network will punish any country that overindulges either its body or its soul. For instance, France is a country that is overindulging its body, by trying to maintain a cushy lifestyle without the resources to sustain it in today's global economy. Iran is a country that has been overindulging its soul. Its leaders have foisted on their people an extreme Islamic fundamentalist identity. That doesn't mean Iranians want to return to the other extreme -- the sterile, anti-Islamic imitation of the West that the Shah offered. But their election does say they want not only more liberty, but also a better balance between Iran's body and soul. More body politics, less soul politics.
Mr. Khatami was elected, in part, because Iranians intuited that he is not afraid of striking a new balance. Indeed, he has said that Iran can "learn" from the West, which has "a superb civilization" that has influenced all parts of the world.
Mr. Khatami may discover when he tries to act on his mandate that the Iranian Islamic system is much like the old Soviet system -- everything is connected to everything else, and once you begin to try to reform it, you immediately expose all of its contradictions. Iran can't modernize its economy without opening itself more to Western business practices and contacts. And if it opens up to the West on that scale, how does it let Dale Carnegie in and keep Madonna out? How does it allow satellite dishes for business and not "Baywatch"?
That's his problem. What should the U.S. do? This election demonstrates that Iran's leadership is now under some real pressure from within, which is the only direction from which real change will come to Iran. The Clinton team is right to insist that Iran demonstrably stop supporting terrorism, building nuclear weapons and opposing Mideast peace, if it wants a relationship with the U.S. The question now is: Are we more likely to accelerate change in Iran's behavior by laying down our demands and isolating Iran until it meets them in full, or by laying down our demands and responding to any Iranian gestures, overtures, or positive statements with ones of our own?
I think it's the latter, because we now have a real partner inside Iran -- that 70 percent, who not only share our interest in an Iran that is better balanced between its body and soul, but are trying to do something about it. If we remain standoffish, we only give more leverage to the most dangerous Iranian leaders who want to keep Iran isolated from the West. There is real politics going on in Iran today, and where there is real politics there can also be real diplomacy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: VOICE OF AMERICA (55%); VOICE OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: VOICE OF AMERICA (55%); VOICE OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); RELIGION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); 

PERSON: KHATAMI, MOHAMMAD; FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



176 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Sniping at Mr. Lott

 BODY:
Sometimes a politician's achievements are best defined by the enemies he makes in his own camp. The Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, angered conservative Republicans last year by making deals with the Democrats to enact a minimum wage increase and health insurance reform. This year he upset the right wing again by backing the treaty to curb chemical weapons and the accord to balance the Federal budget without absurdly large tax giveaways or the evisceration of social programs. The last straw for many conservatives was his recent audacity in questioning the ouster of First Lieut. Kelly Flinn from the Air Force on charges stemming from adultery.
When Robert Novak, George Will, William Kristol and other ideological enforcers of the right start nipping at a fellow Republican, you can be sure that their victim has committed the sin of independence. In a scathing attack in the current issue of The Weekly Standard, Mr. Kristol levels the worst possible insult against Mr. Lott, calling him a "Clintonian" Republican. The warning from Mr. Kristol, former aide to Vice President Dan Quayle and guru of the social conservative right, could be seen as a cri de coeur over the Republican leadership's inclination to abandon ideology in favor of achieving results. There is a fine symmetry here, since the liberal wing of the Democratic Party is also disaffected from President Clinton's eagerness to compromise. 
 Mr. Lott is under attack from the right even though he is probably one of the most conservative legislative leaders to have emerged in recent times. He is enthusiastically pro-military and anti-abortion. He opposes government regulation, campaign finance reform and the social programs that have protected the poor and elderly for decades. But these positions are not enough for the senators who favor the all-or-nothing approach, leavened by campaigns of personal insult.
As for the budget deal, Mr. Lott and Mr. Clinton agreed to deep cuts in domestic spending even though they fell short of the Republican assault of 1995 on the social safety net. The tax cuts, too, were less than what the Republicans originally wanted, forcing some hard choices over how to apportion the $135 billion total among various claimants, especially the well-to-do.
The attacks on Mr. Lott can be viewed as an opening shot in the next battle between the social-issue conservatives, who favor tax credits for children, and the traditional Wall Street Republicans, whose priority is to lower the capital gains tax. Mr. Lott has not signaled which way he would lean and may have a difficult time deciding. The Democrats might actually be able to exploit Mr. Lott's dilemma if disgruntled Democrats offer the $500-a-child income-tax credit beloved by the Republican conservatives, even as others in the Republican leadership push something smaller for children in order to placate the Wall Street crowd.
The criticism of Mr. Lott is most of all a prelude to the next Presidential campaign, as conservatives like Senator Phil Gramm, Mr. Quayle and Steve Forbes prepare to stake out the territory of the true believers and derail a potential candidacy by Mr. Lott by charging him with weakness and eagerness to compromise. But if the economy keeps surging ahead, Mr. Lott will have ammunition as strong as Mr. Clinton did in the last election. He can also point out that the budget deal this year, if implemented in full, would bring the Federal Government down to 19 percent of the nation's economy in five years, as opposed to 22 percent a few years ago. There will then be ample room for the Republican view that it could be brought down still further. In the meantime, one should not feel too sorry for Mr. Lott. He is probably strong enough to handle the insult that he is more interested in results than empty posturing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) US AIR FORCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) US AIR FORCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); CONSERVATISM (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CHILDREN (85%); LIBERALISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); AIR FORCES (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); INSURANCE (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INCOME TAX (66%); MINIMUM WAGE (57%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: LOTT, TRENT (SEN) TRENT LOTT (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



177 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: BankAmerica to Buy Robertson, Stephens Investment Company

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
In yet another thrust by commercial bankers into investment banking, the BankAmerica Corporation will announce today that it is buying Robertson, Stephens & Company, a San Francisco investment firm specializing in technology, health care and other high-growth areas.
People close to the transaction said that BankAmerica would pay a total of $540 million in cash for the investment firm, or about five times book value. 
 After months of courtship and four weeks of intense negotiations, the deal was cinched with a handshake in the middle of last week. The formal preliminary agreement was signed yesterday.
Last night, David A. Coulter, the chairman of BankAmerica, and two vice chairmen of the bank met for a celebratory dinner at a private club in San Francisco with Sanford R. Robertson, the founder and chief executive of Robertson, Stephens, and all of its more than 60 partners.
Those close to the deal said that Robertson, Stephens would remain a distinct entity within the bank. Mr. Robertson is to remain in charge and is to become a member of the bank's board. The rest of the investment banking firm's senior managers, including Michael G. McCaffery, the president, and Randy Hecht, the chief operating officer, will also continue in their posts.
Under the terms of the deal, the bank will pay the $540 million entirely in cash -- about half is to be paid immediately with the balance to be paid over three years. Of the total, about $70 million is designated for contracts to insure the retention of key Robertson, Stephens executives.
One person close to the deal said that nearly all the firms' partners were expected to stay after the acquisition. "A huge number of people are going to be signed up for several-year contracts," he said.
Executives of both companies declined to comment publicly on the deal yesterday.
The wall that was thrown up between commercial and investment banking in the Depression was definitively breached only two months ago when the Bankers Trust New York Corporation agreed to buy Alex. Brown & Sons, the nation's oldest stock brokerage firm, for about $1.7 billion. Then in mid-May, the Swiss Bank Corporation agreed to acquire Dillon, Read & Company, a New York investment company, for about $600 million.
For more than a decade Congress has debated whether to repeal the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, which bans banks from underwriting stocks. But while that debate continues, court cases and rulings by the Federal Reserve and other regulators have given commercial banks permission to perform virtually all of the functions of a brokerage firm.
The rules have been most stringent on underwriting, raising capital for companies by selling their stock or bonds to investors. Last year, the Fed raised the amount of underwriting business a bank affiliate was permitted, to 25 percent from 10 percent of its revenues derived from the securities business. That was like dropping the starting flag, and banks scrambled to set up strong beachheads in investment banking.
The deal being announced this morning was, for many financial experts, the latest evidence of a trend gathering momentum. Asked what the next step in the industry was likely to be, the chief executive of another financial services company, who spoke on condition of anonymity, responded without missing a beat: "After this? More consolidation, particularly among the larger banks and securities firms."
The banks have their eyes on about two dozen investment firms known in the trade as "major bracket" and "bulge bracket" firms. They are considered attractive either because they are giants or, like Robertson, Stephens, they are focused in fast-growing segments of the economy.
Robertson, Stephens, which was formed in 1969, had estimated revenue last year in the vicinity of $300 million, industry experts said.
"Robertson, Stephens is serving growing companies that are most likely to grow into large firms," one financial specialist said. "The bank wants to tie into that growth. It is buying a strong franchise."
Among the clients of Robertson, Stephens have been Intuit, Sun Microsystems, Pixar, Centocor and the retailer Ann Taylor.
A spurt in growth for Robertson, Stephens is likely, too. "They're getting access to the bank's marvelous client base," one investment specialist said, "and they're going to have access to more capital than virtually any of their competitors."
People close to the deal said that among the unsuccessful suitors in the deal were several Eastern banks, which they would not identify, as well as several in Europe.
One senior investment executive who has been following talk within the industry about a possible purchase of Robertson, Stephens by BankAmerica, the nation's third-largest banking company, said the transaction was "a terrific deal" for both companies. It is a merger, he said, in which the strengths of each will complement the other.
BankAmerica, for example, has been successful as a global, commercial banker. But it has not been as successful in entrepreneurial efforts, such as raising money to start companies and expand others in Silicon Valley. That money-raising talent, however, has been a hallmark of Robertson, Stephens.
BankAmerica has also developed a reputation for developing and holding relationships for decades. Robertson, Stephens has not been as successful at this.
"Robertson, Stephens has been sales driven," said an executive in a competing investment firm. "They've been new-business driven, not as good at servicing customers over the long haul as they might have been. And the bank is going to bring something to them on this score."
But one investment specialist said that the merger could present problems. "They are two very different cultures," he said. "One is stodgy, bureaucratic. The other is extremely entrepreneurial."
On Friday, shares of BankAmerica gained $2.625, to close at $123.25, on the New York Stock Exchange, after The San Francisco Chronicle reported that the company was believed to be in talks to acquire Robertson, Stephens.
As the deal has built, Robertson, Stephens has been advised by Greenhill & Company and BankAmerica has been working with Lazard Freres. Robertson, Stephens has had Shearman & Sterling as its lawyers while the bank has had a team from Wachtel, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.
Whatever cultural differences may exist between the two companies, some aspects of the merger are expected to go quite smoothly. One thing is certain: neither will have to adjust to new quarters. Both are already ensconced in BankAmerica's towering headquarters on Nob Hill overlooking San Francisco Bay. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (96%); BAC (LSE) (96%); 8648 (TSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (58%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: ROBERTSON STEPHENS & CO; BANKAMERICA CORP BANK OF AMERICA CORP (96%); BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP (81%); DILLON READ & CO INC (63%); STEPHENS & CO INSURANCE SERVICES INC (58%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROBERTSON STEPHENS & CO; BANKAMERICA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (58%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B; ROBERTSON, SANFORD R

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



178 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Microsoft Moving to Invest $1 Billion in Comcast
In its most aggressive move beyond software and into the media business, Microsoft is nearing a deal to invest $1 billion in Comcast, the sixth-largest cable television operator, acquiring roughly a 20 percent stake, according to executives familiar with the discussions. The deal would give Microsoft a crucial foothold in controlling and distributing television programming. 
 In one deal after another over the last two years, Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, has shown his determination to have a major role in creating and distributing information and entertainment over whatever technologies exist or may emerge. [Page A1.]
 
Kohl Vows to Keep Euro on Target
Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany vowed to stake his "political existence" on a punctual start for a single European currency, hoping to dispel fears that Germany's stubborn budget deficit could derail it. But his comments led to speculation that the fiscal requirements for the monetary system might be lowered. [D2.]
 
Technology Running Out of Steam
Mutual fund investors may be growing less enamored of technology stocks. For the most recent week, technology funds saw investors take out $62.5 million, according to one estimate -- the biggest outflow since October. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D4.]
 
Theatrical Deal Is Seen
Jujamcyn Theaters, a leading Broadway landlord, and the Pace Theatrical Group, a presenter of national touring shows, are said to have agreed on a collaboration intended to nurture shows from an initial idea, through development and a pre-Broadway tour, to a New York run and international tour. [A1.]
 
Stalking the Digital Suspect
On virtually any day, an individual can leave electronic footprints as clear as the tracks his ancestors left in the forest loam -- a trail of information now routinely pored over by law enforcement agencies in search of suspects, as recent cases have shown. [D5.]
 
Foreign Policy Hitting Snags
The Clinton Administration's efforts to open markets around the world have hit major obstacles, raising questions about whether its foreign policy agenda -- China's entry into the World Trade Organization, the U.S. trade deficit with Japan, and a push for new trade accords -- risks losing the economic edge that marked Mr. Clinton's first term. [A1.]
 
Legal Protection for Web Content
On-line entrepreneurs want to control who links to their sites, how they link and how their content is displayed. They are going to court to win protections, but the first litigation on the matter seems to have raised as many questions as it answered. [D5.]

Union Plans for New G.M. Strikes
The United Automobile Workers union has taken legal steps to prepare for strikes later this week at three General Motors auto parts factories, a union spokesman said -- the latest showdown over the company's effort to shrink its work force through attrition. [A16.]
 
New Magazine Niche: the Disabled
From AIDS to arthritis, magazines are putting a glossy, for-profit spin on an essentially unoriginal concept -- how to cope with a particular malady -- that was once covered by informational material published by foundations or charitable groups. The new breed of magazines have articles on travel and interior design alongside profiles of disease survivors. [D23.]
 
Publisher Selling Onassis Will
Carroll & Graf is betting 50,000 books that "The Last Will and Testament of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis" can attract readers willing to pay $18 for something they could get simply by paying the copying costs of less than $10 at probate court in New York. [D23.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 7,435.78 up 104.74
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.77% down 0.14
The Dollar -- 114.60 yen down 1.62

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); PACE THEATRICAL GROUP INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); THEATER (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EURO (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); THEATER COMPANIES (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); LITIGATION (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



179 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2025 words

HEADLINE: Pristine Russian Far East Sees Its Fate in Gold

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER 

DATELINE: ESSO, Russia

 BODY:
The basic view from this mountain village hasn't changed for 7,000 years, since a giant reservoir of molten lava crested over to form the mighty peak of Asia's largest and most active volcano. Eagles and falcons dance through the crisp air. Not far away, the world's biggest population of grizzly bears -- shaking off their winter slumber -- forage for salmon as big as dogs.
There is nothing else in Russia, and little left on earth, like Kamchatka. A peninsula the size of California, with just one long, partly paved road, it has more earthquakes and live volcanoes -- including Asia's biggest and most active, Klyuchevskaya Sopka -- than anywhere else. Thanks to its fertile rivers, lakes and seas, the region accounts for nearly half the fish produced in Russia. 
 But while Kamchatka, in Russia's Far East, is one of the last pristine places on the planet, it has been left that way by accident. More than 5,000 miles from Moscow, the region was protected by the Soviet Union because it was home to a nuclear submarine base in the port city of Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky. For decades it was off limits to all but natives, sailors and fishermen. The staggering wealth that lies beneath the soil -- gold, silver, platinum and more -- has never been touched.
But the temptations have never been greater, because every year Kamchatka draws closer to death.
"There is a way to save Kamchatka," said Aleksandr A. Orlov, the chief of the regional administration's department of Energy, Mineral Resources and Communication. "And everybody knows what it is: we have to dig for gold. I myself want as much wild nature as possible. We all do. But first of all, people should have a good life. To live here we need development. Without it we should just turn this place into a wild park or game reserve and move away. Because if they stay people are going to starve."
The collapse of Communism, hard as it has been on many Russian provinces, has put special pressures on Kamchatka. Unique in so many ways -- it is, after all, so far east of Moscow that it is almost west of Moscow -- Kamchatka nonetheless presents the most striking example of the impossible struggle remote regions face in adapting themselves to the realities of the new Russia.
The subsidies, incentives and discounts that Soviet leaders doled out for living in Siberia and the distant north are gone now and nothing that people did here in the old economy makes sense anymore. Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, where 300,000 of the region's 400,000 people live and where almost no produce grows and everything must be imported, is among the nation's most expensive urban areas. Bread here costs three times as much as in Moscow. Unemployment is nearly 30 percent. In winter an apple costs a dollar.
The fishing industry in the world's largest salmon spawning ground, which accounts for more than 80 percent of Kamchatka's workers, is buckling under the costs of transporting its catch back to the population centers in the west. There is no longer any money in hunting because it costs too much to ship meat. Reindeer breeding, a way of life in the north for at least a thousand years, is also on the verge of disappearing. The regional government has become so impoverished it can no longer pay hunters a bounty to kill wolves, which have multiplied rapidly and decimated the herds. The reindeer herders are often so desperate that they are forced to kill their animals just to feed their families.
 
An Uncertain Fate, A Difficult Choice
But the pressure to find a way to make Kamchatka prosper competes with the knowledge that once digging here begins, one more natural paradise will almost certainly be lost.
"I am sure there are places on this planet as wild, beautiful and diverse as this," said Yelena Dulchenko, a geologist with the Kamchatka Institute of Ecology. "But I just don't know where they could be. If they dig for gold here they will ruin Kamchatka forever. It will become just another place that used to be special."
Gold fever sometimes makes debates seem simple, and it would be easy to portray the battle for Kamchatka as a struggle between those who wish to preserve the earth and those who would plunder it. But the people here have a reverence for their surroundings and a strong desire to protect them. They also have bleak prospects for the future.
Moscow can no longer afford to support places like Kamchatka; that much is clear. If it survives, it will have to find a way to do it alone.
"We are forgotten by the federal Government," said Gennadi Devyatkin, head of the local administration in the gold-producing region in central Kamchatka that includes Esso. "Forgotten except when they want our fish. We are a colony and Moscow can only take from us. At least in the old days they would give us back enough to survive. Not anymore, though."
That is why it is no longer possible to ignore the most obvious source of wealth in Kamchatka. There are from 500 to 1,000 tons of gold here, a figure that, while not enormous by world standards, could bring in as much as $10 billion.
"It's not going to change the world gold market," said Samuel Romberger, professor of Economic Geology at the Colorado School of Mines. "But it might excite a bunch of Western adventurists."
That's for sure. Canadian, American and Russian companies have all been eager to get digging and the fight has already become messy. Many of those who want the region to grow, or at least to continue supporting humans, say tourism is the only way to do it.
Since the peninsula has 30 active volcanoes and more than 100 that are dormant, one of the world's great geyser fields (along with Yellowstone), tens of thousands of rivers and lakes, and every type of animal from sea otter and sable to the world's biggest eagles, tourism seems to make a lot of sense.
But with no roads, the only way to move about the peninsula is by helicopter. And most helicopters are controlled by one company. Visiting the Valley of the Geysers -- where more than 200 geysers spout, bubble and boil into the sky -- can cost $2,000 for a few hours. A round-trip plane ticket from Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky to Palana, the northern administrative center, is $400. Many families don't earn that in a year.
"You would need to spend millions of dollars to turn this into a tourist attraction that would bring more than just the most adventurous travelers," said Gennadi M. Karpov, deputy director of the Institute of Vulcanology, the premier scholarly institution in Kamchatka. "The two volcano ranges are wonders of the world. But if you don't have several thousand dollars you can only see them from far away. You are not going to get thousands of tourists if all we have to offer them are helicopter rides."
There are few hotels outside the capital, Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, partly because the peninsula is in the center of a major earthquake zone and the cost of building hotels that can withstand earthquakes is huge.
Fishing is the only industry here to prosper. But many people feel its singular success may doom it. More than a million tons were hauled from the seas near Kamchatka in 1996 -- a record catch and one that specialists here feel is too large even for such rich waters. This year the Russian Government permitted quotas that are even higher, though, because with little else in the way of income fishing is all most people have. That is why so many residents have reluctantly turned their hope to mining.
 
Near Future or Far, Jobs Are Crucial
The effects of mining are difficult to predict. New techniques reduce pollution immensely -- but perhaps not enough to protect Kamchatka. Colorado still has many streams that are considered toxic-waste sites more than 100 years after gold mining ended in them. It is not possible to extract gold from the earth without flushing large amounts of heavy metals -- which are always found near gold deposits -- into the surrounding water. Fish eat them, bears eat the fish -- and both would suffer badly, as would people.
"The ground is wet here, and where it is not wet it is cold," said Igor Revenko, a leading bear biologist with the Kamchatka Institute of Ecology. Mr. Revenko has been taking a bear census here for several years, attempting with many other experts from around the world to understand why this appears to be the best place on earth for them to live.
"The conditions here are fragile and unique," he said. "This is not Colorado where the ground was dry. We are not nearly as big as Alaska. Also, we have to look at what we are going to get if we ruin Kamchatka for a few tons of gold."
Mr. Revenko said the mines here would be exhausted within 30 years -- a figure that regional mining supporters do not contest. Then, if the natural splendors of the peninsula are affected -- and slight environmental challenges often have major adverse consequences -- the possibility of using the place as an tourist spot may no longer exist.
"Personally, over the long run," Mr. Revenko said, "I think there would be more money in tourism."
This year, in attempt to protect those areas of Kamchatka that are truly wild and most in danger, Unesco put nearly 10 million acres on its list of protected World Heritage Sites. The legal implications of that decision are not clear, but it has not made everyone here happy.
"Everyone has a plan to save Kamchatka," said Aleksandr Rechednikov, a 50-year-old hunter in this town of 300 families. "But they are not saving it for me. I can't make a living hunting anymore. I can't fish. There are no jobs to offer, none. So why don't the good rich people from everywhere else in the world leave us alone and let us decide what to do in our own land?"
 
Facing Extinction, Tribes Hang On
Viktoriya Petrasheva also wishes people would leave the place alone. But her perspective couldn't differ more sharply from that of Mr. Rechednikov. Mrs. Petrasheva lives in Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky but she is one of the peninsula's dwindling number of indigenous people -- a member of the Itelmen tribe, which began its first wave of eastward migration more than 10,000 years ago. There were 25,000 Itelmen in Kamchatka when the Russians came in 1697. Today there are 1,000 to 2,000.
"My grandfather was executed in 1934," she said. "He was accused of being a spy for Japan. My mother was 6. Her mother was labeled an "enemy of the people" -- Stalin's infamous term for millions who then endured suffering, and usually death. "But ever since the Russians came here we have been enemies of the people. So it was nothing new."
Mrs. Petrasheva is an ethnographer who has studied the fate of natives in Kamchatka -- most of whom still live in the north, coastal or central parts of the peninsula. Her results are not encouraging. For centuries the Even, Koryak and Itelmen lived easily in harsh conditions. They herded reindeer, which provided meat and skins, caught and preserved an endless supply of salmon and hunted the bears, foxes and sable, whose furs helped them to survive the cold.
Taking a notebook from the shelf, she provided an account of deaths in the native Even village of Anavgai, just 25 miles from Esso. In 1994, 8 people died there -- out of 300 -- and nobody was born. She reels off the ages of the dead: 25, 27, 38, 41. In all, 26 villagers have died there in the last three years -- with two births. There have been one murder and seven suicides. The reindeer population -- which sustained the village -- has slid from 19,000 to less than 2,500 in the last decade.
"You can't even hope that we will survive as a nation," said Katya Atelkut, a veterinarian, sitting in the cultural center of Anavgai. Although it is May, all around her snow covers the hills and mountains.
"Maybe we won't even survive at all," she said. "People leave if they can. They drink if they can't leave. And now there is going to be gold. I don't know why, but somehow it is hard for me to believe we will see very much of it. I don't want to see them dig up the earth. Its all we have here now, and when that is gone there will be nothing left."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The fishing industry, centered on the port of Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, employs 80 percent of Kamchatka's workers. But it is buckling under the costs of transporting the catch back to Russia's major cities. (pg. A1); Kamchatka, a peninsula the size of California that holds the world's largest salmon spawning ground, accounts for about half the fish Russia produces. Yelena Ivanova sold fish in Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 
Map of Kamchatka showing the location of Esso: Near the village of Esso, grizzly bears hunt salmon as big as dogs. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: POG (LSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (91%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (91%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: PETROPAVLOVSK PLC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; KAMCHATKA PENINSULA (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; MINES AND MINING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MOUNTAINS (78%); LAKES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); MAMMALS (76%); FISHES (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (73%); TRENDS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); MINES & MINING (70%); GOLD MINING (70%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (66%); NAVAL VESSELS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: SPECTER, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



180 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
U.S. Hitting Snags in Effort To Open World Markets
After early successes, Clinton Administration efforts to open global markets are hitting major snags, both at home and abroad. Recent setbacks, including efforts to open China's markets and to reduce the trade deficit with Japan, have produced a perception in some countries that America's trade push has slowed. A1
 
Irish Sense Shift After Vote
Even as paper ballots were still being slowly tallied from parliamentary elections on Friday, most Irish seemed convinced that their new Prime Minister would be Bertie Ahern, 45, leader of Fianna Fail, the country's largest party. So far, Mr. Ahern and his coalition partners had won 81 seats, just short of the 84 needed for an outright majority. But granted support from only a handful of independent lawmakers, they could form a new Government. A3 

Effort to Restart Mideast Talks
Israeli and Palestinian negotiators met in Cairo for the first time in more than two months to try to restart their frozen peace effort. The meeting was part of a new flurry of diplomatic activity mediated by Egypt. There was no indication whether any progress was made, but no immediate breakthrough had been expected. A4
 
Clashes Worsen in Brazzaville
A militia group loyal to a former President seized the center of Brazzaville, the capital of Congo Republic, in a fourth day of battles with Government forces. The fighting sent some residents fleeing across the Congo River into the former Zaire and forced the United States and France to suspend efforts to evacuate their citizens. A6
 
Swiss Vote Affirms Arms Sales
The Swiss voted overwhelmingly in a referendum to continue exporting arms, refusing to turn away from an industry that has sometimes caused the avowedly neutral nation embarrassment. The measure's opponents, which included the Government and the arms industry, warned that a ban would threatened as many as 120,000 jobs in a country already mired in recession. A3
 
Cracow Turns Out for Pope
Pope John Paul II moved into the last days of a marathon tour of Poland with a stop in Cracow, drawing his biggest crowds in the city where he was a student and became a priest before he left in 1978, as a young cardinal, to become the first Slavic Pope. It was the Pope's seventh visit to his homeland as leader of the Roman Catholic Church. He returns to Rome on Tuesday. A10
 
Deal Saves Albanian Election
A European mediator, Franz Vranitzky, announced that he had persuaded Albania's opposition parties to take part in a June 29 vote seen as critical for ending months of political crisis in the Balkan country. Six parties had said they would not take part. Mr. Vranitzky said the vote would be monitored by more foreign observers. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A12-22
 
A Step Forward and Back On Health Insurance Plans
House Republicans offered a $16 billion plan to provide health care for uninsured children but said they could not completely fulfill their promise to set aside $1.5 billion to help low-income elderly people pay health insurance premiums. The plan for the elderly was part of the bipartisan budget agreement reached last month by President Clinton and Congressional leaders. A1
 
G.O.P. Asian Money Trail
A group that was run by the Republican national chairman used hundreds of thousands of dollars from a Hong Kong businessman to help free up money for party activities, documents given to Senate investigators show. A lawyer for the businessman said in a letter that Haley Barbour, the former leader of the party and of the group, offered to help with deals in China in return for financial aid to the Republicans. A20
 
A Kennedy Apologizes
Representative Joseph P. Kennedy 2d told a gathering of Massachusetts Democrats that he was sorry for problems in his first marriage, and he apologized to the family of the baby sitter with whom his brother Michael has been accused of having an affair. Mr. Kennedy's ex-wife has angrily described in a book Mr. Kennedy's efforts to have their marriage annulled. A12
 
Tough Time on Tobacco
The tenor of discussions over tobacco could become contentious in the next few days as negotiators remain divided on several important issues, people close to the talks said. Michael Moore, the Mississippi Attorney General who is considered the architect of the negotiations, has said he must decide this week whether to continue or break off so he can pursue his state's lawsuit against the industry. A14
 
2d Term Possible for General
Gen. John Shalikashvili, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, might be persuaded to put off his retirement and remain in the post for another two-year term because the general who was expected to be his successor has acknowledged that he had committed adultery, Defense Department officials said. Gen. Joseph W. Ralston was expected to withdraw his name for consideration for the post as early as today. A18
 
Train Wreck Spews Fumes
A freight train carrying hazardous chemicals struck a coal train in St. Albans, W. Va., killing an engineer and producing an explosion that sent clouds of hazardous fumes into the air. Two workers on the freight train were also injured. A22
 
Scholarship Rule Proposed
Texas legislators have approved a bill requiring state universities to make scholarship athletes meet the same minimum grade standards as other students. The bill's authors proposed the legislation as a protest against changes that are reducing the number of minority students entering universities in Texas. A13
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Suspects Unaware Victim Was Wealthy, Police Say
Neither Corey Arthur, the former student charged with murdering a Bronx teacher, nor his accomplice, knew their victim was the son of a wealthy man, the police said. Investigators said the evidence was overwhelming that the two had tormented and killed the victim for $800 taken from an automated teller machine. B1
 
Anger, Not Action, on Rent
New York State's top Republicans and Democrats attacked each other for mailing millions of fliers on their party's position on rent regulation, calling the distributions inappropriate use of public money. But there was no public movement toward a compromise on the rent laws. B6
 
Baby Discarded at Prom
A New Jersey high school student left the banquet hall where she was attending her prom, went to the bathroom, gave birth to a baby boy, threw its body in the garbage and then returned, officials said. . B4
 
SPORTSMONDAY C1-9
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: Sniping at Mr. Lott, don't shortchange the mentally ill, Steven R. Weisman on the Denver summit.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Anthony Lewis and Bob Herbert.
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-26
 
$470 Million Deal by Bank
Bankamerica will announce today that it is buying the investment firm Robertson, Stephens, for $540 million in cash, sources said. D1
 
Microsoft Reaching Out
Microsoft is nearing a deal to invest $1 billion for about a 20 percent stake in the Comcast Corporation, the nation's sixth-largest cable television operator, executives said. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
ARTS B12-13, C11-14
 
New Type of Theater Angel
Two companies are collaborating to oversee and finance shows from inception to tour. A1
 
Chronicle B6
 
Bridge C13
 
Crossword C12
 
Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); POLAND (92%); FRANCE (79%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); IRELAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ITALY (78%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (65%); 

STATE: CONGO RIVER (55%); 

CITY: BRAZZAVILLE, CONGO (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); ROME, ITALY (78%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); POLAND (92%); FRANCE (79%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); IRELAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ITALY (78%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (65%); CONGO RIVER (55%); BRAZZAVILLE, CONGO (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); ROME, ITALY (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ARMS TRADE (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (85%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); ELECTIONS (76%); REFERENDUMS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PEACE PROCESS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BALLOTS (71%); RELIGION (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (51%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: BERTIE AHERN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



181 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
Rocky Mountain Summitry

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

 BODY:
When the leaders of the world's wealthiest industrial democracies met for their annual economic summit meetings in the 1980's, they heard sermons from President Ronald Reagan and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher about the magic of the free marketplace. Now, in an odd turnabout, this month's meeting in Denver will likely revolve once again around the American and British leaders, but with a different story to tell. Their counterparts will be listening intently.
Almost alone among the summit members, Bill Clinton and Tony Blair will come to Denver with healthy economies, low unemployment rates and a centrist political doctrine recently endorsed by voters. Unlike their fellow leaders in Europe and Japan, they have fashioned a formula for curbing government spending while promoting economic growth and preserving some remnants of a safety net. Their success may prove chimerical, especially since Mr. Blair has barely started governing. But for now, it is the envy of the other leaders. 
 Though conditions in France, Germany, Canada, Japan and Italy are not precisely parallel to those in Britain and the United States, all of them face a fundamental problem of controlling costly social welfare programs that their citizens are reluctant to give up or even see diminished. The recent elections in France and Canada spelled trouble for anyone advocating more austerity at a time of high unemployment, even though the Canadian Prime Minister, Jean Chretien, squeaked through with a victory. The conservatives led by President Jacques Chirac in France were defeated, and now Mr. Chirac must govern with a Socialist Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin. Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany could encounter similar resistance in elections next year.
Voters in all the major industrial democracies -- as well as Russia, which will be represented in Denver by Boris Yeltsin -- are ambivalent about what needs to be done to breathe life into their economies. Throughout the 1980's, the Europeans and the Japanese lectured Mr. Reagan about the virtues of a balanced budget. Now that Mr. Clinton has worked with a Republican Congress to bring the budget into line, France and Germany are struggling hard to live up to what they used to preach. Like other members of the European Union, they set reduced budget deficits as a requirement for participation in a common European currency, which they hope will help secure long-term prosperity.
Under Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto, Japan too is facing the need to undo some of its social safety net in order to compete in the global economy (in Japan's case, without relying too heavily on exports that simply anger its trade partners). But the unstated concern among many economists is that social programs like pensions, health benefits, unemployment insurance and job guarantees are at the heart of what has kept Japan and Germany stable and prosperous for a half-century.
It is easy to deride Mr. Clinton and Mr. Blair as Tory Democrats, but they have found an idiom with which to argue that government spending restraints and deregulation are necessary and to make it look humane on the margins. Any innately liberal impulses for Mr. Clinton, of course, are kept in check by a Republican Congress.
But the political formula perfected by Mr. Clinton and Mr. Blair has one thing in common with that of Mr. Reagan and Mrs. Thatcher, namely its sense of optimism. Both leaders articulate a vision of prosperity that can be reached if the right steps are taken today. Where they depart from their conservative predecessors is in insisting that sacrifice be shared and that government invest in research and education to prepare for the global economy. Europe and Japan will probably have to find their own versions of these qualities of leadership if they are to overcome their economic malaise. STEVEN R. WEISMAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; CANADA; JAPAN; GERMANY; FRANCE; ; ITALY; CANADA (94%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); COLORADO, USA (93%); DENVER, CO, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ; SUMMIT CONFERENCES US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); CURRENCIES (60%); MONETARY UNIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); WEISMAN, STEVEN R RONALD REAGAN (90%); TONY BLAIR (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JEAN CHRETIEN (57%); JACQUES CHIRAC (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997



182 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: 'Golden Age' of Wages

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Thomas Geoghegan's anachronistic premises about college education are best revealed in his closing reference to a "Golden Age" when wages were tied to manufacturing, not education ("Overeducated and Underpaid," Op-Ed, June 3). 
 The most valuable economic resource is no longer the land or labor of an industrial economy but the skilled intelligence essential to a global marketplace. Not only are the first two years of college required for economic viability in the 21st century, but for lifelong learning as well. While high tuition can make college a high-risk investment for an individual student, tax-supported public education lowers the cost and guarantees dividends for the nation.
 
ANGELA BODINO
Somerville, N.J., June 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TUITION FEES (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (51%); 

PERSON: GEOGHEGAN, THOMAS; BODINO, ANGELA

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



183 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: A Convert Spreads the Word for Haitian Art

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

 BODY:
Jonathan Demme, the movie director, was walking around the West Side back in 1987 when music from the Haitian Corner, an art gallery, caught his ear. Going inside, he browsed but didn't buy any paintings. "They were a couple of hundred dollars each," Mr. Demme recalled recently, "and I was a flea market-junk store person. I'd buy art for $25 or $30."
But he was hooked. He returned to buy two works, which he thought of as decoration for his apartment. 
 That was then. A few months ago Mr. Demme was sitting with about 300 photographs of Haitian paintings, all his, trying to decide which works would be part of an exhibit. "I made two piles -- 'gotta' and 'don't have to,' " he said. "There are no 'don't wants'. And 'gotta' was the much bigger pile."
The results of his winnowing, an exhibition of more than 100 paintings called "Island on Fire: Passionate Visions of Haiti From the Collection of Jonathan Demme," will be on view at the Equitable Gallery, 787 Seventh Avenue, at 51st Street, from Thursday through Aug. 16. Mr. Demme, the director of "Silence of the Lambs," "Married to the Mob" and "Philadelphia," among others, owns one of the most comprehensive collections of Haitian art in the United States.
In many ways, subtle and not, collecting the colorful, image-rich works of Haiti's self-taught artists has changed Mr. Demme's life and his filmmaking. Haiti has become an abiding passion. "I fell in love with it," he said. "I keep meeting new artists and going back. You've got to go."
"The art sent me to Haiti," Mr. Demme continued, his hazel eyes narrowing. "But when I arrived, I met the people and saw the culture and the social situation firsthand." Several months earlier, Jean-Claude Duvalier, the Haitian dictator known as Baby Doc, had fled into exile after a popular uprising, but the country had yet to approve a new constitution and hold elections.
In February 1987, a few months after his first visit, Mr. Demme returned with a camera crew to direct a documentary called "Haiti: Dreams of Democracy." Since then, Mr. Demme, who is 54, has produced several other documentaries about the island's troubles. He turned activist, rallying others in the movie industry to the cause of democracy and demonstrating when he believed American policy to be wrong, such as when Haitians fleeing the island's 1991 coup were classified as economic rather than political refugees. Twice he was arrested, once two blocks from the United Nations and once outside the White House, on civil disobedience charges.
Mr. Demme, who is in the middle of pre-production work for "Beloved," the Toni Morrison novel he is about to begin shooting in Philadelphia, has pulled back from protest. "It was exhausting," he explained.
He has not stopped buying Haitian paintings, however. "I am not an expert collector, but I am a passionate collector," he said. "I've got closets full of them," mostly in his home in Rockland County. He has even commissioned works, like "The Boat People" bythe artist Fritz Mistira. "Part of what's great about Haitian painting is that it's really really affordable," he said. "You can get wonderful paintings at great prices."
Mr. Demme said he has become friends with Haitian artists and art dealers. And he has been influenced professionally. "On an unconscious level, it has affected my work enormously," Mr. Demme said. He cites "the moods that permeate off the images and the combination of colors that send signals to your mind. My eyes are so grateful when I turn them to this art." Movies, he pointed out, must also please the eye.
As Mr. Demme revs up for "Beloved," which stars Oprah Winfrey and Danny Glover, he said, "I've started moving pictures to my production office." The movie, set after the Civil War, tells the story of a young woman who flees slavery but struggles against its legacy and such personal traumas as cutting her own daughter's throat when she was 2 to keep her from being raised a slave.
One painting Mr. Demme has just moved portrays a mother and child "with blazing eyes, and the unavoidable sense of terminality," he said. It was painted by Christian Michel, a Haitian living in Philadelphia.
Mr. Demme said he had always been drawn to self-taught artists, though the value of their art is not universally accepted. Through his wife, a painter named Joanne Howard who he said "paints nature in a personal way," he has learned to appreciate academic art. But a few American folk art pieces are the only other works he has bought.
Pari Stave, the curator at the Equitable Gallery, has a personal interest in Haitian art and had heard of Mr. Demme's collection. She was intrigued partly because "he is an artist, and this is also an exhibit about an artist's eye," she said.
Mr. Demme, meanwhile, had been nursing his own zeal. "I longed to show these things even if people don't like them," he said. He wants to give the artists exposure in the United States, to exhibit the range of their work and to "show a positive face of a country and a people I love so much and that get chronic bad press."
The exhibit will be accompanied by the publication of a 200-page catalogue of his collection. In it, there will be several oral histories of artists recorded by Mr. Demme on his visits to Haiti. He has also produced a 15-minute video on one artist, Edger Jean-Baptiste, called "The Grand Master of Haiti." It is, Mr. Demme said, "the first time my filmmaking and art have fused."
And he is flying in four artists from Haiti -- Andre Pierre, Prefete Duffaut, Jasmin Joseph and Ernst Prophete -- for the opening reception tomorrow night.
For all his enthusiasm, however, Mr. Demme has not turned his film friends into Haitian art buyers. "I haven't infected others," he conceded. "I'm circling Oprah. She is a serious art appreciator, and I'm hoping she sees what I bring down. And I'm going to go for it after we finish the movie."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jonathan Demme in his Manhattan office with "Panther," left, by Jasmine Joseph, and "Boat People" by Fritz Mistira. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography 

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART PAINTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ART COLLECTING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); REFUGEES (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); COUPS (66%); ARRESTS (60%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (60%); 

PERSON: DEMME, JONATHAN; DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H JONATHAN DEMME (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



184 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Worry About Trade and Euro Pushes Dollar Sharply Lower

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar fell sharply yesterday for a second session as concerns mounted over Japan's growing trade surplus and over Europe's plan for a single currency.
The dollar fell to an intraday low of 111.80 yen, the weakest since last Dec. 6, before partly recovering to settle at 112.93 yen in New York, down from 114.60 on Friday. Since reaching a three-and-a-half year high of 127.47 yen on May 1, the dollar has fallen about 11 percent against the Japanese currency. 
 Against the mark, the dollar fell to an intraday low of 1.7049 marks, the weakest this month, before settling in New York at 1.7072 marks, down from 1.7258 on Friday.
The dollar's slide started on Friday when the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, reiterated recent comments by Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin that Japan could not rely on exports to lift its economy from its slump. A weak yen makes Japanese goods relatively less expensive for foreign buyers, and dealers worried that pressure from Washington could push the yen higher.
Doug Lee, a corporate dealer at Sakura Bank Ltd., said currency dealers were also concerned about the trade balance between the United States and Japan, expecting that a report tomorrow would show an increase in Japan's trade surplus with the United States. That was pushing the yen higher, he said.
Shaking the dollar from its strength against the mark was news that the French Government had decided to delay approval of an agreement that sets out budgetary criteria for participants in the proposed single European currency.
Currency traders bought marks on the news, selling the dollar and the French franc, expecting that the mark's status as the most solid currency in Europe might be enhanced and extended.
Further contributing to the dollar's weakness against the mark were comments by Reimut Jochimsen, a council member of the German central bank, who said the need to maintain strict criteria for monetary union was greater than the need for a timely start. The dollar rose the last few months in part because of expectations that the euro would start on time, even if the entrance requirements were watered down.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORP (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; EUROPE; EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROCURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CURRENCIES (95%); JAPANESE YEN (91%); EURO (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); APPROVALS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



185 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-Latin War on Drugs Replacing Blame With Cooperation

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: KEY WEST, Fla., June 6

 BODY:
When officials from all over the Western Hemisphere assembled here this week, they wasted no words on empty predictions of quick victory in the war on drugs. Instead, they focused on a less ambitious goal: working together, rather than at odds with one another, on drug policy.
This focus comes after years of mutual sniping about who was really at fault for the United States' drug problems -- Americans for consuming so many drugs, or other countries for supplying them. 
 Last month, a weeklong trip by President Clinton through the Caribbean Basin produced a declaration that called for increased cooperation between the United States and its Caribbean neighbors that Washington has said is now the cornerstone of American drug policy.
An estimated 200 law enforcement and military officials, representing some 40 countries, attended the three-day conference here, which ended on Thursday and was organized by the United States.
As usual, officials claimed increased success in interdicting shipments of drugs and reducing areas of production. But Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, said at a news conference that the most noteworthy recent development might well have been that "finger-pointing is down by 90 percent."
For instance, Latin American and Caribbean nations argued in the past that the drug problem was primarily one of demand and therefore mainly the fault of the United States; those nations have muted some of their criticism, in part because drug consumption by their own citizens is growing. Likewise, the Clinton Administration has recently sought to change both the tone and substance of its pronouncements.
On his visit to Mexico, Costa Rica and Barbados last month, Mr. Clinton spoke of the United States as a drug-producing nation, much like Mexico or Colombia, and acknowledged more explicitly than in the past the seriousness of the American drug consumption problem. His remarks were repeated here by General McCaffrey in his speech.
"This is something new, and it gives a different tone to this meeting," said Michel Amiot, the director of the European Union's drug control program in the Caribbean. "I was flabbergasted."
Mindful of past American promises, though, foreign drug control officials also said they were waiting for Washington to translate the good intentions into actions. "The United States is saying all the right things, but it is not yet doing all the right things," an official from an English-speaking Caribbean nation said.
In recent years, the United States has negotiated so-called shiprider agreements with Caribbean nations. Such accords, controversial on small islands fearful of threats to their sovereignty, permit American drug agents to pursue drug traffickers into the territorial waters or airspace of signatory countries.
Last month, just before Mr. Clinton's arrival, Jamaica and Barbados, the last holdouts in the English-speaking Caribbean, agreed in principle to such agreements, leaving only Cuba, Haiti and Suriname without such an accord.
An early opportunity to test the cooperation arrangement is expected in the next few months, when the United States and several Caribbean nations will undertake "Operation Summer Storm." It calls for increased joint patrols throughout the region, using both aircraft and high-speed naval and coast guard vessels.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (96%); MEXICO (92%); BARBADOS (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SURINAME (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KEY WEST, FL, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (96%); MEXICO (92%); BARBADOS (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SURINAME (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS DRUG POLICY (92%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG INTERDICTION (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY BILL CLINTON (84%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (71%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



186 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: NYC;
Get Involved? No Alternative For Teachers

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
THE noble calling of putting other people's troubles on your own shoulders has suffered serious blows with the vicious killing of Jonathan Levin. He got involved, this rich young man who taught at a Bronx high school and went out of his way to get to know his poor students.
What it got him is dead, or so many New Yorkers are thinking now that the police say that a former student talked his way into Mr. Levin's Manhattan apartment and, with another man, murdered him. Even if the details of this case change in coming weeks, it is safe to say that some city teachers will think twice about how involved to get with their own young charges once the dismissal bell has rung. 
 Marc C. Britou Jr. also got involved, and it killed him, too, at the ridiculously early age of 14.
This schoolboy from Brooklyn was on a science field trip to Philadelphia last June 22 when his good friend, Jason Moore, jumped or fell into a swimming pool at the motel where they were staying. Marc dived in to save his buddy even though he, like Jason, couldn't swim a lick. Both died, Marc right away and Jason, also 14, after 10 days on a life support system.
So what is the lesson: that you get close to others at your peril? That it is wiser, certainly safer, to keep your distance?
Safer, maybe. But wiser? Not at all, Sam Penceal said yesterday to 140 students at Middle School 61 in Crown Heights, where he is the principal and where Marc and Jason went.
"Marc gave his life for Jason," Mr. Penceal said. "I'm not saying you have to give your life for someone. But it is important that you give a part of your life to someone or something."
THE principal did not have Jonathan Levin in mind, but he might as well have. After talking to the students, Mr. Penceal made the point that teachers must give of themselves, too, no matter what the risks. "That's a lesson being lost on a lot of kids these days: not to forget those who come behind you," he said.
The occasion yesterday was the formal reopening of a city playground that had been renovated and named Marc and Jason's Playground, in honor of the boys who were friends in life and in death. It sits behind M.S. 61 on Sterling Street, a handsome collection of swings, slides, sprinklers and tennis and basketball courts -- redone at a cost of $585,000 and designed in a swirl of colors meant to evoke the Caribbean, the area of origin for both boys' families. Indeed, Caribbean accents reverberate all along the school's corridors.
While civic leaders spoke -- people like the local Councilwoman, Una Clarke, and Parks Commissioner Henry J. Stern -- a few teachers half-listened, their attention focused more on the dozens of students selected to attend the dedication ceremony.
Of course, he has to involve himself in their concerns, said Gerald Joshua, a special-education teacher, for "otherwise, there's no value in life."
"To be remembered for something noble, that's how life extends itself beyond the grave," Mr. Joshua said, adding that involvement for him also meant involving poor people more in the economic forces shaping their neighborhoods.
PAULA MARTIN, a sixth grade social-studies teacher, was not so sure that a horror like the Levin murder would scare off teachers who want to break down the barriers of race and class that often exist between students and their instructors.
"You can't always look at the potential risks," Ms. Martin said. "You have to look at it as how many people we can reach. Those people who are meant to be good teachers will be good teachers. They're not going to be deterred. The ones not meant to be teachers drop out, anyway, in the first five years."
A few yards away, the families of the two dead boys sat side by side. The mothers, Marie Britou and Claudette Moore, hugged each other, two women united by grief and by a low-boil anger over not knowing just how their sons ended up unsupervised in that drowning pool -- clearly a case of some teacher's not getting involved enough.
"We talk a lot -- encourage each other," Mrs. Moore said. "That's what we do."
Mrs. Britou nodded. "I don't know why Marc was in the water," she said, "but he was always there for his friend. That involvement was the way he was."
It was Mrs. Moore's turn to nod agreement, and to talk about what an ordeal the last year had been.
"It's good of them to remember the boys in this way," she said, looking around the playground. "At least I'll have some place to come and remember them."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (65%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (88%); MURDER (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); BASKETBALL (61%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE; LEVIN, JONATHAN M

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



187 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
That knock at the door of the bull market party? Small caps.

BYLINE: By David Barboza 

 BODY:
HERE they come. They may be late arrivals to this year's bull market jamboree, but the stocks of small companies are finally attracting widespread interest.
For about six weeks now, small-capitalization stocks have been surging. Yesterday, for instance, the Russell 2000 rose 0.76 point, to 387.90 -- its 10th closing high in three weeks. That came out of a month in which the index easily outperformed the Dow by rising 11 percent in May, its best monthly showing in a decade. 
 And that has many investors wondering: Is this the long-awaited revival of the small-cap stocks or simply a short-lived spurt for the little guys?
An informal survey of Wall Street strategists suggests that small caps should keep rallying as investors shop for small, undervalued companies.
"This is just the beginning of a comeback rally," said Claudia E. Mott, director of small-cap research at Prudential Securities. But Ms. Mott cautioned that unless small companies report strong second-quarter earnings growth this year, their stocks could slump once again.
Earnings projections for small companies have often been unreliable in recent years. Even so, analysts say that there is growing optimism about the prospect of further small-cap gains in the next few months.
Byron R. Wien, the United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley, contends that large-capitalization stocks are vastly overvalued, and that small-cap stocks are a much better buy now. He is not advising investors to sell their holdings in large caps, which continue to perform well, but to plow new money into small caps, partly because large-cap momentum cannot go on forever.
"The market is a function of truth and beauty," he said. "Truth is on the side of small caps; beauty on the side of large caps -- they're popular. But there's no telling how far momentum can carry you."
Some analysts believe that small caps could also benefit from the coming move to rebalance the Russell 2000 index by swapping companies based on their market capitalization. When that happens, analysts say, the newly added firms could get a lift from mutual funds that track the Russell index.
Of course, no one knows for sure, but at the very least, many analysts say that the rally in small-cap stocks augurs well for the market, largely because it suggests greater demand for stocks.
"This is a healthy sign that the market is broadening out," Mr. Wien said. "For a while we had large multinationals dominating. But this is a time when small caps play catch up."
The gains in small-cap stocks are being attributed to a number of factors, including the renewed strength of small technology stocks and heavier cash flows into mutual funds that invest in small-cap companies.
A dearth of new issues -- or small companies going public -- may also be aiding small caps. This year, initial public offerings are down 50 percent from the 1996 pace in dollar terms, according to the Securities Data Company.
"There's very little supply of new issues," said William Paternotte, an investment strategist at Alex. Brown & Sons. "So, in effect, investors had to put money into companies already on the market."
But more important, analysts say, is the relative attractiveness of small caps. "They're just extremely cheap on any historical basis," said Jeffrey Brown, a small-cap analyst at Salomon Brothers. "That's driving a lot of the bulls to say they're too cheap to pass up right now."
According to Salomon, the Russell 2000 is trading at a steep discount to the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Based on projected earnings through next April, the price-to-earnings ratio of the Russell 2000 is 15.6, compared with 17.3 for the S.& P. 500 -- among the widest gaps in a decade, Mr. Brown said.
And that has proved enticing to investors, many of whom bid up the prices of health care and small technology stocks last month.
In recent weeks, Abby Joseph Cohen, the co-chairwoman of the investment policy committee at Goldman Sachs & Company, has issued a number of reports about how small caps offer "attractive relative returns" when compared with large-cap stocks. And while she conceded that large companies have the benefit of access to global markets, she said that such factors did not fully justify the disparity in stock returns.
"How much more do you want to pay for the large companies?" she said. "We think the reason to buy small caps is because they're attractively priced. There's good profit growth there."
One reason some strategists remain cautious, though, is that small caps have not outperformed large caps since 1993, largely because large caps are much more liquid and, in recent years, have had an outstanding record of beating earnings estimates.
Some other analysts argue that the current rally is just a rebound from a nasty downturn that began last year. In fact, between May 1, 1996, and April 30, 1997, the Russell lost 2 percent while the S.& P. 500 rose 22 percent -- the largest 12-month disparity for the two indexes since the Russell was formed in the late 1970's.
And, despite their surge in May, small caps continue to lag far behind large caps this year. While the Russell 2000 is up 7 percent this year, the S.& P. 500 is up 16.5 percent.
"One month of relative outperformance doesn't convince me that we're in the middle of a small-cap bull market," Mr. Brown said. "Normally small caps outperform at the beginning of an economic expansion, not where we are right now."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); CASH FLOW (76%); INDEX FUNDS (76%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



188 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
U.S. to Cut Auctions and Increase Issues

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The Treasury said yesterday that it was changing its auction schedule to include a new five-year inflation-indexed note this year and to reduce the number of auctions of conventional 10-year notes to four a year from six. It also said it planned to add a 30-year inflation-indexed security in the future.
While the announcement of a reduction in the supply of new debt issues should have lifted the overall market yesterday because of the tightening of supply that it portends, the effect was minimal because market participants had already priced in that eventuality last week. Besides, the dollar, which often moves parallel to the bond market, was weaker, and some investors took profits after last week's rally and amid a vacuum of economic data that kept volume low. 
 The benchmark 30-year bond dropped 19/32 , to a price of 97 17/32 ; the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.82 percent, from 6.77 percent on Friday. Traders noted that the thin volume added much to the session's volatility.
In announcing the changes in the inflation-indexed securities program, Lawrence H. Summers, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, said he was pleased with the market's response so far to the new type of securities, which are intended to compensate for rises in consumer prices. In January the Treasury auctioned $7 billion of 10-year inflation-indexed securities; in May it sold $8 billion more of the same security in an effort to build liquidity.
"In July, we will offer our first inflation-indexed securities with a five-year maturity, and in October, we expect to reopen this issue," he said.
Mr. Summers added that the Treasury expected to offer a new 10-year inflation-indexed note in January. The 30-year indexed bond is to be added during the next year, as a regular schedule for auctions of the three maturities of this type of securities begins.
And as a result of the growth in this program, as well as the decline in the Federal budget deficit, which is expected to drop below $100 billion this year, "we will cease offering conventional 10-year notes in the months of July and October, effective immediately," he said.
During the current quarter, the Treasury is planning to retire a record $65 billion in debt.
At the first auction of the indexed notes in January, demand exceeded supply by more than 5 to 1, more than double the demand of a sale of similar conventional securities. However, with inflation near its lowest level in decades, demand was more subdued at the April auction.
The indexed notes rise and fall in value with changes in the Consumer Price Index, with inflation adjustments added to the principal and payable at maturity. If market prices fall over an extended period, the value of the notes will never drop below their originally issued principal.
Elsewhere, the Treasury conducted its regular weekly auction of new three-month and six-month bills, which analysts said went well, with the three-month bill going for an average rate of 4.94 percent, up from 4.93 percent last week, and the six-month bill averaging 5.20 percent, down from 5.22 percent a week ago.
The following are the results of the auction of three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.751	97.371	Discounted Rate	4.94%	5.20%	Coupon Yield	5.07%	5.41%	High Price	98.754	97.381	Discounted Rate	4.93%	5.18%	Coupon Yield	5.06%	5.39%	Low Price	98.749	97.371	Discounted Rate	4.95%	5.20%	Coupon Yield	5.08%	5.41%	Accepted at low price	4%	26%	Total applied for	$47,019,505	$38,005,664	Accepted	$7,064,793	$7,051,958	Noncompetitive	$1,252,457	$1,127,364	
Both issues are dated June 12, 1997. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 11, 1997, and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 11, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month Treasury bills, from Feb. to June. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (65%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT LAWRENCE SUMMERS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



189 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 27; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Richard S. Aldrich, 73, Banker And a Former City Councilman

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
Richard S. Aldrich, a cousin of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller who was elected to a two-year term as a Republican councilman at large from Manhattan in 1963, died on Friday in Massachusetts. He was 73 and lived in Providence, R.I., his birthplace.
The cause was cardiac arrest, which he evidently suffered in an ambulance en route to a Fall River hospital, family members said. 
 Mr. Aldrich, a nephew of the Governor's mother, Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, moved to Manhattan in 1960 from South America, where he was an executive with the International Basic Economy Corporation, an economic development organization.
While working at the corporation's headquarters in New York, he won the Republican nomination for the Council in a primary election in September 1963, after charges that Rockefeller had insisted upon his getting the party endorsement. Rockefeller denied those allegations. In 1965, Mr. Aldrich withdrew as a candidate for re-election.
He was an investment banker in New York from the late 1960's until he moved to New England in 1978.
At his death, he was a vice president and a co-owner of both The Portuguese Times, a Portuguese-language weekly newspaper published in New Bedford, Mass., and a Portuguese-language cable channel in New Bedford.
Mr. Aldrich was a son of another Richard S. Aldrich, who was a Republican Congressman from Rhode Island, and Janet Innis Aldrich. After military service in World War II, he graduated in 1949 from Yale.
He is survived by his wife, Frances; two daughters, Frances Llopis of Madrid and Abby Gray of Baltimore; two sons, Richard S. Aldrich Jr. of Manhattan and William Stuart Aldrich of Glen Ellyn, Ill.; eight grandchildren and a sister, Janet Lawrence of South Hamilton, Mass.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); FAMILY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); WORLD WAR II (64%); 

PERSON: ALDRICH, RICHARD S; PACE, ERIC MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



190 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Plans More Dual-Fuel Mini-Vans

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 9

 BODY:
The Chrysler Corporation plans to announce on Tuesday that by this autumn, all of its mini-vans with 3.3-liter engines will be outfitted for the 1998 model year with the equipment to burn either gasoline or ethanol, the National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition said today.
Roughly a third of Chrysler's 550,000 mini-vans last year were equipped with this size engine, the most recent for which figures were available this evening. A person close to Chrysler confirmed that the company was planning the announcement. 
 The announcement will follow one by the Ford Motor Company, which said last week that beginning next year it will assemble 50,000 to 60,000 dual-fuel Ford Ranger pickup trucks annually.
Auto makers have emerged as ethanol supporters because they are preparing to build hundreds of thousands of vehicles that can burn ethanol, gasoline or a combination of both, so as to claim huge credits toward Federal fuel-economy standards. The credits, which allow auto makers to build more sport utility vehicles with high profits but poor fuel economy, apply even if customers only choose to put gasoline in their dual-fuel vehicles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ETHANOL VEHICLE COALITION; CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ETHANOL VEHICLE COALITION; CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; GASOLINE; ETHANOL; VANS MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); ETHANOL (92%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MINIVANS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); GASOLINE (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



191 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Tax Proposal Offers Wall St. Some Relief

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
For Wall Street it could have been a lot worse.
The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Representative Bill Archer of Texas, put forth a wide-ranging tax plan yesterday, and his proposals contained some relief that would be welcome on Wall Street: phasing out the corporate alternative minimum tax, reducing capital gains for middle- and lower- income investors, expanding the use of independent contractors instead of employees and continuing tax preferences for both 100-year bonds and for stock options. 
 But there were also a few bitter pills scattered among the proposals by Mr. Archer, the chief Republican tax writer.
Potentially the most painful proposal would require companies to register tax shelters with the Government. That would alert Internal Revenue Service auditors in advance to creative new tax avoidance strategies, whereas now they have to hope to find them after the fact.
The rest of the bad news was mostly limited to proposals to tighten or eliminate tax gimmicks, such as a device by which investors in credit card debt could delay reporting December interest income until the next year.
The biggest dollars are in Mr. Archer's proposal to phase out the alternative minimum tax for corporations by the start of the year 2006, which would cost the Government $33.9 billion in reduced taxes over the next 10 years if enacted.
"I am sure he will have a very tough time with that one," said Robert Willens, a tax specialist at Lehman Brothers.
Mr. Archer also proposed eliminating the alternative minimum tax for small companies, but he proposed to keep it for individuals with some adjustments for inflation.
Mr. Archer also proposed a slight reining in of the Morris Trust, a device that allows for tax-free spinoffs of companies. The device is called a Morris Trust after a taxpayer who won a case allowing a 1966 tax-free spinoff.
A likely spark for the proposed changes, Mr. Willens said, was a May 19 deal in which the E. W. Scripps Company said it would buy six newspapers and two broadcast stations from Harte-Hanks Communications, paying as much as $625 million if the Morris Trust is preserved and $775 million if it is not.
"I suspect the tax writers looked at that and said to themselves, 'There's $150 million we can pick up in just that one deal,' " Mr. Willens said.
Mr. Willens said at least $50 billion of deals involved Morris Trusts in the last year, but Mr. Archer's proposal is so modest that it is estimated to raise only $2 billion over 10 years.
Mr. Willens also predicted that Mr. Archer's proposal to end shorting against the box, a tax avoidance strategy that involves selling borrowed shares of stock while retaining one's own shares, might not produce the $1.2 billion of added tax revenue over 10 years that Mr. Archer predicts. The reason is that many people might shift to borrowing against their shares and a tax rule would then allow them to deduct the interest they pay, provided that they have interest income from other investments.
Many executives will breathe easier knowing that Mr. Archer has taken the tax treatment of stock options off the table. Options create a tax deduction for companies without a cash outlay, a major reason that companies are expanding them as a form of payment not just for executives but for the rank-and-file as well. The cost of options is borne by existing shareholders, whose ownership stake is diluted.
Cyclical industries like steel and autos would face only a slight reduction in their ability to use net operating losses to reduce income taxes in profitable years. Currently companies can use losses to offset profits in three prior years and then carry any unused losses forward for 15 years. Mr. Archer proposed two years back and 20 forward, which he estimated would raise $1.8 billion.

 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: SSP (NYSE) (63%); HHS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS561422 TELEMARKETING BUREAUS & OTHER CONTACT CENTERS (52%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (52%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (52%); SIC7331 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: E W SCRIPPS CO (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); HARTE-HANKS INC (52%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CORPORATIONS; TAX-SHELTERED INVESTMENTS; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (91%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BONDS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); WRITERS (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; ARCHER, BILL (REPR) BILL ARCHER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



192 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 17; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: 50 YEARS: JACKIE ROBINSON -- A Baseball Celebration;
Helping Students Lead Good Lives, Like Robinson's

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
During Betty Adams's childhood in Memphis, her parents portrayed Jackie Robinson as the paradigm of the qualities she was expected to emulate. Marian Anderson, Ralph Bunche, relatives and neighbors were also employed to teach life lessons, but Robinson always remained special.
"In certain situations," Adams said, "my mother or father would say, 'What would Jackie Robinson do?' " 
 Decades later, the question is central to Adams's daily work as the president of the Jackie Robinson Foundation, an educational charity created by Robinson's wife, Rachel, after his death in 1973.
Adams came to the foundation in 1986 from the National Urban League. "It was in its formative stage," she said during a recent interview in her modest Manhattan office, which also houses the Robinson archives. "It was poised for growth. It had a good reputation and a good track record."
The 50th anniversary of Robinson's breaking of the modern major league color barrier has provided a platform for the foundation to launch a three-year drive to raise an endowment of $12 million.
The annual dinner, held in March, raised $1.2 million, and Major League Baseball pledged $1 million more. Other sources include an annual jazz concert, to be held June 29; the yearly golf tournament, scheduled for Aug. 18; corporate donations; gold and silver commemorative coins to be issued July 1 by the United States Mint; a Radio City Music Hall celebration in September, and licensing royalties.
Although the notion of expanding the foundation's mission beyond education has been discussed over her 10 years as president, Adams said the directors always return to the roots: providing four-year college scholarships of up to $20,000 to needy minority-group students who show a potential for community leadership.
"We question whether we're making the best use of our resources," Adams said. "But the need is so tremendous. We always come back to education as a tool for the advancement of minorities and a commitment to young people."
Since 1973, about 500 scholarships have been awarded for students to attend 62 colleges and universities. There are currently 141 Robinson scholars attending college. "Last year," she said, "we received 3,000 applications. Of those, 1,500 met our basic requirements, and we made 43 awards." For the coming school year, the roster of scholars will increase by 50.
In a report filed with New York State, the foundation said it raised $1.75 million and distributed grants of $554,489, in the year ended June 30, 1996, up from $1.4 million raised and $516,630 distributed in the previous year. Some of the major contributors last year included General Electric ($92,500), Chesebrough Pond's ($77,000) and Coca-Cola ($25,000).
The foundation is in much the same market as charitable organizations like the United Negro College Fund, Upward Bound and A Better Chance.
"These days, with the societal and economic trends, it's hard to raise money no matter what your name is," Adams said. "The whole world knows the Jackie Robinson name, but they're not as familiar with the work the foundation does. Our products, our scholars and alumni are our best salespeople."
The scholars must do more than collect annual checks of up to $5,000. They must have a desire for leadership and community service, and must regularly apprise the foundation of their progress and problems.
"The idea Rachel had was not to simply count the number of scholarships awarded, or to pat ourselves on the back for our 92 percent graduation rate," Adams said. "But how do these young people conduct themselves in their personal and professional lives and how do they interact as citizens?"
Once a year, the foundation brings the students together with the alumni in New York for a networking weekend. "On Sunday, Rachel conducts a kind of 'Come home to Mama' seminar," Adams said. "We say, 'We know how well you're doing academically. We know your academic goals, but what have you done lately to help someone?' They share their triumphs and their difficulties. And if you have a difficulty, you have to share what you plan to do about it."
John Skipper, a scholar from 1981 to 1985 at the University of Pennsylvania, said he benefited greatly from the guidance and in turn is a mentor to current scholars. Now a lawyer for Con Edison, Skipper said: "It's definitely special for the guidance and the assistance. I got my interview with Con Ed because of the foundation."
The foundation is trying to nurture students into leading lives Robinson would be proud of; the work continues what Robinson taught by example, what Rachel Robinson preaches and what Adams's parents imparted.
"I think if Jackie were around he would be pleased," Adams said, "but he would be peppering me with questions about why we can't do more and faster."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Betty Adams, the president of the Jackie Robinson Foundation, which is in a $12 million fund drive. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (50%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROBINSON, JACKIE, FOUNDATION COCA-COLA CO (50%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); US MINT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROBINSON, JACKIE, FOUNDATION NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); US MINT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS BASEBALL (91%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (74%); COINS & COINAGE (70%); JAZZ & BLUES (70%); CORPORATE GIVING (70%); ROYALTIES (65%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (52%); GOLF (51%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; ROBINSON, JACKIE (1919-72); ADAMS, BETTY RICHARD ROBINSON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



193 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Compelled by Shabazz's Situation, Hundreds Give Blood

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS 

 BODY:
Half a block from the Harlem boulevard named for her slain husband, Malcolm X, Dr. Betty Shabazz was honored yesterday with something more vital than a street sign: the blood of hundreds of New Yorkers, who gave of themselves for a woman who few of them knew but all admired.
The blood drive, organized by The Amsterdam News and the Carver Federal Savings Bank, drew donors of all complexions and convictions, whose contact would usually be limited to street corner bump-and-run but who yesterday spent hours in intimate conversation while they waited to give a pint of blood. 
 There in the bank basement, fanning themselves with medical intake forms, was Ted Yanow, an elderly doctoral student in sociology; Fred Richardson, a caseworker for the city's Administration for Children's Services, and Jenny Burton, an aspiring singer. There was Bahia Lee, a home health aide; Ruth W. Messinger, a candidate for Mayor, and Bruce Thornton, a cook in a Harlem church.
There was Steve Feyl, a Bronx librarian; Monique Jaysura, a dietary aide at Harlem Hospital Center, and Edward Lewis, a Long Island business consultant. There was Carolyn Lyons, a retired nurse; Thomas L. Clark Jr., the bank president, and Coral Caporale, an Upper West Side lawyer.
All came because they were compelled by the latest tragedy to befall Dr. Shabazz, who was burned nearly to death last weekend in a fire the authorities say was set by her troubled grandson, Malcolm. Dr. Shabazz, 61, remained in extremely critical but stable condition at Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx, with the next in a long series of surgeries scheduled for tomorrow.
"She needs our blood, and she needs our prayers," said Mr. Lewis, dapper in a seersucker suit. "This is what's great about this city, how it comes together in time of need. But we ought to do this more often, not just in times of crisis."
Yesterday's blood drive, which will be repeated both Thursday and Friday at the same location, 75 West 125th Street, was one of the most successful in recent memory, according to Linda Levi, a spokeswoman for the New York Blood Center. The donated blood will be used to replenish the supply at Jacobi, where Dr. Shabazz will need repeated transfusions of plasma because of dehydration, as well as white cells to fight infection.
The drive had attracted more than 400 donors by nightfall yesterday and yielded 265 pints of blood. The blood was of all types and far exceeded Dr. Shabazz's needs. It will be dispersed to 250 hospitals in the New York region and is a windfall since summer is a time of dangerously low supply.
Yesterday's donors each had different motivations, some personal and some political, in addition to the general sense that a good woman, and an icon of modern black history, had been dealt another hand of grief. "I gave blood to you because of the blood your husband lost when he was alive," one donor wrote on the cards that all filled out for the Shabazz family. "I don't know you, but I love you."
The donors waited patiently outside the bank in the early morning, as the hair-braiding booths and the army recruiting stand opened for business. Once inside, they moved without complaint from one hard plastic chair to the next, finally reaching the cots where their blood would be drawn and the canteen where they were rewarded with Lorna Doones and orange juice.
For Ms. Burton, the singer, the motivation was a 20-year friendship with Dr. Shabazz's eldest daughter, Attallah. For Mr. Yanow, the doctoral candidate, it was a lifetime of fighting apartheid. For Mr. Richardson, the caseworker, it was the daily immersion in the lives of children so like 12-year-old Malcolm Shabazz.
For Ms. Lyons, the retired nurse, it was a payback for the time Dr. Shabazz spent as her teacher at Medgar Evers College, in a course called religion and culture in nursing. For Ms. Lee, the home health aide, it was a way of saying thank you to her own mother, who cares for her child while she is at work.
For Ms. Caporale, the lawyer, it was a way to bring her faith alive outside the walls of a church. For Mr. Thornton, it was a pleasing contrast to the time years ago when, unemployed, he sold his blood for money. And for Mr. Feyl it was just an accident. He had come to 125th Street to buy a Krispy Kreme doughnut and had seen the sign.
Ms. Lyons, crippled by arthritis, was disqualified from giving because she takes heart medication. But she did not view the time as wasted. "I just made a new friend," she said, gesturing toward Mr. Lewis.
They had been strangers an hour before, when happenstance put them in side-by-side chairs. Now he rose chivalrously, handed her her cane and kissed her goodbye. "The important thing is you were here," he said. "You tried."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: CARV (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (72%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMSTERDAM NEWS; CARVER FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK CARVER BANCORP INC (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMSTERDAM NEWS; CARVER FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: HARLEM (NYC); YONKERS (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BLOOD; FIRES AND FIREMEN; ARSON BLOOD BANKS (90%); BLOOD DONATIONS (90%); ARSON (76%); HOSPITALS (74%); HEALTH CARE (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); HISTORY (69%); CHILD WELFARE (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); BURN INJURIES (65%); MAYORS (53%); 

PERSON: SHABAZZ, BETTY (DR); GROSS, JANE; SHABAZZ, BETTY (DR)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



194 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Questions From West 47th Street

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
This column is for the stranger who asked me two questions on West 47th Street in New York City, and for anybody else who wants to know.
First, some news. A mission of inquiry to China headed by a leading expert on persecution of Christians reported the following yesterday: 
 Beijing's campaign against the Christian underground is increasing. Persecution is generally worse than any time since the dreadful early 1980's.
The Government has targeted leaders of the clandestine "house churches" of Catholics and Protestants brave enough to insist on freedom of religion and of worship. Sentences of years at hard labor are commonplace; some leaders have not been heard from since their arrests months ago.
Now, the questions from the stranger, who wore the hat and frock coat of many Orthodox Jews and stopped me in the street.
"Why are you writing so much about Christians?" he asked.
"Well, in various countries they are being persecuted, so I . . ."
He held up a hand. "I know why. You think if you write about that it will be good for the Jews, right?"
"Yes, but that's not . . ."
"All right, enough, so keep writing," he said pleasantly, and walked off.
Of course it will be good for Jews if persecution of Christians or Buddhists or people of any faith is known and fought. And yes, I hope if awareness of persecution of Christians spreads it will create at last a national human rights movement in America against religious and political persecution, both.
Maybe then business executives will voluntarily stop enriching the persecuting government and so . . . that's fantasy. China's religious persecution is not news to them; they could have acted years ago.
Most of all, persecution of Christians must be written about with consistency because it is taking place with consistency -- more, not less.
And because of this: Although more Americans are aware and demanding action, they are not getting it from Washington. Western democracies are all pious believers -- in increasing trade, not increasing religious freedom.
And this: If public anger against China's persecution continues to grow, Congress might push President Clinton into some economic reprisal. Washington bears a direct responsibility. It uses the U.S. economy to bolster the persecuting government, its army, police and Communist Party, by investments, imports and floating of Chinese bonds.
So back to the report. The carefully small mission was headed by Dr. Paul Marshall, author of "Their Blood Cries Out," an important book on persecution of Christians (Word Publishing, 800-933-9673), and sponsored by the Puebla Program on Religious Freedom, of Freedom House.
While some provinces are particularly repressive, the mission found that persecution has been stepped up in all areas from which it could get reports, about half of China. The pattern is not local but national.
Despite or because of the years of repression, China's Catholic and Protestant churches are showing "explosive growth." The official "patriotic churches" where Christians can go without fear of arrest naturally have had the largest growth.
The underground churches reject the Government's control -- registration, licensing of clergymen and what they can preach, authority over appointments, including bishops.
Evangelical clergymen say that about 40 percent of prisoners in the hard-labor camps of Henan Province were sentenced for belonging to the Christian underground.
But the underground church also increases dramatically. The report (copies from indispensable little Puebla: 202-296-5101) adds: "Underground leaders say the commitment required in China to practice one's faith leads to a strong, disciplined and growing church."
Footnotes for the stranger on 47th Street:
1. President Clinton abandoned his promise to link trade to human rights in 1994. He said that in return the Chinese would ease oppression. Later that year, the new wave of Christian persecution began. The screws were further tightened in mid-1996, and since, consistently.
2. The report says that in the past year police have beaten and tortured underground Christians with electric cattle prods and drills, sometimes in front of relatives forced to watch.
That's why.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); WRITERS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (70%); POLITICS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



195 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Insurance Acquisition Reflects Industry's Shift
Safeco, a big West Coast insurer of homes and automobiles, said that it was paying $2.83 billion for American States Financial in a transaction that exemplifies the insurance industry's move toward specialization. 
 Safeco will increase its main property and casualty business by nearly 50 percent, and American States' parent, Lincoln National, will abandon property and casualty to devote itself to selling life insurance and annuities and to investment management. [Page D4.]
 
$900 Million for Rental Giant
A subsidiary of Atlas Copco of Sweden plans to acquire Prime Service, a big American rental equipment company, for $900 million in cash. The deal will provide a windfall for Investcorp, which controls Prime Service. [D2.]
 
$541 Million New York Cable Deal
Cablevision Systems agreed to acquire systems covering more than 820,000 customers from Tele-Communications in a $541 million deal that would solidify Cablevision's dominant position in the New York metropolitan area, with more than 2.5 million customers. Cablevision stock rose sharply on the news. [A1.]
 
Tax-Cut Plan Is Outlined
Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who heads the House Ways and Means Committee, disclosed his plan for the first big Federal tax cut since 1981, sticking by his party's promise to reduce taxes on capital gains and on families but prompting criticism from Democrats that the plan favors the wealthy. [A1.]

The plan contained some other provisions that would be welcome on Wall Street, including a phasing out of the corporate alternative minimum tax. But there were also a few bitter pills, including the possibility that companies might be required to report tax shelters. [D6.]
 
Stocks Continue to Set Records
The Dow industrials flirted with the 7,500 level for the first time, rising 42.72 points to close at 7,478.50, as records fell on a broad front. [D10.]
 
The bond market weakened, however, with the yield on the 30-year Treasury rising to 6.82 percent from 6.77. The Treasury said that it was changing its auction schedule to include more inflation-indexed securities and fewer sales of conventional 10-year notes. [D20.]

China's Computer Purchases Cited
China has bought 46 American-made supercomputers since President Clinton deregulated computer exports in 1995, Government officials say. It may be using them to design nuclear weapons that could reach the United States, experts say. [A1.]
 
Ford Pays Dealers to Buy Back Cars
Seeking to prevent a growing number of off-lease cars from further depressing used-car prices, Ford Motor has begun paying dealers to buy these vehicles instead of returning them to the auto maker for sale at auction. [D9.]
 
Continental Seen Choosing Boeing
Continental Airlines is expected to announce that it will buy 35 wide-body jets from Boeing. The agreement will make Continental the third United States airline to name Boeing as its sole supplier of jets, arrangements that have been criticized by Airbus. [D2.]
 
Court to Weigh Harassment Issue
The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether the Federal law that prohibits sex discrimination and sexual harassment on the job applies to people of the same sex. [D26.]
 
Finding Against Law Firm
A judge has found that the law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy violated procedural rules by failing to disclose properly its representation of a company in bankruptcy and, in a separate matter, one of the company's largest creditors. [D6.]

Hundt Against Ads on Public TV
The chairman of the F.C.C., Reed E. Hundt, said that public television stations should reject a proposal to experiment with commercials in prime-time programs on Friday and Saturday nights. [A20.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,478.50 up 42.70
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.82% up 0.05
The Dollar -- 112.93 down 1.67

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (74%); F (NYSE) (74%); UAL (NYSE) (61%); ATCO.B (STO) (57%); ATCO.A (STO) (57%); BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (61%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (61%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (61%); NAICS333912 AIR & GAS COMPRESSOR MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WEST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (74%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (61%); ATLAS COPCO AB (57%); BOEING CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); WEST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INSURANCE (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); TREASURY SECURITIES (87%); STOCK INDEXES (87%); AIRLINES (85%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (79%); FAMILY (79%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); BONDS (76%); LIFE INSURANCE (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (67%); BOND MARKETS (67%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (65%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (60%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



196 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
IBJ Schroder Moving Within Manhattan

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

 BODY:
IBJ Schroder Bank and Trust Company, the United States investment banking arm of the Industrial Bank of Japan, will receive $3.1 million in public subsidies for moving its headquarters from One State Street Plaza to 180 Maiden Lane, both in lower Manhattan, under an agreement with city and state economic development officials.
The subsidies include $1 million in city and state sales tax exemptions and $800,000 in energy discounts. IBJ Schroder could receive another $1.3 million in sales tax exemptions if it expands its work force by 420 people over 22 years. 
 The deal is to be voted on today by the city's Industrial Development Authority.
City and state officials said IBJ Schroder turned down a more lucrative offer to move its 500 employees to 90 Hudson Street in Jersey City.
At 180 Maiden Lane, it is expected to lease 193,000 square feet for 20 years.
The building is owned by the CNA Financial Corporation, which in turn is controlled by the Loews Corporation.
Charles Millard, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said: "Sometimes, when your board is in Japan, Jersey City versus Maiden Lane doesn't make much of a difference. That's what we were up against."
 DAVID M. HALBFINGER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: L (NYSE) (69%); CNA (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (69%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (69%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: IBJ SCHRODER BANK & TRUST CO; INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN IBJ WHITEHALL BANK & TRUST CO (96%); LOEWS CORP (69%); CNA FINANCIAL CORP (69%); INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN LTD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: IBJ SCHRODER BANK & TRUST CO; INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); SALES TAX (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



197 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Developer Plans Sports Center For $1 Billion In Rockaways

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
A company connected to one of the world's best known development groups, the Reichmann family of Toronto, has proposed building a vast $1 billion entertainment and sports complex, including a hotel and convention center, on the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens, officials said yesterday.
The project, which would be built on 307 acres of city-owned beachfront land in the Arverne section, would include movie theaters, an indoor ski slope, skating rinks and a pool, and would create more than 10,500 permanent jobs, said Jeffrey Goodman, a spokesman for the development company, Heathmount Arts and Entertainment Corporation. He added that the company owners hoped to start building in 2000 and finish two years later. 
 The complex ranks as one of the most elaborate ideas proposed for the Arverne urban renewal area, which has been the focus of many failed projects over the years since Mayor John V. Lindsay's urban renewal bulldozers pushed over the area's crumbling summer cottages in the late 1960's.
But before breaking ground, the developers would face enormous questions and obstacles, ranging from their financial backing to the huge investments in transportation and other infrastructure that they say are needed in the Rockaways and that would have to be paid for by New York State and the city.
"It's an interesting proposal that could greatly benefit the Rockaways," Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said. "We are working closely with the office of the Borough President to assess the feasibility of a project of this magnitude."
Heathmount and Borough President Claire Shulman's office announced the plans for the project after Ms. Shulman met with local officials yesterday to discuss it, and details began to leak out.
Heathmount's chief executive is Albert Reichmann, one of the three Reichmann brothers who made Olympia & York into one of the largest property companies in the world, only to see it collapse in the early 1990's. Heathmount's founder and president is Abraham Reichmann, the son of another brother, Ralph. Since the Reichmann empire crumbled, several family projects that had been announced with great fanfare by municipal leaders have amounted to little more than colorful drawings by architects. In 1994, for instance, Paul Reichmann and the investor George Soros went to Mexico City to announce an ambitious plan to redevelop the city's historic core, but the project never went forward.
But Mr. Goodman said that Heathmount had secured private financing for the Rockaway Peninsula complex, which would be called Destination Technodome, as well as for a similar project near Toronto that would cost $700 million in Canadian funds. "The financing is definitely in place for Toronto and New York," he said. "Anybody would be foolish to be skeptical."
Mr. Goodman said the project would proceed as long as the state and city were able to provide infrastructure improvements, including new roads, sewers, better public transportation, toilets and ample parking. He declined to estimate the cost of the improved infrastructure, which would likely prove a thorny issue.
"When you're looking at a billion-dollar investment and thousands and thousands of jobs, the infrastructure investment by the state and city should be considered very seriously," said Ms. Shulman, the Queens Borough President.
Ms. Shulman said that Albert and Abraham Reichmann approached her a few months ago with the proposal. "I was a little skeptical at first," she said. "But they kept pursuing it. I finally realized a few weeks ago that they were for real because they had invested big dollars in research. They're interested in moving as quickly as possible because they feel that whoever gets in first, will get the business."
Beyond questions of financing and infrastructure, the Canadian company will have to contend with a host of other issues that accompany a project of this size. The company will have to work out terms to buy the land from the city, said Dan Andrews, a spokesman for the Borough President's office.
In addition, because the Rockaways are bordered to the north by the Federally protected Jamaica Bay, the developers will have to deal with environmental issues -- not to mention possible concerns of local residents over increased traffic.
Plans to develop the Arverne site with hotels, apartments or theme parks have been floated before without success.
In 1991, for instance, a partnership led by Forest City Ratner Companies gave up on a plan to develop all 307 acres with a $1.5 billion project of 7,500 apartments, as well as shopping malls, recreation centers and parks. The company said the downturn in the city's real estate market damaged the prospects for the project.
Mr. Goodman said that Heathmount was approached by state officials after the company unveiled plans last fall to build a similar complex in the Toronto area. The project was one of two chosen by the Canadian Government to redevelop a former military base in the city of North York, he said, adding that the company expected to break ground next April and have the complex completed in 2000.
The Mayor of North York, Mel Lastman, said he felt confident after the Reichmanns' private backers had assured him of the project's financing.
"Ours is very close to happening," Mayor Lastman said, explaining that the complex still needed to go through a local review.
Mr. Goodman said that the Reichmanns saw the Toronto and New York sites as the start of a worldwide chain of sprawling entertainment and sports complexes. The Rockaways, Mr. Goodman said, were chosen over two cities in Asia and Europe that were also bidding to attract the second complex.
The Reichmanns "liked what they saw," he said. "They liked the people they were meeting."

GRAPHIC: Map of the Rockaway peninsula showing location of the proposed development site: A $1 billion complex would hold a hotel and convention center. (pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (94%); 

COMPANY: HEATHMOUNT ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT CORP; REICHMANN FAMILY

ORGANIZATION: HEATHMOUNT ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT CORP; REICHMANN FAMILY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ARVERNE (NYC); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FILM (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); SKIING (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU RUDY GIULIANI (52%); GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



198 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-17
 
Sales of Supercomputers To China Raise Concerns
Government officials said the 46 American-made supercomputers purchased by China since President Clinton deregulated their export in 1995 could help the Chinese design more efficient or lighter nuclear warheads that could be put on missiles able to reach the United States. A1
 
Support for Fujimori Dwindles
Peruvians' approval of their President, Alberto K. Fujimori, has plummeted in the past two months, according to polls that show his approval rating at 39 percent. The rating had soared in the immediate aftermath of his ordering a raid to end a hostage crisis in Lima, but the continuing poverty and his autocratic leadership have led thousands of citizens to protest. A12 

Network Backs Moscow Mayor
Center TV, owned and operated by the city of Moscow, made its debut in Russia. The director of the network said its main goal was to spread the image of Yuri Luzkhov, Moscow's powerful Mayor, across all of Russia. Mr. Luzkhov is widely seen as a strong candidate to run for President in the year 2000. A3
 
Discontent Grows in Kenya
Tired of Government corruption, Kenya's beleaguered middle class has rallied to calls for reforming the Constitution to give President Daniel arap Moi less power. Popular protests have recently turned violent, but Mr. Moi has refused to meet with opposition politicians or to consider constitutional changes until after elections, scheduled for later this year. A9
 
Coup Leaders Find Few Friends
Leaders of a coup in Sierra Leone toured the region in search of support, but meetings with officials from other West African countries produced little backing. Nigeria, meanwhile, continued building up troops off Freetown, the Sierra Leone capital. James Johan, Sierra Leone's representative to the United Nations, accused the coup leaders of planning to massacre their opponents in the event of any outside military intervention. A5
 
Barricades Divide Brazzaville
Fighting continued for a fifth day between the national army of the Congo Republic and a militia loyal to a former head of state. Heavy street fighting and rockets and mortar fire pelted the capital, Brazzaville, which French military sources said had been cut in two by makeshift barricades. A11
 
Haitian Premier Resigns
Rosny Smarth resigned as Prime Minister of Haiti after several months of strikes and violent protests demanding his removal. Mr. Smarth, who had tried to reduce government spending and privatize state-owned utility companies, complained that forces loyal to former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide had rigged a runoff election for the Haitian Senate next week against him. A13
 
NATIONAL A18-25, D24-26
 
G.O.P. Tax Plan Would Cut $135 Billion Over 5 Years
The chief Republican tax writer unveiled his plan for apportioning the first big Federal tax cut since 1981, making good on his party's promise to reduce tax bills for investors and families but prompting criticism from Democrats that the plan favors the wealthy. Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said the tax cuts would be worth nearly $135 billion over the next five years, paid for in part by about $47 billion in new revenue. The centerpieces of his plan are a reduction in the top rate on capital gains from the sale of stocks, bonds and other assets and a credit for many families of up to $500 per child A1
 
General Withdraws Name
The Air Force general who was in line to become the next Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff withdrew his name from consideration after trying without success to persuade lawmakers on Capitol Hill that he was worthy of the job despite his adulterous affair several years ago. After a discouraging round of meetings with members of Congress, the officer, Gen. Joseph W. Ralston, announced his decision in a statement released at the Pentagon. Defense Secretary William S. Cohen said he renewed his search for a nominee and had asked General Ralston to remain in his post as vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs. A1
 
Link Seen in Atlanta Bombings
Leaders of a task force investigating a series of bombings in Atlanta said today that they were "all but positive" that the same person or persons had planted bombs at a lesbian nightclub and at a building housing an abortion clinic, and that they had "increasing confidence" that those incidents were linked to last summer's explosion at Centennial Olympic Park. A1
 
Clinton Vetoes Flood Bill
President Clinton made good on his threat to veto an $8.6 billion emergency flood relief bill because of unrelated provisions, volleying it back to the Republican Congress almost the moment he received it. Each side sought today to portray the other as being to blame for denying long-term relief to flood victims in 33 states. Mr. Clinton said the Republicans had left him no choice but to veto the bill, citing several provisions, including one that would prevent Government shutdowns in budget disputes. A21
 
Bribery as Grounds for Appeal
The Supreme Court ruled in favor of a convicted Illinois murderer trying to prove that his trial was tainted by judicial corruption. In an opinion by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, the Court said the death-row inmate was entitled to try to build a case that the Chicago judge who presided over his trial -- and who later went to prison for accepting bribes -- was unduly favorable to the prosecution because no bribe was paid in this case. The decision overturned a ruling last year by the Federal appeals court in Chicago, which said evidence of William Bracy's guilt was compelling while his charges of judicial bias were speculative and weak. D26
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-12
 
Future of Rent Regulations Focuses on Vacancy Issues
The battle over the future of state rent laws is now focuses almost entirely on one issue: whether landlords should be allowed to raise rents as much as they want on regulated apartments that become vacant. The State Senate's Republican majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, who six months ago called for abolishing most protections in two years, now supports a more gradual phase out over 12 years or more through the policy of deregulating apartments once they are vacated. But Democrats want the system to continue indefinitely. A1
 
Man Held in Murder of Wife
Ten days after he was released from jail in exchange for pleading guilty to charges of beating his wife, a Queens man killed her and two children, authorities said. Richard Lyle Timmons, 33, was found in the apartment with one of his wrists slashed in an apparent suicide attempt. He has not been charged. B3
 
Prom Baby Alive at Birth
A baby born in a bathroom at a high school prom in New Jersey on Friday was alive during birth, Monmouth County officials said, but they have not determined whether the 6-pound, 6-ounce boy was breathing independent of the mother after the umbilical cord was cut. If the baby's lungs were functioning on their own, prosecutors said that they could file murder or manslaughter charges against the girl, who left the little boy's body in a trash container in the bathroom, then went back to the dance floor. B2
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Sanity on adultery; Gerry Adams runs out of excuses; playing politics with adoption.
 
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Russell Baker.
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-22
 
French May Slow Euro Pact
The new French Government said that it could not yet approve a previously negotiated agreement that is crucial to the proposed single European currency, the euro. The French Finance Minister, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, said his Government needed both more time and stronger measures aimed at relieving unemployment before it would approve the so-called stability pact.The announcement abruptly torpedoed the carefully laid plans by European leaders to give formal approval to the measure at a meeting next week in Amsterdam. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
SPORTS B14-19
 
SCIENCE TIMES C1-8
 
ARTS C9-19
 
OBITUARIES D27
 
Chronicle B20
 
Chess C8
 
Crossword C10
 
Weather D26

GRAPHIC: Photos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SIERRA LEONE (93%); HAITI (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CONGO (92%); PERU (92%); KENYA (92%); FRANCE (79%); NIGERIA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: BRAZZAVILLE, CONGO (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SIERRA LEONE (93%); HAITI (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CONGO (92%); PERU (92%); KENYA (92%); FRANCE (79%); NIGERIA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); BRAZZAVILLE, CONGO (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); COUPS (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); CORRUPTION (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ARMIES (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (68%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (68%); TAX RELIEF (64%); ARMED FORCES (63%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (63%); TAX LAW (62%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



199 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Cablevision Moves to Acquire 10 More Local Cable Systems

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
Promising 100 television channels, high-speed Internet access and telephone service, the Cablevision Systems Corporation announced yesterday that it had agreed to acquire 10 cable television systems in the metropolitan area covering more than 820,000 customers from Tele-Communications Inc.
The $541 million deal would solidify Cablevision as the dominant cable television company in the New York City area, with more than 2.5 million customers. Cablevision said the larger network would allow the company to offer new packages of advanced communications services from Hempstead to Hackensack, including super-crisp digital television images, enhanced local news and, for some customers, more than 1,000 movies available with the touch of a button. 
 Cable television companies across the country have made grandiose pledges before, and broken them. But technology consultants and financial analysts said that operating a large, contiguous network would allow Cablevision to deploy some, though not all, of the planned services cost-effectively.
The deal requires Federal and state approval; state regulators did not foresee any problems. But consumer advocates said they would fight the deal.
The 10 systems Cablevision would acquire are on Long Island, in New Jersey and in Rockland and Westchester Counties. Cablevision, based in Woodbury, N.Y., is already the nation's sixth-largest cable television operator, serving about 3.8 million customers, including about 470,000 in New York City. Time Warner Inc. is the biggest cable television company in New York City. It has about 1.1 million customers.
"The transaction is a win-win," said James L. Dolan, the chief executive of Cablevision. "It might be actually three wins -- a win for T.C.I. and a win for Cablevision, but even more so for the consumers who we serve. We now have the concentration on the New York area to begin to offer the services like telephony and high-speed modems and educational services and programming services specially dedicated to the consumer in their locality."
The term telephony refers to standard voice telephone service, which Mr. Dolan said Cablevision intends to offer over its cable network. Using high-speed cable modems, electronic devices that allow computers to communicate with networks like the Internet, computer users would be able to view television-quality video.
The electronic hardware of the future may not come cheap. Cable modems cost hundreds of dollars and the high-definition digital televisions of the future, which will be needed to view film-quality images, are expected to cost thousands of dollars.
But some of the advances Cablevision has promised would not require expensive new purchases.
Mr. Dolan said Cablevision intends to develop a new cable channel for Westchester County that would show viewers a glimpse of rush-hour roadways using cameras already in place for radio traffic reports. "If you live in upper Westchester and commute to New York every day, that commute can take anywhere from 40 minutes to two hours and 40 minutes," he said. "In one minute and 30 seconds you will be able to find out about each snare-up."
Cablevision has come under pressure from shareholders and Wall Street to reduce its heavy debt burden of $3 billion, but financial markets reacted enthusiastically to the acquisition, even though Cablevision would also assume about $669 million of T.C.I.'s debt. Shares of Cablevision closed at $44.375, up $9.75, in heavy trading on the American Stock Exchange, while T.C.I.'s shares rose $1, to $16.0625, in Nasdaq trading.
Many financial analysts calculated that Cablevision had acquired hundreds of thousands of subscribers for less than they were worth.
Consumer advocates were not so positive. Gene Kimmelman, co-director of the Washington office of Consumers Union, a consumer group, said his organization would seek to stop the deal at the F.C.C. "and in any antitrust venues." T.C.I. is also taking a 33 percent stake in Cablevision, and Mr. Kimmelman said that would push T.C.I. over Federal limits on how many customers a cable company may serve.
"This looks to me like a back door effort to expand T.C.I.'s dominance over the cable marketplace," Mr. Kimmelman said. The Federal Communications Commission did not return calls seeking comment last night.
State regulators, however, seemed cautiously optimistic about the deal's chances for regulatory approval. The deal needs approval from both the F.C.C. and state regulators. Cablevision expects to complete the acquisition within a year.
"I would simply say that it appears to hold out the prospect of two potential benefits," said John F. O'Mara, the chairman of New York State's Public Service Commission, referring to Cablevision's promises to offer enhanced television services and to enter the commercial and residential telephone market.
"By owning the market it makes it a lot easier to market your service," said Jessica Reif Cohen, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company. "Upgrading now makes more economic sense. If you're going to upgrade a system, it makes much more sense in a dense area."
T.C.I. executives said that their local customers would benefit from becoming Cablevision subscribers.
"We think that a 2.5 million-subscriber footprint will bring greater value to the customers than the alternative" of staying with T.C.I., said Leo J. Hindery, the president of T.C.I.
Direct-broadcast satellite services have won about 5 million customers in recent years and cable television operators, who serve about 65 million customers, have responded by attempting to enhance their offerings and consolidate their operations in limited geographic areas.
"The cable system was built town by town, but what made sense 20 or 30 years ago doesn't necessarily make sense now," said Bruce A. Leichtman, a cable analyst for the Yankee Group, an information technology consulting firm in Boston. "What's happening in the cable industry as a whole is clustering."
A prime selling point of the direct-broadcast satellite services has been their broad menu of sports and movies. Movies sometimes can begin as often as every 15 minutes. Cable has rarely been able to compete. With cable's limited number of channels, it can cater to only so many tastes. But by spending money on new technology, cable operators can increase the number of available channels.
"Now you have on cable one Arnold Schwarzenegger film and one film of busty women and they start every two hours," said Emily Green, an analyst for Forrester Research, a high-technology consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass. "That's an area cable really wants to improve."
But marshaling the technology to provide video on demand, or a movie with a click of a button, has proven more difficult than simply adding channels.
"Video on demand has not proven to be cost-efficient," Mr. Leichtman said. "That probably won't happen so much."
But Cablevision has been aggressive for years. Under its chairman, Charles F. Dolan, and his family -- including James, his youngest son -- Cablevision has grown from its Long Island stronghold to become a fast-moving media company.
Since 1995, the company has spent $860 million to acquire 85 percent of Madison Square Garden, along with the Knicks, the Rangers and the MSG Network.
The latest deal gives the Dolan family its longest reach yet.
"This gives Cablevision one heck of a large cluster in the No. 1 market in America," Mr. Leichtman said.

GRAPHIC: Map of the New York metropolitan area highlighting areas where Cablevision Systems Corporation provides service and also new service areas acquired by Cablevision from TeleCommunications Inc. (pg. B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: CVC (NYSE) (94%); TWX (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (94%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (67%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TELE-COMMUNICATIONS INC; CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP (94%); TIME WARNER INC (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: TELE-COMMUNICATIONS INC; CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; TELEVISION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (94%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (92%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); BROADBAND (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); MODEMS (89%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CITIES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH JAMES L DOLAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997



200 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 25; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: CONGRESS AND TAXES: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA;
Head of House Panel Offers Plan to Help Revive Capital

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9

 BODY:
To stem the steady flow of people leaving the District of Columbia for the cleaner, safer environs of the suburbs, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee proposed a $325 million tax relief plan today for residents and businesses in some parts of the city.
As part of a larger tax-cut proposal to be presented to the committee this week, the chairman, Representative Bill Archer of Texas, has included a plan to cut Federal income taxes for people living in some of the poorest sections of the city and creating tax incentives for new businesses in the same areas. 
 His plan is the latest Federal effort to address what many lawmakers and Clinton Administration officials consider a national embarrassment: the sorry condition of the nation's capital, where power has passed from the elected mayor to a federally appointed financial control board.
The board has prompted change in virtually every municipal agency, but the city continues to suffer from an array of urban ills, including high crime and dilapidated roads and bridges.
Tax relief has been viewed as a way to reverse the trends, by luring people and businesses back to the city, expanding the tax base and providing more money for improved services. Soon after Republicans gained control of Congress in 1994, Speaker Newt Gingrich became an early proponent of the strategy, but Mr. Archer resisted.
Mr. Archer's spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said, "He has never been a big fan of carving out one part of America and giving it a special tax break."
Mr. Fleischer added that the chairman's support came after a request from Mr. Gingrich.
Today, Mr. Archer described his plan as a modest start.
"The single biggest thing the District of Columbia needs to do is create an environment that is healthy for people to live and to work and to educate their children," he said at a news conference.
The proposal would designate "enterprise communities" where residents would pay no more than 10 percent in Federal income tax. Capital gains taxes for certain business properties would be eliminated in these communities. It also calls for a newly created Economic Development Office to provide $75 million in tax credits to Washington businesses.
The plan won the cautious support of the Administration, which has proposed a similar, $300 million economic incentive plan.
Eleanor Holmes Norton, the city's nonvoting delegate to Congress, said that she was encouraged by the Archer plan but that it did not go far enough in creating benefits for middle-class residents. She has proposed capping personal Federal income tax for District residents at 15 percent.
Mr. Archer said his plan would give tax relief "where it will do the most good, to lower-income middle-class people, where we think the District needs the most help."
Raymone Bain, a spokeswoman for Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr., said Mr. Barry favored a plan closer to Mrs. Norton's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (73%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (73%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CITIES (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); MAYORS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); SUBURBS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; ARCHER, BILL (REPR) NEWT GINGRICH (58%); ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997

 
