

401 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; AT WAR; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Gates Offers a Hint That He'll Quit in 2011

BYLINE: By ASHLEY SOUTHALL

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates is looking to step down sometime in 2011.
In an interview with Foreign Policy magazine, Mr. Gates, who was first appointed in 2006 by President George W. Bush, said it would be a ''mistake'' to wait until 2012 to leave. 
''This is not the kind of job you want to fill in the spring of an election year,'' he said.
Mr. Gates's departure, should it come to fruition, would fall in a year in which the Obama administration was pushing a new Pentagon budget that includes cuts in the bureaucracy and overhead - and in a year in which the president has pledged to begin pulling troops from Afghanistan, should conditions warrant.But, as Foreign Policy points out, it's not the first time Mr. Gates, the lone holdover from the Bush administration, has set his eyes on the exit. He had said it was ''inconceivable'' for him to stay past the Bush administration - he even carried around a digital key chain to count down the days until he could leave Washington - before obliging a request by President-elect Obama to stay on board.
Foreign Policy reports:Then came the budget review, in which he was given the leeway to implement many ideas that he'd only talked about under Bush. Then came the Afghanistan review, the results of which would take a while to play out. This summer, he was pushing the budget agenda further, including reforms in weapons contracting (especially the way contractors calculate ''overhead,'' a vaguely defined money magnet that Pentagon gadfly A. Ernest Fitzgerald once called ''the dark side of the moon'') and drastic cuts in the number of military commands around the world (another Cold War relic), which entail similarly drastic cuts in the number of senior officers commanding and staffing them. Gates's goal is to cut $100 billion over the next five years through these sorts of economies. Aides say that he's ''passionate,'' ''revved-up'' and ''stoked'' about the project.Mr. Gates, 66, noted in the interview that only 4 of the 21 previous Defense secretaries have served longer than he has--Robert McNamara, who was closely associated with the Vietnam War; Mr. Gates's immediate predecessor, Donald H. Rumsfeld; Caspar Weinberger, who served under Reagan; and Charles E. Wilson, who served under Eisenhower.
What remains unknown - even to Mr. Gates - is whether President Obama will lean on him again to help finish out the term.
Geoff Morell, the spokesman for the Pentagon, on Monday commented on Gates' interview in an e-mail.
''I'm not sure what the news is here. This is not Secretary Gates announcing his retirement. This is the Secretary musing about when it would make sense for him to finally bow out.''
Mindful that Mr. Gates has previously deferred ''hanging it up for good,'' Mr. Morell advised a reporter ''to wait for a real announcement or better yet wait to see what happens next year.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); VIETNAM WAR (62%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010



402 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Obama Stumps for Democrats and Economic Agenda

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
MILWAUKEE -- President Obama excoriated Congressional Republicans on Monday for seeking to stymie his economic agenda, delivering a harsh critique of what he said was obstructionism that put political calculations ahead of the welfare of average Americans.
In a rousing political speech before a crowd of Wisconsin Democrats who had each paid $250 to hear from their party's leader, Mr. Obama called for a renewed effort to push for his economic agenda this election year.
Deriding his Congressional opponents as the ''no, we can't'' crowd, Mr. Obama called his critics ''more concerned with the next election than the next generation.'' 
The speech came as Mr. Obama began a three-day campaign swing through five states that is intended to shore up the fortunes of Democratic candidates still willing to stand beside him and his deteriorating approval ratings.
Mr. Obama chided Republicans for ''offering the exact same policies that you rejected in 2006 and 2008 because you knew they weren't working.''
The trip combines job-related events and political fund-raising.
At his first stop, Mr. Obama maintained that his economic policies had put the country on the road to a recovery.
''The worst mistake we could make now would be to turn back,'' he told a small crowd of workers at ZBB Energy, a company in Menomonee Falls, Wis., that makes batteries and power systems that use renewable energy. The company received a $1.3 million federal stimulus loan, which officials said would triple its manufacturing capacity and could lead to 80 new jobs.
After touring the plant, Mr. Obama headed to Milwaukee for the fund-raiser, for Mayor Tom Barrett, who is running for governor and trying to keep the office in Democratic hands. Organizers said the event raised about $325,000.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will try to do the same in Ohio for Gov. Ted Strickland, a Democrat in a tight re-election race. The White House has already sent other officials to campaign for Mr. Strickland, including Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
The fight for the Midwestern governorships is important because the new crop of governors will play a big role next year as state legislatures take up the fight over Congressional redistricting that comes along once every decade. The results in the Midwest will also help to define crucial party organizing efforts leading up to the 2012 presidential campaign in some of the bigger states, including Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio and Wisconsin.
At the fund-raiser, attended by 1,300 people, Mr. Barrett acknowledged that the economy was still struggling. ''All of us recognize that we still have a long way to go,'' he said. But he added, ''We all need to remember the direction this country was falling when President Obama took over.''
Mr. Barrett shot to national attention last year when he was injured after intervening to help a woman and her grandchild in a domestic dispute with a young man near the Wisconsin State Fair.
Mr. Obama referred to the incident on Monday, saying: ''I've heard stories about mayors. I've never heard of a mayor who risked his life to respond to an actual cry for help. That is some serious customer service from this man right here.''
Mr. Obama's ability -- or inability -- to help here will be crucial in forecasting his own chances in 2012. Even as Mr. Barrett was preparing to introduce the president, he emphasized his independent credentials. ''If you're looking for the ideologue in this race, it's not me,'' Mr. Barrett said. ''The problems of this state will not be solved by bumper-sticker slogans.''
Even before Air Force One had touched down in Milwaukee on Monday, statewide Republicans were playing down the chances that the president, whose approval ratings have fallen in recent months, would be helpful.
The Associated Press reported that the state Republican chairman, Reince Priebus, said Monday that Mr. Obama's visit would hurt local Democrats. Mr. Priebus said that an $810 million high-speed train, to be built with federal stimulus money between Madison and Milwaukee, is an example of the kind of irresponsible spending that has upset Wisconsin residents.
The deputy White House press secretary, Bill Burton, took issue with the characterization of the high-speed train as a boondoggle.
''I'm not an expert on transportation issues,'' Mr. Burton told reporters aboard Air Force One to Wisconsin. ''But I do think that these grants -- the investments that we've made on renewable energy, on infrastructure -- are helping to make our economy stronger and are helping to create an environment where jobs are being created and people getting back to work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On the first day of a three-day campaign swing, President Obama spoke on Monday at a fund-raising event in Milwaukee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); FUNDRAISING (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); REDISTRICTING (73%); PLANT CAPACITY (64%); BATTERY MFG (64%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (64%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%)

COMPANY: ZBB ENERGY CORP (54%)

TICKER: ZBB (NYSE MKT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); TED STRICKLAND (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010



403 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: No 'Graceful Exit'

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
In his book, ''The Promise,'' about President Obama's first year in office, Jonathan Alter describes a brief conversation between the president and Vice President Joe Biden that took place last November at the end of Mr. Obama's long deliberation about what to do in Afghanistan.
Mr. Biden asked whether the new policy of beginning a significant withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan in 2011 was a direct presidential order that could not be countermanded by the military. The president said yes. 
The two men were on their way to a meeting in the Oval Office with members of the Pentagon brass who would be tasked with carrying out Mr. Obama's orders. Among those at the meeting was Gen. David Petraeus, then the chief of the United States Central Command, which included oversight of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. According to Mr. Alter, the president said to General Petraeus:
''David, tell me now. I want you to be honest with me. You can do this in eighteen months?''
Mr. Petraeus replied: ''Sir, I'm confident we can train and hand over to the A.N.A. [Afghan National Army] in that time frame.''
The president went on: ''If you can't do the things you say you can in eighteen months, then no one is going to suggest we stay, right?''
''Yes, sir, in agreement,'' said General Petraeus.
Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was also at the meeting, and he added his own crisp, ''Yes, sir.''
That was then. The brass was just blowing smoke, telling the commander in chief whatever it was that he wanted to hear. Over the past several days, at meetings with one news media outlet after another, General Petraeus has been singing a decidedly different song. The lead headline in The Times on Monday said: ''General Opposes a Rapid Pullout in Afghanistan.''
Having taken over command of U.S. forces in Afghanistan after the ouster of Gen. Stanley McChrystal, Mr. Petraeus is now saying he did not take that job in order to preside over a ''graceful exit.'' His goal now appears to be to rally public opinion against the very orders that President Obama insisted, as he told Joe Biden, could not be countermanded.
Who's in charge here?
The truth is that we have no idea how the president really feels about the deadline he imposed for beginning a troop withdrawal. It always seemed peculiar to telegraph the start of a troop pullout while fighting (in this case, escalating) a war. And Mr. Obama has always been careful to ratchet up the ambiguity quotient by saying the start of any withdrawal would depend on conditions on the ground.
Anyone who has been paying attention knows that conditions on the ground right now are awful, so it looks as though we're going to be there for a long, long while.
This is a terrible thing to contemplate because in addition to the human toll (nearly half of all the American troop deaths in Afghanistan have occurred since Mr. Obama took office), the war is a giant roadblock in the way of efforts to deal effectively with deteriorating economic and social conditions here in the United States.
Look around at the economy, the public school system, the federal budget deficits, the fiscal conditions plaguing America's state and local governments. We are giving short shrift to all of these problems and more while pouring staggering amounts of money (the rate is now scores of billions of dollars a year) into a treacherous, unforgiving and hopelessly corrupt sinkhole in Afghanistan.
(I stand in awe of the heights of hypocrisy scaled by conservative politicians and strategists who demand that budget deficits be brought under control while cheering the escalation in Afghanistan and calling for ever more tax cuts here at home.)
The reason you hear so little about Lyndon Johnson nowadays despite his stupendous achievements -- Medicare, Medicaid, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 -- is that Vietnam laid his reputation low. Johnson's war on poverty was derailed by Vietnam, and it was Vietnam that tragically split the Democratic Party and opened the door to the antiwar candidacies of Eugene McCarthy and Robert Kennedy. The ultimate beneficiaries, of course, were Richard Nixon and the Republicans.
President Obama does not buy the comparison of Afghanistan to Vietnam, and he has a point when he says that the U.S. was not attacked from Vietnam. But Sept. 11, 2001, was nearly a decade ago, and the war in Afghanistan was hopelessly bungled by the Bush crowd. There is no upside to President Obama's escalation of this world-class fiasco.
We are never going to build a stable, flourishing society in Afghanistan. What we desperately need is a campaign of nation-building to counteract the growing instability and deterioration in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ARMIES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); MCCHRYSTAL RESIGNATION (73%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (89%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010



404 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Are Poverty Tours Demeaning?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Slumdog Tourism,'' by Kennedy Odede (Op-Ed, Aug. 10):
I disagree with Mr. Odede's points about what he considers the exploitative nature of slum tourism. My junior year of college, I chose to study abroad in Ghana. When I first arrived, I suffered many of the same symptoms Mr. Odede suggests -- gawking, picture taking and a sense of relief that I could go home after five months. But after living there, and taking time to really get to know the Ghanaian people, I grasped a reality that most Americans overlook.
Did I come back wanting to change the world? Yes. Was that realistic? Probably not. But what my experience abroad did provide me with was the tools to challenge people on poverty issues, which Mr. Odede claims does not happen enough. 
I'm not arguing that poverty will disappear because of tourism. But if more people chose to travel outside of common and ''safe'' destinations, that's when the conversation about poverty would really begin.
Mallory Shelter Arlington, Va., Aug. 10, 2010
The writer is a recent graduate of Syracuse University.
To the Editor:
As a professor who recently took students on a study tour of India, I share Kennedy Odede's concerns about slum tourism. Such tours showing how ''those people'' live can be simplistic and voyeuristic, not to mention dehumanizing. But I felt that exposure to the realities of urban poverty in Mumbai was an important part of introducing my students to life in India.
Our guides from Reality Tours and Travel showed us the challenges of life in the slums and the many ways that the residents support themselves through recycling, small industry and education. They forbid photography and work with residents to help protect their dignity. My students came home with a better understanding of global poverty and a better awareness of poverty here at home.
While such tours raise a host of potential problems, I believe that done right, this sort of interaction can create life-changing experiences for all travelers.
(Rev.) Jonathan David Lawrence Buffalo, Aug. 10, 2010
The writer is an associate professor of religious studies and theology at Canisius College.
To the Editor:
Kennedy Odede has a right to his outrage and anger at ''slumdog tourism.'' But there is another version of how many Westerners experience the developing world.
For the last dozen or so years, my wife, daughter and I have gone to many remote spots in Asia, Africa and South America. At first, we started off as tourists, perhaps doing some of the things that Mr. Odede rightfully views as exploitative.
But as you see more and more in the world, there is a gradual shift from tourist to traveler -- the traveler being the one who wants to give rather than receive, who seeks empathy and understanding, who shuns vicarious experience and who wants to find a way to bridge the social and economic gaps that divide people.
Even with the vast gaps of culture and wealth in the world, we have found that all people, regardless of status, love their children and families, have incredible generosity of spirit, and love to laugh.
I remember a company we traveled with whose motto was ''accept cultural differences with grace.'' Once we learned to relate those words to our actual experience, it made all the difference.
Many tourists really do not understand that they are as much the observed as the observer. Even though there can be mistakes at first, the journey from tourist to traveler is well worth taking.
Bob Kagan Narberth, Pa., Aug. 10, 2010
To the Editor:
To assert that voyeurism rather than altruism is the driving force behind ''slum tourism'' is to dismiss the impact of seeing poverty. The International Housing Coalition seeks to educate the international donor community and developing country governments about the importance of providing more assistance to urban and slum areas.
We have learned that the members of Congress who are most supportive of giving more attention to the problems of slums and urban development are those who have visited slums and have been exposed to their conditions.
Tours of Kibera or Dharavi alone will not address the suffering of residents. But they can generate the political will and empathy that are necessary for any serious commitment to effective solutions. If more people were exposed to the plight of the urban poor, more progress could be made.
Robert Dubinsky Chief Executive International Housing Coalition Washington, Aug. 11, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SAM FRIEDMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WRITERS (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (77%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (67%); RELIGION (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (66%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%) INDIA (93%); GHANA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (72%); AFRICA (58%); ASIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



405 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: A Quest To Make The Morgan Seaworthy

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
MYSTIC, Conn. -- The shipbuilders are long dead, their knowledge gone. The shipyard no longer exists. No blueprints survive, nor ship's models.
But the Charles W. Morgan is still here -- the world's last surviving wooden whaling vessel, built in 1841. And restorers are spending $10 million to turn the museum piece into a working ship able to ply the unruly sea. They plan to sail the ship on its first voyage in nearly a century, opening a new chapter in its long career.
Built in New Bedford, Mass., a bustling port known as the whaling capital of the world, the Morgan sailed the globe for eight decades in pursuit of leviathans, escaping fire and cannibals, Confederate raiders and Arctic ice. She brought home thousands of barrels of whale oil that lighted homes and cities. She also delivered tons of baleen, the horny material from the mouths of certain whales that was made into buggy whips and corset stays. In 1941, its centenary, the Morgan was towed to Mystic Seaport for museum display and in 1966 was named a national historic landmark.
To learn as much as possible about the old ship and ensure its successful restoration, the specialists here are turning to the art and science of imaging. 
They are deploying lasers and portable X-ray machines, laptops and forensic specialists, cameras and recorders, historians and graphic artists to tease out hidden details of the ship's construction and condition. The project, begun in 2008, is producing a revealing portrait. It shows the exact placement and status of many thousands of planks, ribs, beams, nails, reinforcing pins, wooden pegs and other vital parts of the Morgan, giving shipwrights a high-tech guide for the rebuilding of the historic vessel.
''When we're done, she'll be as strong or stronger as the last time she went to sea,'' Quentin Snediker, director of the shipyard here, said during a restoration tour. ''So why not sail her?''
Minutes later, a specialist was firing X-rays through the ship's keel -- a massive oak spine composed of several timbers, its length more than 90 feet. He was hunting for the large bronze pins that hold the keel together. The restorers want to assess the so-called drift pins 169 years after their installation and plan to replace or reinforce those that show deterioration. The pins are between one and two feet long.
In a more sweeping assessment, specialists have sent laser beams racing across the Morgan, inside and out, seeking to record inconspicuous details and form a digital archive of exact measurements. The laser scans can track details as small as an eighth of an inch and have swept the entire ship across its 114-foot length and 28-foot width -- once a cramped home to a crew of 35.
The scans have produced ''millions of points of information'' and a wealth of three-dimensional images, said Kane Borden, research coordinator of the restoration. ''The results are pretty spectacular to look at.''
Historians here say the restoration, for all its high-tech sophistication, is fundamentally about remembering and honoring the past. The Morgan is the last representative of a fleet of 2,700 American whaling vessels that put the young country on the map and nourished its growing economy. The industry was so important that the whaling life became a distinctive part of the American experience.
''The scope and scale of it is something that people have no idea of today,'' said Matthew Stackpole, a Mystic Seaport official. ''It was the first time the U.S. presence was felt around the world.''
The Morgan was built in the shipyard of Jethro and Zachariah Hillman and named after Charles Waln Morgan, a Philadelphia Quaker who was its first main owner. The year of its inaugural voyage, 1841, also marked the departure from New Bedford of another ship, carrying an aspiring author by the name of Herman Melville. His whaling experience resulted in ''Moby Dick,'' and his realistic portrayals of the industry gave it new visibility and status.
The Morgan completed 37 voyages from her home ports of New Bedford and San Francisco and sailed farther than any other American whaler, according to historians. Near a remote Pacific isle, the crew took up firearms to fend off canoes full of cannibals.
Captains could bring along their wives, and two of them served as expert navigators. The logs of Charlotte Church, the wife of Capt. Charles S. Church, who sailed on the Morgan from 1909 to 1913, recorded not only latitude, longitude, heading, distance and barometric pressure but the death of a pet cat.
Dry humor marked her entries. ''We have two live pigs, one rooster, four cats and almost twenty canary bird -- no fear of starving for a while.''
The ship's great luck in escaping from serious threats translated into bad luck for whales. Over the decades, the ship's harpooners took in more than 2,500 of the behemoths to dismember their carcasses and boil their blubber down into more than 50,000 barrels of oil. Whales were the petroleum wells of the day.
''We're not apologizing for the past,'' Mr. Stackpole, the seaport official, said of the hunt. ''But we have to understand what happened and do better,'' especially in protecting whales threatened with extinction because of the long decades of concentrated whaling.
On a beautiful day in late July, the restoration shipyard here was alive with specialists. Some cut wood in the sawmill. The tons of replacement timbers include some carved from colossal hunks of live oak salvaged after Hurricane Katrina in 2005 uprooted many trees along the Gulf Coast.
The Morgan rested high and dry on supporting beams, stripped of masts and most gear. Experts scrutinized her for construction details to add to the growing library.
Bill Movalson, an official with Allpro Imaging, a company in Melville, N.Y., that makes portable X-ray machines, took aim at the thick keel.
''Stand back,'' he advised.
The X-ray source, mounted on a tripod and looking like a large video camera, emitted a series of beeps and then a continuous hum.
Mr. Movalson stepped behind the keel to retrieve the exposed plate, which he fed into a small machine. It read the plate by a method known as computed radiography, using lasers and electronics rather than chemicals to uncover the invisible. In a few seconds, a ghostly image appeared on his laptop screen.
''We got it,'' Mr. Movalson said, pointing to the image of a bronze drift pin. ''Look, it's all eaten away right at the seam.'' Decades of exposure to seawater had corroded the pin at the area where it connected the keel to a protective timber known as the false keel.
''This is what we'd expect,'' Mr. Snediker, the shipyard director, said while examining the image. He added that the discovery of the corrosion ''validates the technique,'' showing that the X-ray exposures are sensitive enough to distinguish faulty drift pins from those that show no deterioration.
Mr. Snediker said the project was seeking to harness every conceivable tool and method ''to learn as much as we can.'' The restorers are even recording the comments of shipwrights who dismantle old wooden structures in an effort to capture subtle insights into ship construction.
''We get layer upon layer of information,'' he said. The least technical of the methods centers on a group of young artists who are sketching the various stages of the Morgan's disassembly and repair. ''It's great to see it through their eyes,'' Mr. Snediker said.
Nearby was the project's headquarters, lodged in ramshackle offices full of files, papers and computers. At his desk, Mr. Borden, the research coordinator, showed how a computer served as the library for the accumulated information. A blueprint-style image of the Morgan glowed on his computer screen, as did a series of X-ray icons.
''You can zoom in,'' Mr. Borden said, clicking on one. The underlying image revealed a central joint.
If all goes as planned, the refurbished Morgan will be outfitted with new rigging in late 2012.
And the next year, in early summer, if the weather proves fair, the whaler will pull away from the granite pier at the seaport and once again sail with the wind at her back, rocking though the waves, making history. The goal is to visit places along the New England Coast of special significance to whaling, like New Bedford.
''She's the last of her kind,'' Mr. Stackpole said of the Morgan. ''We want her to be a living issue rather than a dusty old artifact,'' her voyages a new page in the story of American whaling.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption last Tuesday about the restoration of a whaling ship, the Charles W. Morgan, misidentified the year the Morgan arrived in Mystic, Conn. It was 1941, as noted in the article, not 1966.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AT REST IN CONNECTICUT: The Charles W. Morgan, built in 1841, has been docked in Mystic, Conn., since 1966. The Morgan sailed the globe for eight decades in pursuit of leviathans, escaping fire and cannibals, Confederate raiders and Arctic ice. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HARRY R. FELDMAN INC
DENNIS A MURPHY/MYSTIC SEAPORT) (D1)
 A RETURN TO THE SEA: An X-ray generator is part of the technology being used to examine the Morgan's structure. The radiography images are used to aid in repairs. Bill Movalson, above, is an imaging specialist on the project. Wood from the ribs of the ship has been replaced. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (90%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); WHALING (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); HISTORY (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); VISUAL ARTS (66%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (65%); FORENSICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) ARCTIC (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



406 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1155 words

PERSON: James J. Kilpatrick 

HEADLINE: James J. Kilpatrick, Conservative Voice, Dies at 89

BYLINE: By RICHARD GOLDSTEIN

 BODY:
James J. Kilpatrick, a prominent conservative voice for half a century as a newspaper editor and columnist, author and television personality, died Sunday in Washington. He was 89.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Marianne Means.
Mr. Kilpatrick was a prolific writer and a sharp debater, perhaps best remembered for his intellectual combat with the liberal journalist Shana Alexander on ''60 Minutes.'' When he was not tackling national issues, he took aim at flabby prose and bureaucratic absurdities.
In the mid-1950s, Mr. Kilpatrick became something of a national figure, articulating constitutional arguments justifying the policy of ''massive resistance'' to the Supreme Court's decision outlawing school segregation. But as the South changed, so did Mr. Kilpatrick, who dropped his fervent defense of segregation a decade later.
Writing in Nation's Business magazine in 1978, Mr. Kilpatrick defined his ideological stance. 
''Conservatives believe that a civilized society demands orders and classes, that men are not inherently equal, that change and reform are not identical, that in a free society men are children of God and not wards of the state,'' he wrote.
''Self-reliance is a conservative principle,'' he continued. ''The work ethic is a conservative ethic. The free marketplace is vital to the conservative's economic philosophy.''
James Jackson Kilpatrick was born on Nov. 1, 1920, in Oklahoma City, and grew up there as the son of a lumber dealer. He received a degree in journalism from the University of Missouri and was hired as a reporter by The Richmond News Leader of Virginia in 1941.
An energetic newsman, he became a favorite of Douglas Southall Freeman, the paper's longtime editor, and was named its chief editorial writer in 1949, when Mr. Freeman retired. Mr. Kilpatrick was appointed the paper's editor in 1951.
Two years later, he persuaded the governor of Virginia to grant a pardon to a black handyman serving a life sentence for killing a police officer. A News Leader investigation he led had concluded that the man was falsely charged.
Mr. Kilpatrick's views on the larger issue of race came to the fore after the Supreme Court's 1954 Brown decision outlawing school segregation. In a series of editorials, he provided a framework for Southern politicians resisting the court's decision.
Mr. Kilpatrick popularized the doctrine called interposition, according to which individual states had the constitutional duty to interpose their separate sovereignties against federal court rulings that went beyond their rightful powers and, if necessary, to nullify them, an argument traced to the writings of Thomas Jefferson, James Madison and John C. Calhoun.
He debated on television with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and wrote on race and states' rights in ''The Sovereign States: Notes of a Citizen of Virginia'' (Regnery, 1957) and ''The Southern Case for School Segregation'' (Crowell-Collier, 1962).
At times, Mr. Kilpatrick went beyond constitutional arguments. In 1963, he drafted an article for The Saturday Evening Post with the proposed title ''The Hell He Is Equal,'' in which he wrote that ''the Negro race, as a race, is in fact an inferior race.''
As recounted in ''The Race Beat'' by Gene Roberts and Hank Klibanoff (Knopf, 2006), the magazine's senior editor, Thomas B. Congdon Jr., decided not to publish the article after four black girls were killed in the Birmingham, Ala., church bombing. Mr. Congdon viewed Mr. Kilpatrick's article as in ''bad taste'' and ''inflammatory.''
Mr. Kilpatrick ultimately acknowledged that segregation was a lost cause and re-examined his earlier defense of it.
''I was brought up a white boy in Oklahoma City in the 1920s and 1930,'' he told Time magazine in 1970. ''I accepted segregation as a way of life. Very few of us, I suspect, would like to have our passions and profundities at age 28 thrust in our faces at 50.''
Apart from surveying the national scene, Mr. Kilpatrick exposed overbearing local laws and judicial rulings.
His campaign got under way in 1959, when a pedestrian who climbed across the hood of a car that had blocked a downtown Richmond intersection was hauled into court by the driver, an off-duty policeman, and fined $25 for malicious mischief. That inspired Mr. Kilpatrick to create the Beadle Bumble Fund, named for the Dickens character in ''Oliver Twist'' who proclaimed ''the law is a ass.''
The fund, Mr. Kilpatrick said, was devoted to ''poking fun and spoofing the hell out of despots on the bench.'' It paid the fines of victims of legal travesties in the Richmond area with contributions from readers.
Mr. Kilpatrick railed against turgid prose in ''The Writer's Art'' (Andrews, McMeel and Parker, 1984). In his ''On Language'' column for The New York Times Magazine, William Safire wrote that Mr. Kilpatrick's essays on ''the vagaries of style are classics.''
Mr. Kilpatrick left The News Leader in 1966 after embarking on a column for the Washington Star Syndicate, ''A Conservative View,'' which was carried by newspapers throughout the country. Writing later for Universal Press Syndicate, which took over the Washington Star Syndicate, he continued ''A Conservative View'' until 1993, when he began a weekly column ''Covering the Courts.'' He ended that column in January 2008 and discontinued his other remaining column, ''The Writer's Art,'' in January 2009.
In the 1970s, he sparred with Nicholas von Hoffman and later with Ms. Alexander on the ''Point-Counterpoint'' segment of ''60 Minutes.'' The Kilpatrick-Alexander clashes on issues like the Vietnam War and the women's movement were parodied on TV's ''Saturday Night Live'' by Dan Aykroyd and Jane Curtin. Mr. Aykroyd would proclaim, ''Jane, you ignorant slut,'' and Ms. Curtin would reply, ''Dan, you pompous ass.''
While based in Washington, Mr. Kilpatrick owned a home in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia. His columns with a Scrabble, Va., dateline extolled the joys of rustic life.
His first wife, the former Marie Louise Pietri, died in 1997.
In addition to his wife, Ms. Means, a Washington columnist whom he married in 1998, Mr. Kilpatrick is survived by three sons, Sean, Kevin and Christopher; four stepdaughters, Melissa Dunning, Sally Weaver Lee, Annie Buck and Carolyn Fenn; seven grandchildren; nine stepgrandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
At his country home, Mr. Kilpatrick flew two flags, the Stars and Stripes and another alongside it that seemed to embody his views on the rights of individuals confronting the powers of the state. That flag, from the era of the American Revolution, bore the image of a snake and the inscription ''Don't Tread on Me.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 16, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An earlier version of this article misstated the name of the fund Mr. Kilpatrick created to help pay the fines of victims of legal travesties. It is the Beadle Bumble Fund, not the Beatle Bumble Fund.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James J. Kilpatrick testifying on April 1, 1965, in Washington when he was editor of The Richmond News Leader. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENRY GRIFFIN/ ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (90%); ETHICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); RACE & RACISM (88%); LIBERAL MEDIA (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); HEART DISEASE (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (72%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); SENTENCING (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); PARDONS (61%)

COMPANY: NATION'S BUSINESS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (91%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010



407 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Questions Linger as Shrimp Season Opens in Gulf

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN; Robbie Brown contributed reporting from Atlanta.

 BODY:
ABOARD THE KRISTY MISTY, in the Gulf of Mexico -- Well before dawn on Monday, Nicky Alfonso set out down Bayou Terre aux Boeufs in his 38-foot shrimping boat, heading for open water.
It was the first day of the first white shrimp season in Louisiana since the BPoil spill, and normally there would have been enough boats to make for a crowded, competitive rodeo of a day.
But as the sky lightened over Breton Sound, there were more questions about the future of the once-mighty gulf seafood industry than there were boats bobbing on the water. The industry, which provides a way of life for hundreds of Cajun, Isleno, Creole and Vietnamese families, has been plagued by the questions: Would there be any shrimp? Would it be safe? Would anyone buy it? Would anyone eat it? 
Mr. Alfonso, 45 and a shrimper since he graduated from high school, said there was one question more important than the rest. ''The point is not to come out here and fill this boat full of shrimp,'' he said. ''It's to know there's something out here that will multiply. It's our future.''
For the moment, shrimp industry officials are more worried about the consumer confidence that underlies a whole network of fishermen, ice makers, processors and distributors. Shrimp alone in Louisiana is worth more than $100 million a year.
Ewell Smith, the executive director of the Louisiana Seafood Promotion and Marketing Board, said that after the Exxon Valdez oil spill in 1989, Alaska seafood producers ''spent $10 million a year for 10 years rebuilding their brand.''
In a test run on Friday, shrimpers found no sign of oil on their nets or shrimp, Mr. Smith said, but shrimpers had trouble finding buyers.
Louisiana has asked BP for $450 million to pay for continued testing of seafood and a marketing campaign over two decades, and requested that the federal and local agencies that have been testing fish, shrimp, crabs and oysters report the results in one central location, Mr. Smith said.
''We need to bore the consumer with good news,'' he said. ''This is probably the most tested food source there is in the U.S. and will be for quite some time.''
The Food and Drug Administration said that all seafood samples had tested below the level of concern for health risks from petroleum compounds, and that it was developing a test for dispersants in food. Only 2 of 2,500 water samples have tested positive for dispersants, it said.
The state has asked BP to finance a program seafood officials are calling Back to the Dock, which would pay shrimpers a 30 percent premium for their product to rebuild the steady supply the industry needs.
Shrimp prices spiked after the oil spill began because customers were worried about running out, but they have been falling rapidly since mid-June, according to Urner Barry, a company that tracks market data. ''The market is weak,'' said Paul B. Brown Jr., its president. ''Nobody knows what the demand is going to be.''
Keath Ladner, the owner of Gulf Shores Sea Products in Lakeshore, Miss., a distributor, said it would be ''economically irresponsible'' for the 70 boats he usually buys shrimp from to go out. His biggest customer, which buys two million pounds of shrimp a year, had canceled its entire order.
''The sentiment in the country is that the seafood in the gulf is tainted,'' Mr. Ladner said. ''People are scared of it right now.''
But on Monday morning the easygoing Mr. Alfonso, at least, was ready to shift into high gear. At 6 a.m., the official start time, he was suddenly everywhere in his plastic clogs, speed-walking from the trawl nets to the winches, kneeling on the fiberglass deck of the Kristy Misty, which he built and named after his daughters, and finally lowering the skimmer nets, one on each side of the boat, into the water.
He did not relax, but peered at them anxiously, watching for the spritz of a shrimp darting from the water. ''I want to see them jump,'' he said. ''Jump, jump, jump.''
As he worked, Mr. Alfonso explained his view that the main factor affecting the shrimp's behavior this year was not the oil but the large amounts of fresh water that had been diverted from the Mississippi River to push oil away from the marshes. It had also pushed the shrimp away, disrupting the marshes' normal temperature and salinity. That made them harder to catch.
Instead of running together, he said, the shrimp were dispersed. ''See how we ain't seeing no shrimp jump?'' he asked. ''That's not good.''
He added, ''There's too much stuff disturbed them. The shrimp out here don't know which way to run because of that fresh water.''
The radio buzzed. ''Lucky Dog?'' a fellow shrimper inquired, using one of Mr. Alfonso's nicknames.
He answered using the slang term for shrimp, ''I'm looking for some bugs, but I ain't seen too many yet. Whatever it is, it is. At least we're out here.''
Mr. Alfonso would customarily spend $800 on ice and diesel, but he had spent only half that, because he was unsure what the return on his investment would be. He said that there was one dock buying shrimp in his hometown, Delacroix Island, and that it was selling to the one seafood processor still open.
When it was time to haul up the nets, they hung like two heavy, squirming pendulums, streaming with water. Mr. Alfonso released the ties, sending the pile skidding onto the deck, and began shoveling the sardines, crabs and other bycatch right off the edge into the water. The pale shrimp smelled briny and fresh. All told, he had about 80 pounds of shrimp from the first drag -- not nearly the hundreds of pounds per drag that are customary on the first day of the season, but not the worst Mr. Alfonso had seen.
''This crop of shrimp here, in a month they should be laying eggs again in the inside waters. I doubt if they're going to do it,'' he said. Then he picked up a couple of baby shrimp and held them in his palm before tossing them back. ''This,'' he said, ''is what we need to see.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nicky Alfonso with a shrimp catch Monday. ''It's to know there's something out here that will multiply,'' he said. ''It's our future.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUSTACEANS (91%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); SEAFOOD (89%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (89%); SHELLFISH FISHING (89%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (77%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010



408 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: With Luxury Hotel-Apartment Complex, Williamsburg Continues Its Evolution

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Glassy towers already line the waterfront, and shiny new European cars snuggle the curbs. But the transformation of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, from gritty blue-collar redoubt to trendy nocturnal playground is taking another leap forward with the development of high-end apartments and a boutique hotel where guests can check in at the bar.
The project -- a pair of six-story condominium buildings and a 64-room hotel running from North 11th to North 12th Streets near McCarren Park -- is being marketed as the first development in the area to combine luxury apartment living with access to hotel amenities. Once the project's Hotel Williamsburg opens, as early as March, residents of the condominium buildings will be able to lounge at the hotel pool or rooftop bar, order an in-home massage or have the concierge book a table at Nobu. 
The 57 apartments, which are on sale from about $446,500 for a one-bedroom unit to $1.6 million for three bedrooms, will come with fancy finishes: appliances from both Bosch and Liebherr, Brazilian walnut flooring and a programmable system that allows residents to remotely control lighting, temperature, sound, surveillance and even the drapes with a computer or mobile device. One of the developers uses that technology in his own apartment to chase his cat with an automatic vacuum cleaner from his office, said Jennifer Lee, director of new business development at aptsandlofts.com, which is marketing the condos.
The Residences at the Williamsburg are not scheduled to be finished until late October; contracts have been taken out on 17 of the apartments since the property went on the market in late June.
''With all the condos on the market, this is a really unique concept,'' Ms. Lee said.
Indeed, Williamsburg has continued to change despite the recession, the banks that are leery of lending and the number of construction sites gone dark. More than a quarter of the 292 Brooklyn developments reported as stalled by the city's Department of Buildings are in the area's community district.
The residential real estate market in north Brooklyn, which includes Williamsburg and Greenpoint, is dominated by luxury condominiums, sales of which have been rising. Both the number of apartments sold and the price per square foot were higher in the second quarter of this year than in the first, and higher than the same period last year, according to a market report by Miller Samuel, a New York appraisal and consulting company.
The higher prices reflect a shift toward buying larger apartments, said Jonathan Miller, the company's president, adding that the area had increased its share of the overall Brooklyn market in the last quarter.
''Things are improving,'' Mr. Miller said. ''But there's still a long way to go.''
In other words, Williamsburg may still be a place of backyard clotheslines and old-timers greeting passers-by on the street, but with swaths of gray-brick-and-chrome apartment buildings snaking through the area's low-rise buildings, perhaps not for much longer.
''The neighborhood has been changing drastically, and it seems like every year or two there's a quantum leap in the change,'' said Ward Dennis, co-chairman of the board of Neighbors Allied for Good Growth, a volunteer community-planning group. ''If you're not paying attention, you turn around one day and it's a completely different place.''
Those changes have been under way for at least a decade, Mr. Dennis said, though a major rezoning in 2005 pushed them into overdrive, encouraging developers to build enormous towers on the waterfront and more modest apartment buildings in the interior.
The coming of a destination hotel like the Williamsburg was perhaps inevitable in a neighborhood where hotels can be built on old manufacturing plots without a rezoning or variance. One boutique hotel, Le Jolie, is already open on a stretch near the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, as hoteliers seek to capitalize on the neighborhood's increasingly young, well-heeled population.
''It's not just inhabited by a bunch of hipsters, but now you're starting to see a stroller city,'' said Benjamin Graves, president of Graves World Hospitality, a Minneapolis company that is on the development team and will operate the hotel. He sees his property as doing for Williamsburg ''what the Gansevoort did for the meatpacking district or the Rivington did for the Lower East Side, which was to solidify the neighborhood.''
Mr. Graves, whose first New York property is an extended-stay hotel due to open in November at 48th Street and Eighth Avenue in Manhattan, said he expected the Williamsburg project to attract people who wanted the convenience of mass transit -- it is close to the L train -- as well as the cachet of a vibrant neighborhood that is not a traditional tourist zone. Despite its four bars, the hotel will have a sophisticated lounge feel, rather than a pounding nightclub environment, Mr. Graves said.
How it will interact with the neighborhood remains to be seen. The eating and drinking spaces will be open to the public -- though residents and hotel guests will get preferred access -- and hotel executives are still working out policies for the pool, an amenity made all the more desirable by the city's slow pace in rehabilitating the one at McCarren Park, which is not expected to reopen until 2012.
Still, the hotel was welcomed with a certain resignation in at least one corner of the neighborhood.
Steve Ehresman, a bartender and manager at the Turkey's Nest, a bar just steps from the development, said he was not worried about competition from the hotel's rooftop bar, because he serves $4, 32-ounce draft beers. ''Up on the roof it will be high-priced drinks and crazy people,'' he said.
Mr. Ehresman, 51, expressed surprise that guests would want to spend upward of $300 a night to wake up to a view of ''middle-aged softball players like me'' on the cement courts across the street. But he added, ''You know, the more things they build around me, the busier I get.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 17 about a condominium and hotel development in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, referred imprecisely to a company involved in the project, Graves World Hospitality. It is on the development team and will operate the hotel, but is not the lead developer. (That is KM Construction and Development Group.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rendering of a new development in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, with condominiums on the left and a boutique hotel on the right. At left, a rendering of the lobby of the Hotel Williamsburg, where guests will be able to check in at the bar. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY APTSANDLOFTS.COM
 STUDIO GAIA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL AMENITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); MARKET SHARE (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



409 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and South Korea Start New Joint Drills

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- Tens of thousands of South Korean and United States troops began a new round of war games on Monday, as North Korea threatened a ''merciless counterblow'' amid heightened tensions on the Korean Peninsula.
The drills are the South's third major exercise -- the second conducted with the United States -- since the sinking of a South Korean warship in the spring for which the South blamed the North. 
The 11-day drills are the largest annual joint United States-South Korean military exercises. This year they involve 56,000 South Koreans and 30,000 Americans in South Korea and abroad, some of them working on computer simulations.
As a parallel exercise, 400,000 South Korean government employees undertake a civil defense drill, which this year will include a simulated terrorist attack ahead of the G-20 summit meeting to be held in Seoul in November.
The North routinely calls the drills warmongering and accuses South Korea and its American ally of preparing for an invasion. North Korea has for years pursued nuclear weapons for what it describes as a deterrent to foreign attacks.
This year the North took action in addition to its belligerent statements, firing 110 artillery shells on a disputed western sea border with the South last Monday. South Korea belatedly revealed that some of the rounds fell south of the disputed sea border, but its military did not respond despite previous vows to do so.
The joint drills that began Monday are called Ulchi Freedom Guardian, in honor of a Korean general from the seventh century who Korean historians say routed a Chinese invasion.
On Monday, President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea repeated his country's stance that the drills were defensive.
''Our Ulchi exercises are for peace and for deterring war,'' he was quoted as saying while presiding over a cabinet meeting in an underground bunker at the presidential Blue House. ''Only when we are thoroughly prepared can we prevent war and defend peace.''
Mr. Lee and other cabinet members were all dressed in pea-green uniforms, as is the custom during their civil defense exercises.
South Koreans have grown used to repeated North Korean threats of ''sea of fire'' or ''nuclear holocaust'' -- so much so that such language no longer attracts much attention here, despite the recent increase in tension. At the same time, there is a growing fear in Seoul that North Korea's leadership may be increasingly confident that its nuclear arsenal will allow it to engage in military provocations with impunity.
In addition, some United States officials have suggested that North Korea may be engaged in a new wave of aggression as its leader, Kim Jong-il, tries to establish credentials for his youngest son as a possible successor. Mr. Kim suffered a stroke in 2008; the son, Kim Jong-un, is believed to be in his late 20s.
North Korea's propaganda artists have manufactured large volumes of portraits and badges bearing the son's image, reported Open Radio for North Korea, a Web site based in Seoul that gathers news from sources inside the North. It also said that all North Koreans are required to keep the portraits of Kim Jong-il and his father, President Kim Il-sung, on a wall of their homes and now must wear a Kim Il-sung pin -- or less often, a Kim Jong-il pin -- on their chest.
The new Kim Jong-un badges may be distributed to party officials early next month, when North Korea has said it would convene a large meeting of party members in the capital, Pyongyang. Officials in Seoul said they could not confirm the report.
Also on Monday, the government-run research group Korea Development Institute revealed a report prepared for President Lee that said that it would cost South Korea $2.1 trillion over 30 years to absorb North Korea if the North Korean government suddenly collapsed with the death of Kim Jong-il.
If South Korea succeeded in persuading the North to open up for a gradual economic integration with the South, the cost of unification would be around $322 billion, it said.
On Sunday, Mr. Lee called for a ''unification tax'' to finance the cost of rejoining North Korea. The two Koreas were divided at the end of World War II.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: South Korean officials on Monday tested emergency food supplies as part of a civil defense drill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HONG JIN-HWAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 The Blue Ridge, a ship from the United States Navy, in Busan, South Korea, on Monday for joint military exercises. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEWSIS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HISTORY (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MODELING & SIMULATION (69%); TERRORISM (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); STROKES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (59%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (59%); KIM JONG IL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



410 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Lowe's Profit Rises 9.6% to $832 Million

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Consumers bought more air-conditioners and grills at the home improvement retailer Lowe's Companies in early summer, lifting second-quarter profit 9.6 percent, but overall spending was hurt by hot weather and the weak economy, the company said Monday. 
Lowe's joined a long line of companies in sounding a cautious note about consumer spending and reduced its yearly revenue forecast as worries increased about a stalling economy.
Robert A. Niblock, Lowe's chief executive, said that Americans were responding to programs like federal cash-for-appliances rebates and sales, but he described 2010 as a ''bouncing along the bottom'' year.
''We view 2010 as a year of transition for the home improvement industry, and we don't expect consistent improvement in core demand until the fundamentals of the labor and housing markets improve,'' Mr. Niblock in a call with analysts.
Revenue from stores open at least a year, a crucial indicator of performance, rose 1.6 percent.
But Americans remained cautious, spending on carpets or kitchen cabinets but not as much as they would have a few years ago, Larry D. Stone, the chief operating officer, said. ''We do see some movement in kitchen cabinet sales, albeit not as strong as we would like to see it.''
Carpet sales were strong, but not as strong as in previous years, Mr. Stone said.
Home sales have declined recently after being helped early in the year by tax credits, which expired at the end of April. Recent home buyers tend to spend on items like appliances or paint.
Lowe's net income rose to $832 million, or 58 cents a share, in the quarter ended July 30. That was up from $759 million, or 51 cents a share.
Revenue grew 3.7 percent to $14.36 billion, which fell short of the company's expectations.
Analysts had expected a profit of 59 cents a share and $14.52 billion in revenue, according to Thomson Reuters.
Lowe's, which is based in Mooresville, N.C., runs 1,724 stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico.
The company predicted a profit of $1.38 to $1.45 a share this year, up from a previous estimate of $1.37 to $1.47 a share. But it now expects revenue to rise about 4 percent, rather than 5 to 7 percent. That suggests a total of about $49.11 billion in revenue, down from $49.58 billion to $50.53 billion.
Analysts expect a profit of $1.42 a share and revenue of $49.57 billion on average. Lowe's fiscal year ends Jan. 28.
Revenue from stores open at least a year is expected to grow about 2 percent instead of 2 to 4 percent.
The company forecast a profit of 28 cents to 32 cents a share in the third quarter, with revenue up 3 to 5 percent, to a range of $11.72 billion to $11.97 billion. Analysts expect a profit of 31 cents a share and $11.94 billion in revenue.
Lowe's shares rose 11 cents, or 0.56 percent Monday, to close at $19.70.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME CENTERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HOME REMODELING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (96%)

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (96%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (96%)

PERSON: ROBERT A NIBLOCK (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010



411 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
PENTAGON CITES CONCERNS
In China Military Growth
China has increased spending on a military that is becoming larger and more effective even as Beijing has rebuffed exchanges with the Defense Department that could improve stability, according to a Pentagon study. PAGE A9
LOOSENING CUBA RESTRICTIONS 
The Obama administration is planning to expand opportunities for Americans to travel to Cuba, the latest step aimed at encouraging more contact between people in both countries, while leaving intact the decades-old embargo against the island's Communist government, according to Congressional and administration officials. PAGE A4
NORTH KOREA'S PROPAGANDA
In the last month, North Korea has posted a series of video clips on YouTube brimming with satire and vitriol against leaders in South Korea and the United States. It is also posting similar messages to Twitter, testimony to the increased chill in relations between the Koreas in recent months. PAGE A7
National
QUESTIONS LINGER IN GULF
As Shrimp Season Opens
On the first day of the first white-shrimp season in Louisiana since the BP oil spill, there were more questions about the future of the gulf seafood industry than there were boats bobbing on the water. Would there be any shrimp? Would anyone buy it? Would anyone eat it? PAGE A19
OBAMA STUMPS FOR AGENDA
President Obama called for a renewed effort to push his economic agenda, arguing that the political calculations of an election year should not stand in the way of trying to dig the country out of the downturn. PAGE A18
New York
IMMIGRANT IS SENTENCED
For Violating Iran Embargo
Mahmoud Reza Banki, an Iranian immigrant who had earned a Ph.D. from Princeton and aspired to a career in biotechnology, was sentenced to two and a half years in prison for violating the Iran trade embargo by using an informal money-transfer system known as hawala to move millions of dollars between the United States and Iran. PAGE A22
Business
FED ADOPTS RULES MEANT
To Protect Homebuyers
The Federal Reserve moved to end yield spread premiums, a controversial lending practice that helped propel the housing boom to unsustainable heights and then accelerated its collapse. The practice allowed mortgage brokers and lenders to gain additional profit from loans by charging borrowers higher-than-market interest rates. PAGE B3
21 ARRESTED IN PAY PROTESTS
The police in Bangladesh have arrested three garment industry labor leaders and 18 other people on charges that they organized and participated in violent protests last month. Advocacy groups have criticized the arrests, calling them a tactic for intimidating workers. The protesters were angry over a recent increase in the minimum wage, calling it inadequate. PAGE B1
PERSONALIZED SHOPPING APP
Major retailers are teaming with a smartphone application, called Shopkick, that can track shoppers as they move from counter to clothing rack to cash register, offering reward points or coupons all along the way. PAGE B1
MICROLENDER TRADES HIGHER
The first microfinance company to sell stock to the public in India got a strong endorsement from investors when its shares closed up 10.5 percent on the first day of trading. PAGE B4
Sports
AN ALABAMA BALLPARK
Lives to See Its Centennial
Rickwood Field in Birmingham Ala., which is about to turn 100 years old, has been able to escape a wrecking ball and become a shrine as America's oldest baseball park. PAGE B10
KNICKS' EMBATTLED CHIEF
As we move on from the latest uproar involving James L. Dolan, the Madison Square Garden chairman, and Isiah Thomas, while dreading the next one, it is important to remember that the continuous story is less about the opportunistic Thomas than it is about the ever-embattled Dolan. Harvey Araton, On Basketball. PAGE b11
Arts
AT BATTERY PARK,
A Convergence of Cultures
This year's installment of the Downtown Dance Festival, an annual event put on by the Battery Dance Company, included traditional Indian and modern Japanese dance. But Alastair Macaulay writes that the surprise was that two of the American-based companies were evoking other cultures, too. PAGE C1
BOOKSTORES AT WAR
When Books & Books opened its doors on Main Street in Westhampton Beach, N.Y., last month, it set off a simmering standoff with the Open Book, another independent bookstore just around the corner, and its devotees, and sparked a bit of summer drama in the quiet, laid-back town on the south fork of Long Island. PAGE C1
A BIG SHOT BROUGHT LOW
''Big Lake,'' a comedy series beginning on Tuesday night, centers on a young Wall Street genius, whose shenanigans, apparently with derivatives, brought down a bank and resulted in Congressional hearings. Review by Ginia Bellafante. PAGE C3
Science Times
A QUEST TO MAKE
An Old Ship Seaworthy
The Charles W. Morgan is the world's last surviving wooden whaling vessel, built in 1841. Restorers are spending $10 million to turn the museum piece into a working ship able to ply the unruly sea. They plan to sail the ship on its first voyage in nearly a century, opening a new chapter in its long career. PAGE D1
WORKING AROUND INJURIES
For many amateur athletes who are told by their doctors that a recurring injury necessitates a change in sport, their response is simply to change doctors. Gina Kolata, Personal Best. PAGE D5
Op-ed
BOB HERBERT PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SENTENCING (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (84%); IMMIGRATION (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CREDIT REGULATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); CRUSTACEANS (72%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); LITIGATION (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); GARMENT WORKERS (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); RETAILERS (62%); WIRE TRANSFERS (62%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (61%); MICROFINANCE (61%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (60%); RIOTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); OIL SPILLS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); CUBA (92%); BANGLADESH (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010



412 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Suicide Bomber Strikes Iraqi Army Recruiting Office

BYLINE: By STEPHEN FARRELL; Khalid D. Ali and Anthony Shadid contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- A suicide bomber penetrated apparently lax security measures at an Iraqi Army recruiting office in Baghdad on Tuesday, killing dozens of recruits in the first major bombing of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan. The attack comes in the fraught period just ahead of the Aug. 31 deadline for American forces to reduce their numbers.
Iraqi soldiers said they pulled at least 40 bodies away from the scene, where a large pool of bloodstained water and a pile of flip-flops sat in the middle of a square beside the vast security walls that shielded those inside the former Ministry of Defense building, but not those who had lined up outside. Iraqi officials at the Ministry of Interior and the nearest hospital said the death toll was at least 48, with more than 120 wounded. 
On Tuesday evening, the Iraqi police said 8 people were killed and 44 wounded after a bomb attached to a fuel truck loaded with kerosene blew up in Ur, a Shiite neighborhood in northeastern Baghdad, The Associated Press reported.
The ease with which a lone suicide bomber struck at the military recruiting station -- a common target since the very outset of the post-2003 insurgency -- will inevitably raise questions about the state of readiness of the Iraqi security forces ahead of the American drawdown to 50,000 troops.
Iraqi soldiers at the scene admitted that they did not expect a bomber to strike on the last day of an otherwise uneventful week of recruiting in Maidan Square, a poor district of central Baghdad.
Sgt. Muhammad Hassan, 28, said: ''I was here from the early morning. We searched everybody. One exploded himself among a group of soldiers and recruits.''
His uniform was stained by blood from the victims he had dragged away. ''The recruiting has been going on for at least a week, and this was the last day,'' he said. ''We were not expecting it because it was the final day.''
Zaid Ali, 20, said that he had come every day during the recruitment process in hopes of a job, and that security forces had on previous days checked people for their identity cards at 6 a.m.
On Tuesday, however, they asked to see papers around 7:30 a.m., he said. The delay appears to have allowed a larger crowd to gather, offering the bomber more targets.
Some of the would-be recruits were so eager for a job -- rare at a time of high unemployment -- that they remained at the scene for hours after the explosion.
Hussein Kamel, 21, said that he had slept overnight outside the recruiting center before the bombing.
''I was sleeping on a piece of grass nearby,'' Mr. Kamel said. ''At 7:30 a.m. there was a young, long-haired, green-eyed man who came down the street. He joined us in the line. When the military police came and asked for identity papers, he blew himself up immediately after they asked him.''
Half the attacker's body was blown away, in a scene captured by some of the security officers on cellphone cameras.
As weeping relatives dragged bloodstained wooden coffins from the morgue at the nearby Medical City hospital, Ali Mohammed Athab said his unemployed 21-year-old son, Haidar, had left his parents' home in the Zafaraniya district of Baghdad before dawn to apply for a job -- even one with all the attendant risks of serving in the Iraqi police force or army -- because he had few other prospects and wanted to make a future for himself.
Standing at his son's hospital bedside, where he lay with an injured back, Mr. Athab said his son found himself in a large crowd of people out in the open. ''The place where the people go to get hired was not organized well. If they had organized everything and made another place for the next stage of the interviews, this cowardly attack wouldn't have happened,'' he said.
The attack was the latest in a series of shootings and bombings, as insurgents seek to take advantage of the Iraqis' failure, after five months, to form a national government, and to test Iraqi forces ahead of the American deadline.
Maj. Gen. Qassim Atta, an Iraqi military spokesman, told the state television channel Iraqiya that the Sunni insurgent group Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia was responsible, but he offered no evidence. ''Al Qaeda gathered everything that they have to implement such attacks against the Iraqi people during this critical period,'' he said.
Over the weekend at least 19 people were killed in attacks often focused on the security forces. In a statement just ahead of Ramadan, which began last week, insurgents threatened ''to escalate their activities and further their strikes'' during the month, in which Muslims fast from dawn to dusk.
After Tuesday's explosion at the recruiting office, an American official in Baghdad issued a statement saying: ''Events of today were horrific, and we express our condolences to the Iraqi victims for their loss. Nonetheless, the long-term trend lines in Iraq -- whether political, economic and security -- are positive. There will be peaks in violence, but these don't change the fact that the overall trend has been good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the Medical City hospital in Baghdad, a man sat by a relative who was wounded in the suicide bombing at an Iraqi Army recruiting office on Tuesday. Iraqi officials said at least 48 people died. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); BOMBINGS (91%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RAMADAN (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



413 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Cape Cod Waterways Face Pollution Crisis

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

 BODY:
ORLEANS, Mass. -- Rising nitrogen levels are suffocating the vegetation and marine life in saltwater ponds and estuaries on Cape Cod, creating an environmental and infrastructure problem that, if left unchecked, will threaten the shellfishing industry, the tourist economy and the beaches that lure so many summer visitors.
More than 60 ponds and estuaries on the cape and a few elsewhere in the region have been choked by algae and seaweed. The culprit is nitrogen, much of it leaching out of septic system wastewater that runs through sandy soil into the estuaries. Faced with a federal mandate to fix their polluted waterways, Cape Cod towns have spent years creating plans to clean up the wastewater, largely through sewers and clustered septic systems. 
So far, most of the efforts have been to no avail, stifled by disputes over science and over who should pay for such a sprawling and expensive public works project.
''This is the biggest environmental issue the cape has ever faced,'' said Maggie Geist of the Association to Preserve Cape Cod, a nonprofit environmental group. ''And for a long time it's been a hidden problem.''
The root of the problem lies in the popularity and unchecked growth of Cape Cod over the last 30 years. Towns chose not to install sewers when the government helped subsidize them in the 1960s and '70s, fearing that it would lead to an influx of people. Newcomers arrived anyway and sprawled out, using individual septic systems to get rid of waste.
''We've reached capacity for the watershed,'' said Lindsey B. Counsell, executive director of Three Bays Preservation, a preservation group in Barnstable. ''We're a victim of our own geology.''
Without remediation, excess nitrogen could decimate shellfish beds and lead to widespread summer fish kills as algae, warm temperatures and cloud cover stifle oxygen in coastal waters, say officials who have examined the problem. Bays will be overtaken with seaweed that rots in the summer, a blow to property values and an environmental concern.
Here in Orleans, wastewater has been a divisive subject for years. Some residents say the town should put in place a $150 million plan that was drafted two years ago and approved at a town meeting, while others are calling for additional review before it is financed by taxpayers.
The problem is not always immediately apparent. From a distance, one saltwater pond here looks pristine, the summer sun bouncing off its placid waters and boats bobbing in the salt breeze.
''It's deceiving,'' said Gussie McKusick, who lives alongside the pond. ''It looks beautiful, but it's all dead underneath.''
Septic systems deposit wastewater, a mixture of urine and water, into a leech field. Because the cape's soil is so sandy and porous, the wastewater eventually is deposited into bays. Even after septic systems are removed, wastewater already in the soil will still be leaking.
The nitrogen problem is most acute in protected bays and saltwater ponds on the cape's southern side. The tides coming from Nantucket Sound are not high and forceful enough to flush out the nitrogen, which causes algae and seaweed to flourish, choking out oxygen needed by vegetative and marine species.
In Falmouth, which has long finger-shaped salt ponds, some areas have been closed to shellfishing for years because of elevated nitrogen levels, said Robert Griffin Jr., the assistant harbor master.
The algae and seaweed kill eelgrass, where prized bay scallops grow. Those scallops are gone from the ponds in Falmouth.
In August, the problem is sometimes smelled before it is seen. The algae bakes under the hot sun, creating a foul odor that may already be driving tourists away. Paul Niedzwiecki, the executive director of the Cape Cod Commission, a regional land use agency, said he had heard anecdotally that some people had left because of the smell.
Officials and towns are also girding for the possibility of a lawsuit from an environmental group that is exploring its options under the Clean Water Act.
''A lawsuit would be intended to bring all of the relevant decision makers and authorities who should be part of the solution to the table,'' said Christopher Kilian of the Conservation Law Foundation.
Towns on Cape Cod, which are fiercely independent and often fight regionalization, must try to work together on solutions, even though town wastewater plans can vary.
Residents are also fighting among themselves, with some wanting the entire town to pay for a plan and others insisting that only households that get sewers pay for them.
In Barnstable, voters will decide in November whether to finance $265 million in new sewers with a tax increase. And in Falmouth, officials are still trying to determine who will pay for their 50-year, $650 million plan. The largest project the town has ever undertaken was an $80 million expansion of its high school.
''This is the most massive potential public works project the town has ever seen, and clearly it's something the town is uneasy about, and it gets challenged,'' said Peter Boyer, a member of the Falmouth wastewater commission. ''It's a classic case, and it's inevitable.''
Here in Orleans, Ms. McKusick waded through her pond, slimy seaweed sticking to her legs and feeling like wet lettuce under her feet.
''It's not a question of if, it's a question of when,'' Ms. McKusick said of fixing the wastewater problem. ''And how much blood is on the walls when we're finished.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gussie McKusick, who lives along Areys Pond in Orleans, Mass., said the problems from nitrogen levels on Cape Cod waterways ran deep. ''It looks beautiful, but it's all dead underneath,'' she said of the pond. Below, a sign on Perch Pond warns of dangers of shellfishing there. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COASTAL AREAS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); RIVERS (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (89%); FISHES (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (77%); BEACHES (77%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (75%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SHELLFISH FISHING (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



414 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: A Resort for Gays Rises in Manhattan

BYLINE: By BETH GREENFIELD

 BODY:
Six years ago, after Ian Simpson Reisner, a developer in New York, spent a few pleasurable nights at the Axel Hotel Barcelona -- part of a small chain of upscale hotels aimed at gay visitors -- he was struck with an idea.
''I called them up and said, 'We have to bring this to New York,' '' Mr. Reisner, a managing partner of Parkview Developers, said of the Axel's owners. ''They said, 'Find a location and we'll talk.' '' 
After a brief search, he found a cavernous, long-vacant space at the western end of 42nd Street that was owned by the management company BD Hotels. Now, after securing a lease, clearing licensing hurdles, starting a buzz in the gay press and perfecting architectural plans by Paul Dominguez of Parkview, the Out NYC Urban Resort -- what Mr. Reisner calls a ''supersize'' version of his original plan -- is set to open in stages starting early next year. The $30 million, 90,000-square-foot complex is to have restaurants and bars, a spa, a reception hall, retail stores and a huge seven-nights-a-week dance club, along with a 127-room Axel Hotel.
Out NYC is one of a number of gay-themed entertainment complexes recently opened or planned. ''These places provide a concentrated feeling of community,'' said Thomas Roth, president of Community Marketing, a company in San Francisco that specializes in gay and lesbian market research. ''Especially for the many people who don't otherwise have the opportunity to be the majority.''
Nightlife complexes like the Dunes Resort in Saugatuck, Mich., and the Crown & Anchor in Provincetown, Mass., have long been staples of gay resort towns. But the newer versions are appearing in more urban areas, with appropriately urban amenities. Besides Barcelona, Axel also has hotels, billed as ''heterofriendly,'' in Buenos Aires and Berlin.
A complex called the Manor opened in 2009 near Fort Lauderdale, Fla., offering an array of nightlife options and restaurants (but no accommodations). And other big projects aimed at gay customers are on the horizon, including a 1,000-room hotel and party palace adjacent to the Strip in Las Vegas.
At a time when acceptance of gay people seems to be increasing, such resorts might seem superfluous. But Mr. Roth said his company's research indicated a strong interest in them.
''We can't assume there is a 'gay customer' anymore,'' he said. There is a lot of diversity among people who identify themselves as lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender, he said, and ''some want all gay all the time -- especially if they're from, say, Omaha. So something like the Out NYC could be extremely successful.'' According to studies by Community Marketing, New York City has long been the No. 1 domestic destination for American gay and lesbian travelers.
But while the tourist-crowd potential is certainly not lost on Mr. Reisner (in a not-yet-released promotional video about the property, he said seven million gay tourists visited New York last year), he also said he hoped to attract local residents.
''It's just as much for the community here as it is for people coming to visit,'' he said. ''You can spend an entire day in this place. There's everything you can imagine.''
The complex's design will be punctuated by details like undulating hallways inspired by the sculptor Richard Serra and functional spaces that wrap around three glassed-in courtyards. Amenities are to include a branch of the Nickel spa, which first opened in Paris; a courtyard lap pool enclosed in a glass atrium; a gym and wellness center; a cafe called Kitchen to be run by the owners of Eatery at 53rd Street and Ninth Avenue; and a reception hall geared toward same-sex weddings and commitment ceremonies as well as corporate events.
But the centerpiece may be the 14,000-square-foot XL Dance Bar, to be located in what was originally a 100-car parking garage. It will be operated by a number of gay-nightclub pros, including John Blair and Beto Sutter, who have 25 years of promoting experience at the now-defunct clubs Limelight and Roxy, and who owned the original XL in Chelsea before losing their lease several years ago. Joining them will be Tony Fornabaio and Brandon Voss, who currently head up a popular Saturday-night dance party called Club 57.
''They think long term,'' Mr. Blair said of Mr. Fornabaio and Mr. Voss. ''We are thinking long term for the Out NYC and XL. This concept can and most likely will go to other cities. So we need a big, strong team in place that can go beyond New York.''
Mr. Reisner and Mati Weiderpass, partners in life as well as business, run Parkview Developers and were creators of the national chain store Watch World (which was sold to Sunglass Hut). Their recent local projects include a luxury condominium building in Hell's Kitchen called the 505, and a proposed hotel-and-condo tower that would rise alongside the Empire State Building.
The hulking property on 42nd Street was originally built as a Travelodge in the 1950s and was later used as a Red Cross homeless shelter. It had been vacant for several years when Mr. Reisner approached Richard Born and Ira Drukier of BD Hotels to present his idea. In 2009, Mr. Reisner said, BD Hotels offered a 49-year lease at what he called a ''favorable rent,'' and Parkview jumped at the chance.
''This was a massively underutilized three-story building in the middle of the prime part of Manhattan,'' he said. ''Only in the great recession of 2009 could you even get your hands on a place like this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ian S. Reisner, left, one of the developers, explaining the eventual layout of the Out New York Urban Resort on West 42nd Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A rendering of a courtyard lap pool enclosed in a glass atrium. The complex will also have a large dance club and a hotel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL DOMINGUEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RESORTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); RETAILERS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%)

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



415 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Mother in South Carolina Killed 2 Children, Police Say

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
A financially desperate woman in South Carolina has confessed to smothering her two children with her bare hands, then driving a car with their bodies into a river, the police said on Tuesday morning. 
The woman, Shaquan Duley, 29, admitted to killing her 2-year-old and 18-month-old sons after the police pulled her submerged car from a river in Orangeburg, S.C., and discovered the boys' bodies, Sheriff Larry Williams of Orangeburg County said.
''The statement was made by the mother that she had suffocated the children,'' Sheriff Williams said at a news conference. ''She was a mother that was unemployed. She had no way of taking care of her children.''
Ms. Duley will be formally charged with murder on Wednesday, the police said.
The toddlers were identified Tuesday as Ja'van T. Duley, 18 months, and Devean C. Duley, 2, by the Orangeburg County coroner, Samuetta Marshall. Ms. Duley also has a 5-year-old daughter, who is now with her grandmother, the police said.
The case is reminiscent of the case of Susan Smith, a South Carolina woman who was convicted of drowning her two sons in a car in a lake in Union County in 1994. Ms. Smith was sentenced to life in prison and is being held at Leath Correctional Institution for women in Greenwood.
Sheriff Williams said the Orangeburg County killings followed a dispute between Ms. Duley and her mother.
''She was fed up with her mother telling her that she couldn't take care of the children or wasn't taking care of the children,'' Sheriff Williams said. ''She just wanted to be free.''
The police received a call about a submerged car in the Edisto River early Monday. They quickly grew suspicious of Ms. Duley's accounts of the accident, which were inconsistent while she was exhibiting a wide range of emotions. The authorities said one hint that her original story was a lie was that her clothes were dry, although she said she had gone into the river to try to save her sons.
''We felt that the story she was telling us wasn't factual,'' Sheriff Williams said.
Residents in Orangeburg were horrified as details of the deaths emerged.
''We suspected from the start that it wasn't an accident,'' said Ramona Milhouse, 81, who watched the car being pulled out of the river from her nearby property. ''I couldn't get to sleep last night. I kept thinking about those little boys. It's such a sad story.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A car was lifted out of the Edisto River on Monday in Orangeburg, S.C. Inside were the bodies of the two young sons of Shaquan Duley, 29, who has since confessed to killing them. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LARRY HARDY/THE TIMES AND DEMOCRAT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ORANGEBURG COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); WOMEN (78%); MURDER (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); PRISONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (68%); SENTENCING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



416 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Two Web Site Developers Said to Team Up With Starcom for Digital Ad Dollars

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- In a potential turning point for Hollywood's efforts to tap digital advertising dollars, the Starcom MediaVest Group has struck a deal that could exceed $100 million with a group of upstart entertainment Web sites.
A four-year deal, which Starcom MediaVest and the production company behind the sites, BermanBraun, plan to announce on Wednesday, opens the door for substantial spending on advertising for new types of digital entertainment. Until now, advertisers have placed small bets on untested digital ideas from Hollywood. 
''We think this deal is going to shape the future,'' Laura Desmond, Starcom's chief executive, said in an interview. Starcom, which is part of the Publicis Groupe, represents some of the biggest advertisers in the world, including Procter & Gamble, Wal-Mart and Coca-Cola.
The deal with Starcom spans multiple BermanBraun sites, some of which are still in the planning stages. Already in operation are the breezy, celebrity gossip-centered Wonderwall.com and Glo.com, a health and beauty site.
Starcom clients will be able to help shape the sites that are still in development, including a political one for MSNBC.com and a site directed at Latinos.
''Our clients are rightfully demanding a more robust pipeline of digital programming options beyond what exists,'' Ms. Desmond said. ''It is essential for us to help curate and create the content that will fill this gap.''
Early next year, BermanBraun will introduce movie and television portals.
BermanBraun was founded in 2007 by Gail Berman, formerly a top executive at Paramount Pictures and Fox Broadcasting, and Lloyd Braun, who previously led divisions of the Walt Disney Company and Yahoo.
Ms. Berman said the company's goal was to deliver 50 million unique users through various sites within a couple of years. ''At that point you're really talking about something -- that's a huge network,'' Ms. Berman said.
The deal gives Starcom clients a first look at BermanBraun's new sites and their new ideas about the format of ads. But the deal is not exclusive, meaning that BermanBraun can continue to sell advertising to Starcom rivals.
Advertisers have dabbled for years in webisodes with brands and products woven into plots. Recently, they have started spending more money on streaming portals like Hulu.com. But Hollywood has struggled to persuade advertisers to place substantial digital bets ahead of time, the way they do with new television shows. The mantra from Madison Avenue: prove you can consistently deliver an engaged audience and then we will consider joining you.
''The missing piece has been having a partner who can supply a continuous revenue stream,'' Mr. Braun said.
Starcom is backing Ms. Berman and Mr. Braun in part because of their record in programming -- she introduced ''American Idol'' on Fox and he came up with the idea for ''Lost'' at ABC -- and because their first two Web sites have been smash hits.
Wonderwall, which made its debut in February 2009 on MSN, is already one of the Web's top celebrity sites. It attracted about 12.4 million unique users in July, according to comScore, with visitors spending an average of 11.6 minutes on each trip to the site -- an ''engagement'' figure that far surpasses those claimed by more entrenched sites like TMZ.com.
Glo has soared since its introduction, notching more than five million unique visitors in July, with each one spending an average of six minutes on the site, according to comScore. Those statistics rank Glo, which is designed to look like a glossy magazine, as one of the top lifestyle destinations on the Web.
Coordinating the effort on behalf of Starcom will be Brian Terkelsen, the president of LiquidThread, a unit of the advertising company dedicated to creating ''brand-inspired experiences'' across the Web and mobile devices.
Mr. Terkelsen said he envisioned the BermanBraun partnership producing ''advertainment'' similar to that of the Thread, a successful celebrity-style show on Yahoo's Shine portal that integrates various Procter & Gamble brands.
BermanBraun, which also has a full roster of television shows in production and is producing a film based on the ''Men Are From Mars, Women Are From Venus'' book series, came on Starcom's radar via Wonderwall. Starcom toyed with the idea of buying that site for a year but the plan faded when the recession hit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gail Berman and Lloyd Braun started the celebrity gossip-centered Wonderwall.com and Glo.com, a health and beauty site. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (91%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (77%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); STREAMING MEDIA (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (67%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); WALT DISNEY CO (66%); HULU LLC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); COCA-COLA CO (56%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (66%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); KO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (66%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (66%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



417 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan's Unfolding Disaster: An Urgent Call for Aid

 BODY:
The magnitude of Pakistan's current tragedy is almost more than the mind can take in. A fifth of the country flooded by torrential monsoon rains. Fifteen million to 20 million people driven from their homes or otherwise affected. Six million in need of emergency assistance, such as food and clean water. Millions of acres of the country's best cropland underwater. Livestock drowned. Medical clinics destroyed. Cholera threatening the survivors. 
This is a disaster on many levels. It is a tragedy for millions of people. It also is a strategic threat -- to the stability of Pakistan's nuclear-armed government and to American efforts to suppress Al Qaeda and other extremists wreaking havoc on both sides of the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. These groups are eager to use the crisis to sow more resentment toward Islamabad and Washington and win new adherents for their nihilistic cause.
The world, especially the United States, must not blow this one. We worry it already could be doing that.
The United Nations has called for $460 million in donations for immediate relief. So far, less than half of that has been committed. The United Nations says that the money is urgently needed to supply food, clean water, tents or shelter materials, basic household goods, emergency health care and livestock feed. More delay means even more devastation.
Washington is doing better than other donors, providing badly needed helicopters for rescue and supply missions, prefabricated bridges and more than $70 million in relief and resettlement funds. It should be rallying other countries, as well as private organizations and individuals, to do their fair share. But surely this country, as the richest donor with the greatest strategic interest in Pakistan, could do a lot more right now.
The world has been slow to grasp the enormity of this crisis, perhaps because it unfolded slowly, not in a sudden jolt like an earthquake or tsunami. Or, perhaps, the floods were overshadowed by the out-of-control fires in Russia or were neglected because many donors were already fatigued from the challenge of rebuilding Haiti.
The relatively low death toll (about 1,500), the summer vacation doldrums and negative views of Pakistan as corrupt and war-ridden also may have dampened enthusiasm for helping.
The devastation in Pakistan is likely to worsen as the monsoon rains continue. But even an end to the rains won't end the emergency. Plans need to be made right now to ensure that next year's crops are planted. Looming ahead is the enormous challenge of rebuilding Pakistan's shattered bridges, roads, structures and agricultural and economic base. For now, the humanitarian needs are paramount.
In some areas, radical Islamic charities have provided shelter and hot meals well before the beleaguered authorities could bring in supplies. This is a battle for hearts and minds. It is one that Pakistan's government, and the United States, must not lose.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEATHER (78%); TSUNAMIS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AL-QAEDA (74%); TERRORISM (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TROPICAL DISEASES (71%); FIRES (71%); LIVESTOCK FEED (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (56%); HELICOPTERS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%); UNITED NATIONS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); HAITI (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



418 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Rose in July, Easing Concerns of Deflation

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Producer prices for finished goods rose slightly in July, the first such increase in three months, according to government data released on Tuesday, helping to ease some concerns about the possibility of deflation.
The Labor Department's Producer Price Index rose 0.2 percent last month, compared with a 0.5 percent decline in June. Prices for finished foods, excluding volatile food and energy prices, rose 0.3 percent, exceeding forecasts of 0.2 percent. The price rise of the core index was the largest gain since January.
The index tracks prices of goods received by producers before they are passed on to consumers, and it helps to analyze the prospects for price pressures on the economy. 
Taken with the Consumer Price Index on Friday, which also showed an increase for July, the report should help ease concerns among some Federal Reserve officials about the possibility of a drop in prices and salary, or deflation.
Still, Nigel Gault, the chief United States economist for IHS Global Insight, said the threat remained.
''Deflation is clearly a risk, but it is not here yet,'' Mr. Gault said. ''It depends on how much growth we get in the economy moving forward.''
Bernard Baumohl, the chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group, said the possibility of deflation was remote.
''I am not taking concerns of deflation all that seriously,'' Mr. Baumohl said. ''The global economy is out of the recession phase. It is growing, admittedly slowly, but it is still growing and I expect economic activity will pick up more momentum.''
''The dilemma is, Where is the economy headed later this year and into 2011? What we are focused on is the outlook,'' Mr. Baumohl said.
The rise in the price index last month was attributed to increases in consumer foods, which rose 0.7 percent, with most of the price rises for fresh and dried vegetables. The last time the overall index rose was in March, when it had a 0.8 percent increase.
On Friday, the Labor Department said the Consumer Price Index rose 0.3 percent in July on a seasonally adjusted basis, and 1.2 percent in the last 12 months. When energy and food prices are subtracted, the core index rose 0.1 percent in July, after rising 0.2 percent in June.
The Federal Reserve said last week that it expected inflation to remain subdued for some time. With that expectation, the Fed has kept the federal funds rate near zero since December 2008.
With inflation well below the Fed's implicit target of around 2 percent, many economists, including committee members of the central bank, have spoken of concerns that the economy could instead be at risk of declining wages and prices.
Last week, the Fed, saying its confidence in the recovery had dimmed, announced plans to buy long-term government debt by using the proceeds from its mortgage bond portfolio.
Kevin H. Giddis, the executive managing director and president of fixed-income capital markets at Morgan Keegan & Company, said the Fed move helped put Tuesday's rise in the price index in context.
''In the past, I may have been concerned that the uptick in P.P.I. would trickle down to consumer prices, but not today,'' Mr. Giddis said.
''As has been made abundantly clear by the economic data released in recent weeks and, more to the point, the Fed's decision to restart quantitative easing, inflation should be the least of our worries right now,'' he said in a research note.
A separate report from the Federal Reserve on Tuesday showed that output from manufacturing, a sector that has been a bright spot in the recovery, increased 1.1 percent in July after falling 0.5 percent in June. A large contributor to the jump in output was an increase of nearly 10 percent in the production of motor vehicles and parts. Over all, industrial production rose 1 percent last month.
The statistics were the latest to reflect an economy in a period of sluggish recovery. Recent macroeconomic data has highlighted the impact of factors including government stimulus, labor market weakness and households struggling with debt.
In the housing sector particularly, factors including government tax credits, demand, and debt burdens have had an impact on construction and sales.
A third report from the Commerce Department on Tuesday showed that housing starts rose 1.7 percent in July to the seasonally adjusted annual rate of 549,000. Permits declined 3.1 percent, a 14-month low.
''Financial distress on the part of many households, ongoing labor market weakness and vicious competition from an enormous overhang of existing homes all point to a very tough slog for home builders in the months and quarters ahead,'' said Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist for MFR Inc.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A home under construction in Springfield, Ill. Commerce Department data showed the housing sector was still struggling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH PERLMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Producer Prices: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Labor Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRODUCER PRICES (91%); DEFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (79%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



419 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: In Oakland, a Second Chance for a White Elephant

BYLINE: By MORRIS NEWMAN

 BODY:
OAKLAND, Calif. -- When first conceived by its original developer, Oakland City Walk seemed a safe bet. The four-building condominium complex stands two blocks from the ornate tower of City Hall and directly across the street from the city's largest office buildings.
But when the flow of credit dried up in the summer of 2007, the high-profile City Walk turned into a white elephant for the developer, the Olson Company of Seal Beach, Calif., and an embarrassment for the city. ''It was really annoying,'' said Patrick Lane, the city's redevelopment director.
This year, after months of studying the project at what he described as ''a granular level,'' Frank Middleton, the western regional director for Wood Partners, an apartment developer in Atlanta, gave the go-ahead for his company to buy City Walk for $5 million, a fraction of its projected cost. Shortly afterward, Wood Partners resumed work on the project, which is expected to cost a total of $55 million to finish and is being partly financed by a loan from the City of Oakland. 
When Mr. Middleton first toured City Walk last summer, the red-painted steel frame of the six-story complex remained as visible as it had in July 2007, when the general contractor filed for bankruptcy and construction halted. In the interim, rain had ruined much of the plasterboard and wooden cabinetry inside the roofless building. Part of the exterior, wrapped in plastic sheeting, resembled an installation by the artist Christo in poor repair.
The city's $5 million loan to Wood Partners is part of Oakland's commitment to bring thousands of residents to downtown. Started 10 years ago by Jerry Brown, the mayor at the time, the 10K initiative had a goal of attracting 10,000 new residents to the area through the construction of at least 6,000 housing units.
The program has exceeded its original goal in terms of construction. To date, about 4,200 condominiums and rental apartments have been completed, an additional 510 are under construction and permits have been granted for roughly 4,000 other units.
The goal of the 10K program was to create a 24-hour downtown area, through the creation of new housing and commercial development, particularly restaurants and retailers, Mr. Lane said. The city assisted the initiative by assembling and selling city-owned sites to developers.
While the downtown area experienced a glut of rental units shortly after the credit crisis, when several large condominium projects were converted to rental, the occupancy rate at the end of June was 91.6 percent, while the average rent was $1,361, according to a report by Red Capital Group of Columbus, Ohio.
Throughout a spottily developed downtown, new four- and five-story condominium and apartment complexes have risen in the last decade like Modernist mushrooms amid the aging one- and two-story storefronts, some dating back more than a century.
At least two earlier attempts to sell City Walk fell apart, Mr. Middleton said. Consultants' reports had described downtown Oakland as a saturated housing market, and some prospective buyers had contemplated buying the complex and waiting until a rebound in the housing market to complete it, or even demolishing it and selling the construction materials.
Mr. Middleton said he was skeptical of some conclusions drawn by financial experts. ''They're just looking at numbers,'' he said of the consultants. ''They don't know the area.''
In June 2009, Mr. Middleton sent his wife and children on vacation, while choosing to spend six weeks exploring downtown Oakland, hanging out in bars and observing pedestrian traffic.
''I waited until the last train left at 2 a.m. to see what would happen to the street life,'' he said.
Although sections of Oakland remain plagued by crime, downtown seemed safe and hospitable, Mr. Middleton said, who reported seeing sidewalks full of pedestrians well past midnight. Many of those people were young, single professionals who had chosen to live in Oakland, which is less expensive than neighboring San Francisco, and connected to the larger city by the BART rail system and the Bay Bridge.
Oakland, with its relatively lower commercial rents, was also attracting start-up businesses. ''The real estate market was supposed to be at an all-time low, and here are all these new restaurants opening up,'' said Brian Pianca, the Bay Area director for Wood Partners.
Mr. Middleton then reread what he described as a ''roomful of reports, sitting in boxes,'' from consultants about the market. One assumption he challenged was that downtown Oakland was overbuilt. The number of completed units, he said, was far less than the total number of units that had been approved for construction. And despite the recession, the demand for housing in the Bay Area remained moderately high.
The developers decided to ''reposition'' City Walk from a condo complex to a rental complex, focusing on young professionals who worked in San Francisco and elsewhere in the Bay Area, but who wanted the comparatively lower rents available in Oakland.
Wood Partners, following an industry practice, would not disclose the intended rental rates, saying it would wait until the completion of construction to set the rates competitively. Completion is set for mid-2011.
To appeal to its target audience of renters, Wood Partners added new amenities to the 256-unit complex, including a business center with computers and other office equipment.
On the top floor, where the original developer had intended high-price penthouses with enormous balconies, Wood Partners converted the private balconies into common areas suitable for open-air barbecues, with views of the bay and the San Francisco skyline, including the Bay Bridge and the Golden Gate Bridge on opposite ends of the city.
''You can see San Francisco better from here than from the city itself,'' Mr. Pianca said.
If the executives at Wood Partners were sold on Oakland, convincing lenders to finance construction was difficult. The partners said they were turned down by 80 lenders before receiving most of the financing from Berkshire Property Advisors.
The loan package was $5 million short of the plan drawn up by the developers. After considerable public debate, the Oakland City Council in April approved a market-rate loan for that amount, and developers quickly completed the purchase and started construction, retaining the original architect, MVE & Partners of Irvine, Calif., to prepare new construction documents.
Although the project needed to be redesigned in part, Ernesto Vasquez, a principal of MVE, said he was not put off by the complexity of resuming work on a project that was 60 percent finished. ''I've lived through at least four recessions as an architect,'' he said, ''so we've had several experiences in working on buildings that have been left unfinished.''
And to give the project a new image, the developers have renamed it Domain at Alta. ''We thought the City Walk brand had been tarnished,'' Mr. Middleton said.
Mr. Lane, the Oakland city official, said he was pleased to see the project finally turn back into an asset after lying dormant for three years. ''Now I can check off the box that says 'complete,' '' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Work has resumed at City Walk, above, after three years. Frank Middleton, left, and Brian Pianca of Wood Partners, which is finishing the project. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); MAYORS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RETAILERS (60%)

COMPANY: ODW LOGISTICS INC (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS493110 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (72%); SIC4226 SPECIAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE, NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



420 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart and Home Depot Beat Estimates, but Say Consumers Are Cautious

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
For two major retailers reporting quarterly results on Tuesday, consumers appeared to be holding back.
Steeper price-slashing did not lure customers into spending more at Wal-Mart, while shoppers at Home Depot spent less and put off big home improvement projects or big-ticket items like appliances.
Both Wal-Mart Stores and Home Depot posted second-quarter profits on Tuesday that beat analyst estimates, and both slightly raised their full-year earnings guidance for the year. Yet their results suggested that American consumers were not spending as much as had been expected. 
''Both of them managed to get to earnings through something besides sales,'' said David Strasser, an analyst at Janney Capital Markets. ''I think things are getting worse, not better, for consumers.''
Meanwhile, the luxury department store Saks reported a second-quarter loss that was lower than anticipated because it sold more items at full price.
Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, said that its strategy of aggressive discounts had not worked as well as it had hoped. Sales at stores open at least a year in the United States, a crucial indicator known as same-store sales, fell for the fifth consecutive quarter. That steady decline means those stores are in worse shape than they were at the heart of the recession.
Wal-Mart said that the spate of discouraging news prompted it to rethink strategies that it had tried to persuade customers to begin spending again, including deep price cuts.
Net income at Wal-Mart rose 3.6 percent, to $3.6 billion, or 97 cents a share, from $3.47 billion, or 89 cents a share, in the second quarter a year ago. That beat the 96 cents a share forecast by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.
''Even though we had some fairly dramatic price reductions, those reductions weren't enough to drive the traffic we had hoped for,'' the chief financial officer, Thomas M. Schoewe, said in a conference call. ''The customer's under pressure, and that's the main reason why the rollbacks didn't work as well as we had hoped.''
Spending patterns at Wal-Mart suggest its customers have been hit particularly hard by the recession. Mr. Schoewe said the company saw spending that moved in tandem with paycheck cycles, with customers buying more as soon as their paychecks were cashed, and little as those paychecks ran out. Mr. Strasser of Janney said that Wal-Mart's shifting strategies indicated the retail giant was ''a little bit lost'' in navigating the economic downturn. ''They're operating their business, quite frankly, not very well at the moment,'' he said.
The company is putting some items it had cut back into stock, after customers expressed frustration at losing those options. And at about two-thirds of its stores in the United States, it is adding promotional merchandise back into the middle and sides of its main aisles, which it had cleared in an effort to declutter the stores.
Sales at Wal-Mart rose about 2.8 percent, to $103 billion. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected $105.3 billion. The retailer raised its full-year earnings estimates to a range of $3.95 to $4.05 a share, up from $3.90 to $4.00.
Over all, net sales for the quarter increased 2.8 percent from a year earlier, driven by international growth.
At Home Depot, the largest home improvement retailer, plans for a rebound went a bit off course as the economy faltered. The company has lowered its sales forecast growth for the year to 2.6 percent, from 3.5 percent.
''Customers are looking for value,'' said Carol B. Tome, chief financial officer and executive vice president of corporate services, in an interview. She said that although the company expected store visits to be up in the second half, it did not expect them to be spending much more per visit.
Home Depot reported that its earnings rose 6.8 percent from the second quarter a year ago, to $1.19 billion, or 72 cents a share, mostly because of cost-cutting and slightly more foot traffic in stores.
Analysts had forecast earnings of 71 cents a share. Home Depot raised its earnings guidance for the year to $1.90 a share, from $1.88, but lowered its sales forecast, reflecting a weaker-than-expected recovery.
Home Depot began to see a slight improvement from last year in same-store sales in the United States, which increased 1 percent from a year ago, the third consecutive quarterly increase. At Saks, which had sold many of its luxury offerings at deep discounts in late 2008 and early 2009, the company decided to stock fewer items to get consumers buying them at full price again. Saks's loss in the quarter was $32.2 million, or 21 cents a share, an improvement from the $54.5 million it had lost a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected a loss of 17 cents a share.
Its sales increased 5.1 percent, to $593 million, and same-store sales increased 4.6 percent from a year earlier.
''We've seen a substantial increase in our full-price selling,'' the chairman and chief, Stephen I. Sadove, said in an interview. ''If they know there's only two size 5 shoes and two size 7 shoes left and you better buy it or there may not be any more available, it starts training behavior that if you wait for it to go on sale there's a good chance it may notbe there.''
Saks has also been asking designers to offer ''good-better-best'' products to meet shifting spending habits, so even a high-end brand would offer a range of prices. ''A large number of thebest designers have been very proactive in offering, within their brand, good-better-best price points,'' Mr. Sadove said.
Saks said it would close Saks Fifth Avenue stores in Mission Viejo, Calif., and Plano, Tex.; in July, it closed three other stores.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Sam's Club shopper in Arkansas. Wal-Mart said its deep price cuts weren't luring customers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH CONARD/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (57%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); HOME DEPOT INC (95%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%); HD (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



421 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: In Mott's Strike, More Than Pay at Stake

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
WILLIAMSON, N.Y. -- After nearly 90 days of picketing in the broiling sun outside the sprawling Mott's apple juice plant here in upstate New York, Michelle Muoio recognizes that the lengthy strike is about far more than whether the 305 hourly workers at the plant get a fatter or slimmer paycheck.
The union movement and many outsiders view the strike as a high-stakes confrontation between a company that wants to cut its labor costs, even as it is earning record profits, and workers who are determined to resist demands for wage and benefit givebacks.
''It's disgusting, honestly, that they want to take things away from the people who made them profitable,'' said Ms. Muoio (pronounced MOY-oh), a $19-an-hour machine operator who has worked at the plant 15 years. 
The company that owns Mott's, the beverage conglomerate Dr Pepper Snapple Group, counters that the Mott's workers are overpaid compared with other production workers in the Rochester area, where blue-collar unemployment is high after years of layoffs at employers like Xerox and Kodak.
Chris Barnes, a company spokesman, said Dr Pepper Snapple was seeking a $1.50-an-hour wage cut, a pension freeze and other concessions to bring the plant's costs in line with ''local and industry standards.''
The company, which has 50 brands including 7Up and Hawaiian Punch, reported net income of $555 million in 2009, compared with a loss of $312 million the previous year. Its 2009 sales were $5.5 billion, down 3 percent.
With each passing week, the two sides have dug in deeper, doing their utmost to outmaneuver and undercut each other. Rain or shine, dozens of workers picket outside the plant each day, standing alongside a 15-foot-tall inflatable rat and a mock coffin emblazoned with ''R.I.P. Corporate Greed.''
Rebecca Givan, a professor of industrial relations at Cornell, said the strike has taken on broader symbolism. ''The union wants to tap into the public backlash against perceived corporate greed,'' she said. ''The company wants to emphasize the depressed local labor market.''
The strike has become so important because of the prominence of the brands and because of its unusual nature: a highly profitable company is taking the rare and bold step of demanding large-scale concessions.
Unlike previous battles, where American manufacturers have often sought to cut labor costs by threatening to close plants or move operations to the South or overseas, Dr Pepper Snapple is not making such threats.
For unions across the country, the stakes are high because if the Mott's workers lose this showdown, it could prompt other profitable companies to push for major labor concessions. Such a lengthy strike is unusual at a time when work stoppages have become much less common than they once were.
Strikes and other work stoppages nationwide have plunged in recent decades, to 126 last year from 831 in 1990, according to the Bureau of National Affairs, as unions represent fewer workplaces and workers increasingly recognize the considerable pain and risk involved in walkouts.
''Companies have asked for concessions throughout the history of the labor movement because they've faced hard times and needed help to survive,'' said Stuart Appelbaum, president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, which represents the Mott's workers. ''Dr Pepper Snapple is different. They don't even show the respect to lie to us. They just came in and said, 'We have no financial need for this, but we just want it anyway because we figure we can get away with it.' ''
Negotiations have not been held since May, and Dr Pepper Snapple says it has no intention of resuming them. The company has continued to operate the plant using replacement workers and says that production of apple juice and apple sauce is growing each day. Union officials say production is one-third of what it was before the walkout.
The Mott's workers voted 250 to 5 to strike, walking out on May 23. They were furious about the company's demands to cut their wages by about $3,000 a year, freeze pensions, end pensions for new hires, reduce the company's 401(k) retirement contributions and increase employees' costs for health care benefits. Dr Pepper Snapple said it was merely seeking to bring its benefits more in line with those of its other plants.
Even before the strike vote, workers were stewing, saying that management had begun treating them far worse after Cadbury Schweppes, the former owner, spun off its American beverages division in 2007, creating Dr Pepper Snapple.
The new management eliminated their bonuses, the summer picnic and the year-end holiday party for employees' children, several workers complained.
With the apple harvest getting under way, the region's apple growers are eager for a settlement. They are concerned that the plant, which traditionally buys half the apples produced in the region, will cut back because the plant's output has fallen.
''We've got the most to lose,'' said John Teeple, whose orchards produce 100,000 bushels a year. ''We've got million of apples about to be picked.''
Justifying the proposed cuts, management says the Mott's workers average $21 an hour, compared with the $14 average hourly wage for production, transportation and material moving workers in the Rochester area. Union officials say that 70 percent of the plant's workers earn $19 or less an hour and that many are highly experienced and deserve well more than $14 an hour.
Dr Pepper Snapple, based in Plano, Tex., has sought to win public support by running full-page ads in Rochester's main newspaper. One recent ad said, ''Mott's pays more. Would you walk away from a manufacturing job that paid you as much as 50 percent more than you could make elsewhere? That's what union workers did at Mott's.'' (The company said that it had offered not to cut wages if the workers ratified its offer by April 15.)
The workers, meanwhile, are incensed that the company is demanding givebacks when it posted record profits last year and increased its dividend by 67 percent in May.
''Corporate America is making tons of money -- this company is a good example of that,'' said Mike LeBerth, president of the union local representing the strikers. ''So why do they want to drive down our wages and hurt our community? This whole economy is driven by consumer spending, so how are we supposed to keep the economy going when they take away money from the people who are doing the spending?''
Dr Pepper Snapple has vigorously defended its stance. ''The union contends that a profitable company shouldn't seek concessions from its workers,'' the company said in a statement. ''This argument ignores the fact that as a public company, Dr Pepper Snapple Group has a fiduciary responsibility to operate in the best interests of all its constituents, recognizing that a profitable business attracts investment, generates jobs and builds communities.''
The union is straining to maximize pressure on management. It has enlisted several prominent New York Democrats including Senator Charles E. Schumer and Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, who is running for governor, to urge the company to resume bargaining.
Tim Budd, a 24-year employee who belongs to the union's bargaining team, said he was shocked by one thing the plant manager said during negotiations.
''He said we're a commodity like soybeans and oil, and the price of commodities go up and down,'' Mr. Budd recalled. ''He said there are thousands of people in this area out of jobs, and they could hire any one of them for $14 an hour. It made me sick to have someone sit across the table and say I'm not worth the money I make.''
Mr. Barnes, the company spokesman, said the union took the plant manager's words out of context.
''We'd prefer that our employees return to work, and the door is open for them to come back,'' he said. ''But we're prepared to continue operating without them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael LeBerth, president of the local union, on the picket line at Mott's plant in Williamson. ''Corporate America is making tons of money,'' he said. (B1)
The stakes are high for unions. If Mott's workers lose, it could lead other profitable companies to push for big labor concessions.
 Michelle Muoio of Clyde, N.Y., a $19-an-hour machine operator, has worked at the Mott's plant in Williamson for 15 years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY WORKERS (90%); STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%)

COMPANY: DR PEPPER SNAPPLE GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: DPS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (56%); SIC2087 FLAVORING EXTRACTS & FLAVORING SYRUPS, NEC (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



422 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: China Sets Strict Rules on Off-Book Loans

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Chen Xiaoduan contributed research.

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- Disappointed with his low savings deposit rate, a 29-year-old chemical company salesman named Zhang Zhenlei says he took $19,000 out of his savings account last November and bought into a higher-yielding investment trust through his bank's wealth management division.
The money, the bank told him, would help finance two government highway and infrastructure projects.
''They told me the details and which companies would get the loans,'' Mr. Zhang said. ''And they told me the risk was under control.'' 
But last month, the China Banking Regulatory Commission issued a sharp warning, ordering investment trust companies to stop selling such products in cooperation with banks. Regulators were apparently worried that banks and trusts were forming partnerships and using products like the one sold to Mr. Zhang to, in effect, finance loans without calling them loans.
The government evidently suspected that banks were using such maneuvers to evade rules put in place this year to rein in rampant lending and excess credit. Those conditions have been cited as a reason for rising property prices and overall inflation.
Regulators, suspecting that banks and trusts are secretly repackaging old loans and moving them off bank balance sheets, are concerned that financial institutions in China may have engaged in the same sort of financial engineering that got Western banks into trouble.
On Aug. 10, government overseers acted again, ordering banks to move any off-balance-sheet loans back onto their books and to make provisions to safeguard against a rise in bad loans, according to a copy of the government order given to The New York Times by an industry expert.
Several weeks ago, the Fitchcredit rating agency warned that such off-balance-sheet deals were understating the size of bank lending in China and thereby masking the risks associated with an increase in dodgy loans.
Fitch estimates that Chinese banks had about $350 billion in trust-related products on their balance sheets at the end of June, and that much of that lending had not been publicly disclosed.
''Regardless of how the transaction is structured, credit is disappearing from bank balance sheets, resulting in pervasive understatement of credit growth,'' a Fitch analyst, Charlene Chu, wrote in a June presentation. ''Credit risk has not disappeared but merely been transferred to investors.''
The off-balance-sheet deals are raising warning flags about a possible slowdown here. While China's economy remains robust -- it overtook Japan in the second quarter to become the world's second-largest economy, behind the United States -- analysts worry that a surge in bank lending last year and early this year might have led to wasteful spending on infrastructure and real estate projects.
In recent years, the government has been trying to crack down on what it deems wasteful spending on ''luxurious'' local government buildings, highways to nowhere and so-called image projects that are constructed in poverty-stricken areas.
The basis for these worries was laid last year, after the government encouraged aggressive lending as part of a huge economic stimulus package. The result was a record $1.4 trillion in new bank loans in 2009, about double the previous year. Some analysts fear the sharp increase in lending included many bad loans that will begin to show up over the next few years.
Aware of the risks, Chinese regulators are pressing state-run banks to raise billions of dollars in capital to cushion any downturn -- a task that could be complicated by any perceptions among private investors that the banks are exposed to a lot of risky debt. The government is also conducting stress tests to determine how banks will perform if property prices plummet.
Beijing is now trying to restrict lending and ease asset price inflation without setting off a slowdown.
''They're stuck in a policy bind,'' says Michael Pettis, a professor of finance at Peking University in Beijing, noting China's heavy dependence on investment-driven growth. ''They have to choose between cleaning things up and maintaining high growth.''
Pushing in the opposite direction are banks and investment trusts, which want to continue pumping money into the economy to bolster their profits. Analysts say they have been adept at evading the rules with clever and complex financial products.
Even though most banks contacted in recent weeks said they had stopped offering such products, several said they had found ways to continue to sell them. Analysts say it is unclear just how pervasive such products are.
Something similar happened here in the 1990s, when aggressive financing by banks and investment trusts led to big losses, huge bankruptcies and new regulations.
Chinese banks appear to be stronger this time around. Over the last decade, huge restructuring and government recapitalization efforts allowed the big state banks to clean up their balance sheets and eventually raise billions of dollars in public stock offerings.
Still, analysts say the lack of transparency about lending makes it difficult for investors and regulators to assess the risks facing some banks.
''Essentially what you had was a bank using a trust company to package that bank's own loans into a wealth management product, which was then sold to its own customers,'' says Jason Bedford, a manager at KPMG in Beijing. ''The problem is you don't have a clear transfer of risk off of the balance sheet.''
With the help of trusts, banks are repackaging loans as investments, analysts say, thereby making room to issue additional loans. And trusts are turning to wealthy bank clients to raise new capital.
Banking customers are also contributing to the continued use of partnerships between banks and investment trusts, analysts say. These customers, which include corporate clients, have been frustrated with the low yields they earn on savings deposit -- close to 2 percent -- and with the dearth of alternative investment options. Higher-yielding investment trusts were seen as ideal.
''Banks have a lot of demands from high-net-worth depositors,'' particularly big corporate accounts, Mr. Bedford at KPMG said.
Stephen Green, a Shanghai-based analyst at Standard Chartered Bank, describes investment trusts as financial intermediaries, filling in gaps in the financial markets and acting as a jack of all trades -- part hedge fund, mutual fund, private equity firm and bank lender.
Trusts are also a vital source of financing for private companies, and lately real estate developers, which often have a difficult time securing loans from state-owned banks -- largely because the government is trying to restrain real estate development.
But many investment trusts are state-owned, and they often finance state infrastructure projects. For instance, the Xi'an Trust, which is owned by the government in the city of Xi'an, is providing money for land, water and electricity projects to build a new high-tech base for the city.
For wealthy investors like Zhang Zhenlei, though, investment trusts offer attractive interest rates, about double the savings deposit rate.
Mr. Zhang, who is a V.I.P. client at his state-owned bank, says he spent a half hour filling out paperwork so that he could invest in a trust and help finance an infrastructure company in Inner Mongolia and also a highway development company in southern China's Guangdong Province.
''It turned out very well,'' says Mr. Zhang, who has already gotten his money back, with interest payments, after the six-month lockup period ended.
As for the crackdown on trust products, regulators may have difficulty, analysts say. A wealth manager at I.C.B.C., one of China's biggest state-owned banks, was offering investment trusts to banking clients two weeks ago.
''Now we have a 57-day trust product with a yield rate of 2.6 percent,'' the manager told one prospective client over the phone. ''It's available from today. Though financial products aren't authorized for principal to be guaranteed, usually we can orally guarantee your principal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Beijing branch of the I.C.B.C., a top bank. Regulators are pressing state-owned banks to increase their capital cushions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); ENGINEERING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (89%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) EAST CHINA (89%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



423 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Really Unusually Uncertain

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Berlin
Over the past few weeks I've had a chance to speak with senior economic policy makers in America and Germany and I think I've figured out where we are. It's like this: things are getting better, except where they aren't. The bailouts are working, except where they're not. Things will slowly get better, unless they slowly get worse. We should know soon, unless we don't.
It is no wonder that businesses are reluctant to hire with such ''unusual uncertainty,'' as Fed chief Ben Bernanke put it. One reason it is so unusual is that we are not just trying to recover from a financial crisis triggered by crazy mortgage lending. We're also having to deal with three huge structural problems that built up over several decades and have reached a point of criticality at the same time. 
And as Mohamed El-Erian, the C.E.O. of Pimco, has been repeating, ''Structural problems need structural solutions.'' There are no quick fixes. In America and Europe, we are going to need some big structural fixes to get back on a sustained growth path -- changes that will require a level of political consensus and sacrifice that has been sorely lacking in most countries up to now.
The first big structural problem is America's. We've just ended more than a decade of debt-fueled growth during which we borrowed money from China to give ourselves a tax cut and more entitlements but did nothing to curtail spending or make long-term investments in new growth engines. Now our government owes more than ever and has more future obligations than ever -- like expanded Medicare prescription drug benefits, expanded health care, an expanded war in Afghanistan and expanded Social Security payments (because the baby boomers are about to retire) -- and less real growth to pay for it all.
America will probably need some added stimulus to kick start employment, but any stimulus right now must be in growth-enabling investments that will yield more than their costs, or they just increase debt. That means investments in skill building and infrastructure plus tax incentives for starting new businesses and export promotion. To get a stimulus through Congress it must be paired with spending cuts and/or tax increases timed for when the economy improves.
Second, America's solvency inflection point is coinciding with a technological one. Thanks to Internet diffusion, the rise of cloud computing, social networking and the shift from laptops and desktops to hand-held iPads and iPhones, technology is destroying older, less skilled jobs that paid a decent wage at a faster pace than ever while spinning off more new skilled jobs that pay a decent wage but require more education than ever.
There is only one way to deal with this challenge: more innovation to stimulate new industries and jobs that can pay workers $40 an hour, coupled with a huge initiative to train more Americans to win these jobs over their global competitors. There is no other way.
But the global economy needs a healthy Europe as well, and the third structural challenge we face is that the European Union, a huge market, is facing what the former U.S. ambassador to Germany, John Kornblum, calls its first ''existential crisis.'' For the first time, he noted, the E.U. ''saw the possibility of collapse.'' Germany has made clear that if the eurozone is to continue, it will be on the German work ethic not the Greek one. Will its euro-partners be able to raise their games? Uncertain.
Keeping up with Germany won't be easy. A decade ago Germany was the ''sick man of Europe.'' No more. The Germans pulled together. Labor gave up wage hikes and allowed businesses to improve competitiveness and worker flexibility, while the government subsidized firms to keep skilled workers on the job in the downturn. Germany is now on the rise, but also not free of structural challenges. Its growth depends on exports to China and it is the biggest financier of Greece. Still, ''Germany is no longer the country with the oldest students and youngest retirees,'' said Kornblum.
By contrast, America's two big parties still cling to their core religious beliefs as if nothing has changed. Republicans try to undermine the president at every turn and offer their nostrum of tax-cuts-will-solve-everything -- without ever specifying what services they'll give up to pay for them. Mr. Obama gave us expanded health care before expanding the economic pie to sustain it.
You still don't sense our politicians are saying, ''Wait a minute; stop everything; we have got to work together.'' Don't these people have 401k plans of their own and kids worried about jobs?
The president needs to take America's labor, business and Congressional leadership up to Camp David and not come back without a grand bargain for taxes, trade promotion, energy, stimulus and budget cutting that offers the market some certainty that we are moving together -- not just on a bailout but on an economic rebirth for the 21st century. ''Fat chance,'' you say. Well then, I say get ready for a long phase of stubborn unemployment and anemic growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); TAX LAW (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MEDICARE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TAX INCREASES (69%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); TAX RELIEF (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (67%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); BABY BOOMERS (64%); SMARTPHONES (60%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (60%); TABLET COMPUTERS (60%); EXPORT PROMOTION (60%); CLOUD COMPUTING (60%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (54%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



424 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: 'Straddling Bus' Offered As a Traffic Fix in China

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER and ANDREA DENG

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- What do you do if your roads are congested and polluted? Try designing a vehicle that takes up no road space. And make it partly solar powered.
A company in the southern Chinese town of Shenzhen has done just that. To address the country's problems with traffic and air quality, Shenzhen Huashi Future Parking Equipment has developed a decidedly odd-looking, extra-wide and extra-tall vehicle that can carry up to 1,200 passengers.
Though it is called the ''straddling bus,'' Huashi's invention resembles a train in many respects -- but it requires neither elevated tracks nor extensive tunneling. Its passenger compartment spans the width of two traffic lanes and sits high above the road surface, on a pair of fencelike stilts that leave the road clear for ordinary cars to pass underneath. It runs along a fixed route. 
Huashi Future Parking's outsize invention -- six meters, or about 20 feet, wide -- is to be powered by a combination of municipal electricity and solar power derived from panels mounted on the roofs of the vehicles and at bus stops.
A pilot project for the vehicle is in the works in Beijing, and several other Chinese cities have shown interest.
The company says the vehicle -- which will travel at an average speed of 40 kilometers an hour, or about 25 m.p.h. -- could reduce traffic jams by 25 to 30 percent on main routes.
The straddling bus could replace up to 40 conventional buses, potentially saving the 860 tons of fuel that 40 buses would consume annually, and preventing 2,640 tons of carbon emissions, said Youzhou Song, the vehicle's designer.
''I had the idea when I was doing research on the road for the designs of innovative parking slots for bikes and cars,'' Mr. Song, who founded the company with several partners in 2009, said by phone last week. ''I saw the traffic jams and wondered if it's possible to make buses high up in the air as well.''
The design highlights a range of issues that have come with China's explosive economic growth.
The nation's urban population has expanded rapidly in recent years. In a report last year, the consulting firm McKinsey estimated that an additional 350 million people -- more than the population of the United States -- would move to the cities by 2015. More than 220 cities will have more than one million people. By comparison, Europe has 35 such cities now.
All this has caused a vast need for urban infrastructure, with McKinsey estimating that 170 new mass transit systems could be built in China by 2025.
At the same time, rising affluence has caused the number of cars -- and traffic jams -- to soar.
China is the world's largest polluter, and Beijing is eager to reduce carbon emissions. The authorities have been pushing solar power and fuel-efficient transportation.
Huashi's invention appears to have received a preliminary seal of approval from Beijing. The capital's Mentougou district is testing the technology and plans to start building nine kilometers of route at the end of this year. If the test is successful, about 116 miles would be put in place.
''Mr. Song's design is in line with our concept of green transportation and our vision of the future. We hope to start the construction and operation as soon as possible,'' said Wenbo Zhang, head of the science and technology commission of Mentougou district, though he added that the necessary approvals would take time and investment.
Shijiazhuang, in Hebei Province, and Wuhu, in Anhui Province, have also applied to obtain financing for straddling bus systems, Mr. Song said, while Luzhou in Sichuan Province has shown interest.
The vehicles will be built by the China South Locomotive and Rolling Stock Corporation starting at the end of this month, Mr. Song said.
The cost of construction -- 50 million renminbi, or $7.4 million, for one bus and about 25 miles of route facilities -- is roughly one-tenth what it costs to build a subway of the same length, he said.
Huashi Future Parking's more modest inventions include space-saving vertical bicycle-parking sheds. The bike sheds have been sold to the municipal government of Nanchang, in Jiangxi Province, and to a factory in Dongguan, in the southern province of Guangdong, Mr. Song said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rendering of the bus on the road. The vehicle would run on a combination of solar power and municipal electricity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHENZHEN HUASHI FUTURE PARKING EQUIPMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); CITIES (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (75%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



425 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Role for U.S. Is Affirmed

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration has been barraged with ideas for reworking the government's role in housing finance, spanning the spectrum from guaranteeing all mortgageloans to eliminating all federal subsidies for homeownership.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, speaking Tuesday at a conference to discuss the possibilities, made clear that the administration was not pondering such radical kinds of surgery as it develops a proposal it hopes to unveil in January.
Rather, Mr. Geithner -- and the conference after his remarks -- focused largely on drafting a new and improved version of the current system, in which the government subsidizes mortgage loans made by private companies. 
Mr. Geithner said continued government support was important ''to make sure that Americans can borrow at reasonable interest rates to buy a house even in a downturn.'' The absence of such support, Mr. Geithner said, would deepen future recessions because unsubsidized private companies would curtail lending.
The administration convened dozens of leading experts on housing finance at the Treasury on Tuesday in a show of public engagement with the politically charged topic, including the future of the mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Almost two years have passed since the government took them over.
The slow pace of work has become a political liability. Republicans have hammered the decision not to address Fannie and Freddie in the legislation overhauling financial regulation that President Obama signed into law last month, arguing that Democrats should have focused on dealing with the two companies.
Democrats have argued that it was impossible to deal with both issues at once, and that it made sense to delay debate until the housing market began to return to normal.
Mr. Geithner took a different line on Tuesday, however, asserting that the process of reforming housing finance was already well under way, beginning with President George W. Bush's decision to seize the companies, and that the current administration has continued to reform the companies' business practices.
He also said that it remained important to take the time ''to get reform right.''
''We must take this opportunity to build a more stable housing finance system that better protects American taxpayers,'' Mr. Geithner said.
Administration officials have been debating the possibilities almost since the day that Mr. Obama took office. Those discussions increasingly center on creating a better kind of backstop for mortgage lending, officials said.
The current system relies on Fannie and Freddie, which buy loans from banks and other lenders, then sell packages of those loans to investors with a promise to cover any losses. Before 2008, investors assumed that the government, in turn, would backstop Fannie and Freddie. The federal takeover of the companies simply validated that assumption. It left unchanged the mechanism by which the government guarantees loans.
Fannie and Freddie now buy about two-thirds of new mortgage loans.
A number of academics and representatives of the lending industry said at the conference that this decades-old model should be swept away. They argued that the government should assume a new, more limited role, offering insurance that would cover only catastrophic losses, like those after the collapse of a housing bubble.
Ingrid Gould Ellen, an urban policy professor at New York University, said that private lenders should ''hold the first risk'' of absorbing losses. The government should step in only once private reserves, including private insurance, have been exhausted.
Others, however, argued that mortgage lending would not recover unless the government continued to play a more active role. More than 9 in 10 new mortgages now carry a government guarantee. Bill Gross, a founder of the Pacific Investment Management Company, a leading investor in mortgage securities, said those guarantees were necessary to persuade investors to put money into mortgages.
''To suggest that there's a large place for private financing in the future of American housing finance is unrealistic,'' Mr. Gross said.
Mr. Gross said Pimco would not invest in bundles of mortgages that lacked government insurance unless the borrowers had made down payments of 30 percent or more.
The administration is still considering these and other options. The choice will reflect in large part a judgment about how hard the government should try to increase homeownership. Broader guarantees create greater risks for taxpayers, but also lower interest rates, bringing ownership within reach for more families.
Shaun Donovan, the housing secretary and a host of the conference with Mr. Geithner, said that the administration remained committed to ''broad access to homeownership, including options for those families who have historically been shut out of these markets.''
Even if the current approach to guarantees is basically preserved, Fannie and Freddie are unlikely to survive in recognizable form. Taxpayers have spent more than $150 billion covering losses that the companies incurred in recent years, largely by investing in lower-quality mortgage loans to bolster profits. The companies, once broadly popular, are now badly tarnished.
Largely untouched at the conference, however, was the question of how to get rid of them. Fannie and Freddie still own vast portfolios of troubled loans. Fannie, for example, expects to lose money on the loans it acquired in every year from 2005 to 2008 -- loans that still make up 47 percent of its total holdings.
The companies cannot be completely shut down until those losses are absorbed, a process expected to drag on for years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, center, at an administration conference on housing finance on Tuesday in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); TAKEOVERS (74%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



426 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Rein In Borrowers To Fix Mortgages

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and ROBERT CYRAN

 BODY:
Fixing mortgage finance involves more than just Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the private home loan market. The Obama administration was right to finally put the bailed-out mortgage giants on center stage at a conference convened on Tuesday. But the crisis had a third leg: borrowers got ahead of themselves.
In the decade of easy money before the crash, home ownership rates shot up to 69 percent by 2004 from a historical and fairly steady average since the 1960s of roughly 64 percent. This effectively means about five million properties were bought by people who perhaps should never have owned them. The rate dropped back to about 67 percent as of June, implying part of the excess has been painfully worked out. 
Some of the ways to limit future bubbles aren't new.
First, borrowers should have to make a healthy down payment. By 2006, some 70 percent of subprime borrowers had mortgages worth at least as much as their real estate.
Second, lenders should concentrate on the borrower's ability to repay the loan rather than on the potential increase in value of the property. The crash has already imposed some of this discipline. But credit standards will loosen again and regulators must be ready to rein in recklessness.
A third idea is less obvious: Give lenders recourse to the borrower when a home loan goes sour, not just to the property. That's how Canada does it. It's no panacea, but being on the hook ought to discourage home buyers from borrowing more than they can really afford.
A fourth idea would be to curtail the ability to refinance. The United States market is almost unique in offering 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages that can be refinanced at lower rates at little cost because of Fannie and Freddie's participation. But the uncertainty and built-in expense discourage private sector mortgage lending.
The last in a handful of possibilities would be to reduce or eliminate the tax deductibility of interest. Of course, all these measures would make mortgages harder to get, more expensive, or both. But considering the recent damage caused by blind belief in the dream of home ownership, it might be no bad thing.
Potent Potash
BHP Billiton's $39 billion offer for the Potash Corporation could be the first of several battles to control a corner of the fertilizer market. Potash demand plummeted in 2009. But it looks likely to recover strongly. And high entry costs favor acquisitions over digging new mines.
Potash sales in 2009 were close to 30 million metric tons, about half the amount sold in 2007, according to Scotia Capital. Farmers affected by a weak economy can delay application for a season or two, and other fertilizers act as imperfect substitutes. But eventually plants yield less and sicken more.
The Potash Corporation, the largest producer, estimates global demand should surge to around 55 million metric tons in 2011. This would put the industry at about 90 percent operating capacity even without taking into account the need to restock depleted inventories. That should mean fat profits for producers.
Fertilizer use should also be driven higher over the long run by population growth and the tendency of people to eat different foods as they gain wealth -- especially meat, which calls for lots of fertilized feed for cattle. Demand from China is currently weak, but the country's need for fertilizer and imported foods look important for Potash's future.
Agricultural investment is getting hotter. For interested players, it is relatively cheap and fast to add capacity to produce nitrogen-based fertilizers. Phosphate-based soil enrichers are somewhat more difficult and expensive. But the mining of potassium-rich potash comes with the highest barriers to entry of the three. It can take several billion dollars and seven years to build a new site.
That makes deals more tempting. A Russian oligarch is trying to unite Uralkali with Silvinit to create the second-largest potash producer in the world. The activity leaves the likes of the Potash Corporation and Mosaic, a rival in the United States, sitting pretty.
With the two companies' shares trading far below their 2008 peaks and at multiples of about 19 and 12 times their respective estimated earnings for next year -- even after BHP's move sent the stocks soaring -- any bidding wars could push prices in the sector higher.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Potash Corporation plant in Louisiana. BHP Billiton bid $39 billion for Potash, a fertilizer maker, betting that fertilizer sales will grow as the global economy recovers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DERICK E. HINGLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (84%); FERTILIZERS (84%); POTASH SODA & BORATE MINING (84%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (76%); FERTILIZER MFG (65%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (62%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (62%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); BHP BILLITON PLC (81%); POTASH CORP OF SASKATCHEWAN INC (64%)

TICKER: BLT (LSE) (81%); BIBLT (JSE) (81%); BBL (NYSE) (81%); POT (TSX) (64%); POT (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (81%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (81%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (81%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (81%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (81%); NAICS212392 PHOSPHATE ROCK MINING (64%); NAICS212391 POTASH, SODA & BORATE MINERAL MINING (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



427 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Potash Producer Rejects Buyout, Riveting Attention on a Commodity

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED; Ian Austen reported from Ottawa, and Michael J. de la Merced from New York. Cyrus Sanati contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
OTTAWA -- Rising demand for food from the fast-growing economies of the world has provoked a staggering $38.6 billion cash offer for a Canadian fertilizer company.
The company, the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan, on Tuesday rejected the overture from BHP Billiton, the world's largest mining company. Yet the unsolicited offer, which would be the biggest takeover so far this year, raised investors' hopes of a revival in deals, bolstering stocks worldwide.
The major measures of the United States market rose more than 1 percent on Tuesday, as basic materials stocks led all sectors in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. The S.& P. 500 had its biggest gain in two weeks. 
Amid the heady talk of mergers, economists and analysts cautioned against assuming that the offer was a clear signal that commodities were finally shaking off the effects of the global recession. Instead, the interest of the British-Australian BHP in Potash, the world's largest producer of potash, a crucial ingredient in most fertilizers, has more to do with global changes in food production and the peculiarities of the potash market, they said.
''Fertilizer, and in particular potash, is a particularly unique product,'' said Murray Fulton, an economist at the University of Saskatchewan. ''What you have in the potash industry are a set of players that are able to control supply and price.''
Rising standards of living and development in China, one of the world's largest consumers of fertilizer, and India are putting increasing pressure on farmers to produce more crops from a declining amount of agricultural land. Their most effective solution for increasing yields is commercial fertilizers from Potash and other fertilizer makers.
''Potash, for all intents and purposes, is food,'' said Vincent Andrews, the agriculture analyst for Morgan Stanley. ''Because without potash, you are not making corn and soybean, and without corn and soybean, you are not making chicken or beef, and that's what people want to eat.''
Of the three main ingredients in most fertilizers, potash is arguably the most valuable. Nitrogen is produced from natural gas, and good quality phosphate deposits are found throughout the world. Potash produces all three ingredients in various countries.
When food prices spiraled upward in 2007 and 2008, prices for potash also surged. When the global recession hit and food prices sank, many farmers simply stopped using fertilizer or greatly limited its application.
William J. Doyle, the president and chief executive of Potash, said Tuesday that farmers who had not being using fertilizer recently were ''mining the soil.'' While farmers can get away with that for one growing season or so, crop yields decline sharply after that as the soil becomes depleted of nutrients.
Potash described BHP's offer as an effort to exploit a downturn in the fertilizer market.
But by disclosing that it had received, and refused, the informal offer, Potash appeared to have effectively put itself on the block.
''This proposal, sorry as it was, has put a very bright, focused light on the value of Potash,'' Mr. Doyle said.
BHP has made little secret of its desire to enter the generally lucrative market for fertilizers, in part because of the long-term trend for increased demand. It has bought several smaller producers in Saskatchewan, which has some of the world's richest deposits of the mineral, and last year announced tentative plans to build a mine there.
Acquiring Potash would help BHP expand its geographical reach into developed countries and bolster its offerings beyond mining. BHP has also been under pressure from its shareholders to deploy capital and take advantage of its balance sheet, which does not carry a heavy amount of debt. BHP's chairman, Jacques Nasser, a former chief executive of Ford Motor, wrote in a letter to Potash's board that the company's proposal would be fully financed. BHP has hired JPMorgan Chase and Toronto-Dominion Bank as financial advisers.
Some analysts have speculated that another mining concern -- like Rio Tinto or Vale of Brazil -- may emerge as a rival bidder, though on Tuesday people close to BHP emphasized the strength of the company's balance sheet and financing commitments.
At a meeting on Thursday, BHP's chief executive, Marius Kloppers, handed Mr. Doyle a letter outlining the proposal.
BHP's offer values Potash at $130 a share, a 16 percent premium to its closing price on Monday. Potash's shares trade mainly on the New York Stock Exchange, where they surged 28 percent to $143.17 on Tuesday.
BHP shares fell 3.5 percent by late afternoon in Australia on Wednesday, as investors fretted about the high cost of the potential acquisition. Moody's warned that it was likely to put BHP's credit rating under review for a possible downgrade if a formal takeover offer was made.
But the ratings agency also said that BHP's long-term rating was unlikely to fall below A2, from A1 now. An acquisition of a company like Potash, Moody's said in a statement, ''would moderately enhance BHP Billiton's business profile, further increasing its asset and geographic diversity as well as substantially raising its presence in potash, which has solid medium/long term fundamentals.''
BHP is likely to present a formal takeover offer to Potash's shareholders within days, said people briefed on the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the plan.
''I'm not saying that we're opposed to a sale,'' Mr. Doyle said. ''We are opposed to a steal of the company.''
Any sale of Potash will be politically charged in the company's home province. Royalties from potash mines account for a substantial portion of its government's revenues.
The company was formed by the provincial government in 1975 when it nationalized potash mines in Saskatchewan. While it sold its final interest in the company in 1989, provincial law still requires that the company be headquartered in the province.
Bill Boyd, the province's minister of energy and resources, said any buyer could fulfill that requirement by simply making the province the headquarters of its potash business.
While Mr. Boyd was confident that the broad public would not demand that Potash remain independent, he had no doubt that there would be controversy.
''Potash and public debate are not all that far apart in Saskatchewan,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A pile of processed potash, used in fertilizer, at a storage center in Colonsay, Saskatchewan. (B1)
 Shawn Mahalus, an engineer, checking mining equipment in the Mosaic Potash Colonsay mine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID STOBBE/REUTERS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); FERTILIZER MFG (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FERTILIZERS (90%); POTASH SODA & BORATE MINING (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); AGRICULTURE (87%); MERGERS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MINES & MINING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); CROP PRODUCTION (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: POTASH CORP OF SASKATCHEWAN INC (93%); BHP BILLITON PLC (85%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

TICKER: POT (TSX) (93%); POT (NYSE) (93%); BLT (LSE) (85%); BIBLT (JSE) (85%); BBL (NYSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212392 PHOSPHATE ROCK MINING (93%); NAICS212391 POTASH, SODA & BORATE MINERAL MINING (93%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (85%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (85%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (85%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (85%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (94%) CANADA (94%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



428 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Shares Post Sharp Gains, Helped by Earnings Reports

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Tuesday, sending the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to its biggest gain in two weeks, after some good earnings from retailers and news of a $39 billion bid for the Potash Corporation.
Wal-Mart Stores climbed 1.2 percent and Home Depot jumped 3.4 percent as both retailers raised their full-year earnings forecasts.
Potash, based in Canada, led a rally in fertilizer shares, surging 28 percent, after it rejected an unsolicited takeover offer from BHP Billiton. Johnson & Johnson gained 2.1 percent after a Berkshire Hathaway disclosure that it had increased its stake in the company. 
The S.& P. 500 climbed 13.16 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,092.54. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 103.84 points, or 1 percent, to 10,405.85. The Nasdaq rose 27.57 points, or 1.26 percent, to 2,209.44.
''Stocks look cheap,'' said Jeff Saut, the chief investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates in St. Petersburg, Fla. ''Earnings look really good. The consumer is in better shape than the headlines would suggest. Corporations are flush with cash, and it's cheaper to buy assets than to build them. There's not a whole lot of downside for stocks. We may challenge the highs for the year.''
All 10 industries in the S.& P. 500 rallied more than 0.7 percent on Tuesday. The index had fallen 11 percent through Monday since climbing to a 2010 high of 1,217.28 on April 23. The retreat dragged its valuation to less than 13 times the forecast profit of its companies, near an almost 16-month low of 12.5 on July 2.
Stronger economic news also helped stocks. Industrial production rose 1 percent in July, double the median economist forecast. Wholesale costs increased in July for the first time in four months.
The producer price index increased 0.2 percent, and a measure excluding food and energy costs climbed 0.3 percent, more than projected and the biggest gain since January.
Government data also showed a smaller-than-estimated increase in housing starts and a slump in building permits to the lowest level in more than a year.
Agilent Technologies had the largest gain in the S.& P. 500, rising 7.8 percent, to $29.28. Agilent, a maker of scientific-testing equipment, raised its full-year forecast after third-quarter earnings exceeded forecasts.
Potash, the world's largest fertilizer producer, rejected the takeover proposal from BHP, saying it was ''grossly inadequate,'' and adopted a shareholder rights plan as a defense.
Potash jumped 28 percent, to $143.17. Fertilizer stocks have more room to rally on better-than-expected near-term demand and strong price momentum, Robert Koort, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, said in a note on Tuesday. The firm also raised CF Industries Holdings, a producer of nitrogen fertilizer, to conviction buy from neutral.
Mosaic Company, also a large fertilizer producer, gained 8.7 percent, to $55.60. CF Industries climbed 4.7 percent, to $88.53.
The Pactiv Corporation, which makes Hefty trash bags, jumped 5.4 percent, to $32.58, after it agreed to be bought by Reynolds Group Holdings in a transaction valued at about $6 billion.
Global takeovers have totaled $1.22 trillion so far this year, up 17 percent from the same time last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
''BHP's bid for Potash signals that we may be at beginning of a big wave of mergers and acquisitions, which can help support the market,'' said Tom Wirth, senior investment officer for Chemung Canal Trust based in Elmira, N.Y. ''It's a matter of confidence and investors wanting to put their money back into stocks again.''
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 19/32, to 99 30/32. The yield rose to 2.63 percent, from 2.56 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); RETAILERS (90%); FERTILIZER MFG (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); FERTILIZERS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (85%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); HOUSING STARTS (63%); BUILDING PERMITS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS (50%)

COMPANY: BHP BILLITON PLC (83%); AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES INC (81%); POTASH CORP OF SASKATCHEWAN INC (72%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (71%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (57%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (55%)

TICKER: BLT (LSE) (83%); BIBLT (JSE) (83%); BBL (NYSE) (83%); A (NYSE) (81%); POT (TSX) (72%); POT (NYSE) (72%); JNJ (NYSE) (71%); GS (NYSE) (58%); WMT (NYSE) (58%); BRK.B (NYSE) (57%); BRK.A (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (83%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (83%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (83%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (83%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (83%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (81%); NAICS212392 PHOSPHATE ROCK MINING (72%); NAICS212391 POTASH, SODA & BORATE MINERAL MINING (72%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (75%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



429 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan's Unfolding Disaster: A Trade Deal to Help Rebuild

 BODY:
One of the best long-term ways to help Pakistan -- and improve America's image there -- is to help Pakistanis help themselves. That is why President George W. Bush and now President Obama have pushed for slashing protective tariffs on the textiles and apparel products that are Pakistan's biggest exports to the United States. 
Congress has instead chosen partisanship and protectionism over such good sense. We hope this tragedy will finally get lawmakers to do what's needed. Reducing or eliminating tariffs costs the American taxpayer nothing, lowers consumer prices here and the benefits would flow directly into the Pakistani civilian economy where it is desperately needed.
The trade legislation that finally emerged from the House last year was so hemmed in with protectionist limits that it was almost worthless.
It covers only exports from mountainous border provinces where the terrain and security conditions are inhospitable to industry and from which transport costs to Pakistan's main port of Karachi are prohibitive. It reduces tariffs mainly on textile products, rather than the apparel items where Pakistan is most competitive -- cotton shirts, blue jeans, trousers, socks and underwear.
The Senate has failed to pass any tariff reductions largely because Republicans have objected to sound language in the House bill endorsing basic international labor standards for Pakistani export workers. These are especially important in a country rife with child labor abuses and a justice system that winks at the crimes of the well connected. President Obama needs to go back to Capitol Hill and press both houses to pass a far bolder trade liberalization bill.
Any legislation must knock down tariff barriers on all Pakistani textile and apparel exports -- wherever they are produced. That includes the restive border area, the flood-ravaged heartland and the more industrialized coastal region.
Despite what the dwindling number of American producers say, reducing or eliminating those tariffs would mainly cut into the sales of other Asian-made jeans and T-shirts.
Until now, textiles and apparel accounted for 60 percent of Pakistan's total exports and 40 percent of its manufacturing jobs. The industry is sure to be staggered by the floods, which washed away 20 percent of the annual cotton crop and destroyed major power stations that supply electricity to factories. Reviving this industry is critical to Pakistan's hopes for future stability and prosperity.
American companies, and their Congressional supporters, will scream at easing tariffs. They should not be allowed to trump America's national security interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TEXTILES (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (68%); CHILD LABOR (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); COTTON FARMING (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (66%); COASTAL AREAS (63%); POWER PLANTS (60%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) PAKISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



430 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Given Money for Rehiring, Schools Wait and See

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH. 
Michael Powell contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As schools handed out pink slips to teachers this spring, states made a beeline to Washington to plead for money for their ravaged education budgets. But now that the federal government has come through with $10 billion, some of the nation's biggest school districts are balking at using their share of the money to hire teachers right away.
With the economic outlook weakening, they argue that big deficits are looming for the next academic year and that they need to preserve the funds to prevent future layoffs. Los Angeles, for example, is projecting a $280 million budget shortfall next year that could threaten more jobs.
''You've got this herculean task to deal with next year's deficit,'' said Lydia L. Ramos, a spokeswoman for the Los Angeles Unified School District, the nation's second-largest after New York City. 
''So if there's a way that you can lessen the blow for next year,'' she said, ''we feel like it would be responsible to try to do that.''
The district laid off 682 teachers and counselors and about 2,000 support workers this spring and was not sure it would be able to hire any of them back with the stimulus money. The district says it could be forced to cut 4,500 more people next year.
In New York City, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg committed to no teacher layoffs this year in exchange for not offering raises. A spokeswoman said the city's budget had already taken the federal aid into account.
In New Jersey, where about 3,000 teachers were let go in May, Gov. Chris Christie's administration worries that the federal aid will only forestall difficult decisions later, and it is unclear how much will be spent immediately.
''It's a real double-edged sword,'' said Michael Drewniak, a spokesman for the governor. ''This money will not be there next year, and we're not going to get back up to the funding that they had previously been used to.''
A $26 billion federal aid package, signed by President Obama on Aug. 10, allocates $10 billion for school districts to retain or rehire teachers, counselors, classroom aides, cafeteria workers, bus drivers and others -- with the remainder of the money directed toward health care for the poor, emergency personnel and other state purposes.
The education measure requires states to distribute the money for the current school year, but allows school districts to spend it as late as September 2012. It also allows schools to roll back furlough days. The education department estimates it could salvage about 160,000 jobs.
''We can't stand by and do nothing while pink slips are given to the men and women who educate our children or keep our communities safe,'' President Obama said last week. ''That doesn't make sense.''
Though preserving jobs will be good for the economy, it will disappoint out-of-work teachers and parents who have been expecting a surge in rehiring. Many districts, like Kansas City, Kan., face the likelihood of midyear cuts, and administrators will count themselves lucky to save jobs. In the nation's fifth-largest district in Clark County in Las Vegas, administrators are eager to hire some teachers, though they wonder what they will do when the federal money runs out.
''We're a little wary about hiring people if we only have money for a year, but we know that's the intent of this bill,'' said Jeff Weiler, chief financial officer for Clark County schools.
In Texas, Republican Gov. Rick Perry so far has rejected the new federal education dollars. Should he relent, Houston's superintendent, Terry B. Grier, proposes to use $40 million to $70 million of it to extend the school day and year, and to hire tutors. He does not plan to rehire 414 people -- including quite a few certified teachers -- laid off from the central office staff.
''We can't treat this money as if it's a supplement to a jobs bill,'' Mr. Grier said. ''I want to put people to work to help children.''
Still other obstacles loom for districts, not the least of which is timing. School has resumed in many districts in struggling states, including Arizona, California and Illinois. Assigning new teachers and juggling classrooms could disrupt students. In California, the budget picture is further clouded by the state's failure to pass its own budget for the coming year.
Even administrators in districts that start school after Labor Day have only weeks to rearrange class rosters. And with classes largely set in many places, they might more quickly deploy the money by hiring support personnel, like those tutors in Houston.
In Arizona, where most schools opened this month, nonteaching employees are more likely to be recalled. ''It would be hard to add teachers this year,'' said Paul Senseman, a spokesman for Gov. Jan Brewer. ''But the funds could be used on any school-level position like counselors, after-school programs, aides, nurses or coaches.''
Teachers' unions are strongly urging districts to use the money right away to keep class sizes manageable and to reduce the jobless rolls. ''The intent is to help districts avert layoffs now,'' said Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers. ''Kids don't have a pause button.''
Joelle Beck, a 25-year-old high school English teacher in O'Fallon, Ill., received notice in March that she would be laid off at the end of the school year. She recently was hired to oversee an in-school suspension program for just over half the pay she received as a classroom teacher.
''When the economy first started going downhill,'' Ms. Beck said, ''I naively told my husband, 'Well, they're always going to need teachers.' ''
With the national unemployment rate stuck at 9.5 percent and private sector companies hiring cautiously, local governments are an important source of jobs and consumer spending power.
State and local governments have let go 102,000 more employees than they have added in the last three months, and economists are concerned that with revenue so depressed, school payrolls could shrink more in coming months.
Though grateful for the aid, districts like Los Angeles are worried about how to create some budget stability year to year. In Pomona, Calif., the district has yet to decide whether to hire back about 68 teachers laid off in the spring.
''We're also looking at a pretty bad budget, so we may decide to hold all or some of the money for the next year,'' said Steve Horowitz, assistant superintendent of personnel services at the Pomona Unified School District. He added that the money might be used for bus drivers or custodians, or to roll back five furlough days for teachers.
Administrators in South Florida hope that an economic upturn, particularly in travel and tourism, will help close their future budget gap and are planning to bring back teachers. At the Broward County Public Schools, an operating deficit of at least $145 million is expected next school year.
''Frankly, from my perspective, it's better to hire them now,'' said James F. Notter, superintendent for Broward. Of the 1,300 pink slips to school workers in the spring, about 555 went to teachers. The district has recalled nearly 400 of them and now hopes to use the federal aid to rehire the remaining 155.
Teachers who spent the summer in limbo are painfully aware that at best, the new federal aid may be a temporary lifeline. Latravis Bernard, who was laid off last spring as a physical education teacher at an elementary school in Miramar, Fla., for the second year in a row, is holding out hope he will be recalled.
In the meantime, Mr. Bernard, a 33-year-old father of four, has accepted a post as a special education intern, for half his previous pay, at a different school in the Broward district.
''Even if I get brought back this year,'' he said, ''what's going to happen next year? It's really discouraging.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joelle Beck, laid off from her teaching job in O'Fallon, Ill., was hired at half the salary to run an in-school suspension program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIRGINIA LEE HUNTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A 2009 job fair for teachers. The stimulus bill was intended to rehire 160,000 workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE RIEDEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); PARAEDUCATORS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (78%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); MAYORS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (70%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



431 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: News Corp. Gives G.O.P. $1 Million

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU and BRIAN STELTER; Eric Lichtblau reported from Washington, and Brian Stelter from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With Republicans hoping to recapture a number of statehouses in November, the media conglomerate headed by Rupert Murdoch is inserting itself into the races in bold fashion with a $1 million donation to the Republican Governors Association.
The contribution from Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation, which owns Fox News, The Wall Street Journal, The New York Post and other news outlets, is one of the biggest ever given by a media organization, campaign finance experts said. 
Democrats seized on the donation as evidence of the News Corporation's conservative leanings, with Media Matters for America, a liberal group that has tangled often with the company, calling it ''an appendage of the Republican Party.''
But News Corporation executives said the political priorities at the Republican Governors Association and its emphasis on low taxes and economic growth dovetailed with the company's own concerns. ''News Corp. has always believed in the power of free markets, and organizations like the R.G.A., which have a pro-business agenda, support our priorities at this most critical time for our economy,'' said Jack Horner, a company spokesman.
Mr. Horner said that the company's corporate side made the donation with no involvement by its news operation and that the gift would not have any impact on newsgathering operations. ''There is a strict wall between business and editorial,'' he added.
Officials at the governors' association did not respond to requests for comment. The contribution, first reported by Bloomberg News, was made in June and is included in the Republican group's most recent second-quarter filings.
Over all, the group received $19 million in donations during the quarter, far outpacing the Democratic Governors Association in a campaign when 37 governors' seats are up for grabs, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a private research group.
The News Corporation's contribution was one of three donations of $1 million or more that the Republican group received in the last quarter, with the Michigan Chamber of Commerce donating $1.48 million and David Koch, executive vice president of Koch Industries, giving $1 million.
The biggest donation to the Democratic governors' group was $500,000 from the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
Democrats now hold 26 governors' seats, but political analysts say that Republicans appear poised to pick up more in November even in states long dominated by Democrats. At stake is not only control of states' executive branches, but also influence over the redrawing of Congressional district lines next year -- a once-in-a-decade process.
The News Corporation and its political action committee, News America Holdings, have given donations over the years to both Democratic and Republican candidates and causes, but never in the amount approaching the June donation, records show.
As a ''527'' political association, the Republican governors' group can raise unlimited amounts of money from corporate donors and individuals, and it was free to do so even before the Supreme Court's landmark ruling this year in the Citizens United case. That ruling freed corporations to make direct political expenditures to influence campaigns, for instance, through media buys and commercials.
Dave Levinthal, a spokesman for the Center for Responsive Politics, said seven-figure donations from anyone to ''527'' associations were unusual, but a $1 million donation from a news organization was particularly rare.
The donation generated significant buzz in Washington on Tuesday. Much of it focused on Fox News, whose stable of highly rated, conservative hosts have made it the frequent target of liberals, who accuse the network of blurring the line between news and opinion.
In an e-mail to reporters, the Democratic National Committee said the donation showed that Fox News' well-known mantra, ''Fair and Balanced,'' had been ''rendered utterly meaningless.'' Hari Sevugan, a D.N.C. spokesman, added that Fox News' political coverage ''should have a disclaimer for what it truly is -- partisan propaganda.''
While many news organizations reported Tuesday on the $1 million gift, a late-afternoon search of Fox News' Web site produced no mention of it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rupert Murdoch 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CORPORATE GIVING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); NEWS REPORTING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); COUNTIES (68%); REDISTRICTING (62%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%); KOCH INDUSTRIES INC (52%); NEWS AMERICA HOLDINGS INC (50%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



432 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Karzai Orders Private Security Phaseout

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN; Sangar Rahimi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- President Hamid Karzai ordered a four-month phaseout of all private security companies in Afghanistan, domestic and foreign, a move that, if carried out, would create an extraordinary shift in the country's security, likely slowing many foreign projects and potentially delaying some day-to-day military activities.
The sole exception to the order allows private guards to continue to operate within compounds of embassies, consulates, nongovernmental organizations and economic organizations, like the World Bank. 
Mr. Karzai had previously expressed interest in regulating both Afghan security companies, which in some cases act as private armies for other power brokers, and foreign companies, some of which have been involved in civilian casualties. But the scale of his order and the short timetable struck many as a political gesture that served to remind both the Afghans who use the companies and Mr. Karzai's foreign allies of his leverage.
The timetable was so abbreviated that analysts questioned whether it might be delayed and changed as more detailed rules to carry it out were negotiated. However, there was support for the overall goal. Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, who was on a two-day visit here, said a reorganization of the country's security was called for.
''It is in his interest to build his own security capacity as fast as possible,'' said Mr. Kerry, adding that it was also in the Americans' interest. However, he said, the timetable would need to be worked out.
The order said that in the future, external security for embassies and nongovernmental organizations would be handled by the Interior Ministry and that security for convoys would be handled by the Afghan military. Security employees can decide to join the Interior Ministry, which supervises the police, the order said. The licensed companies can choose to sell their equipment, arms, ammunition and vehicles to the Interior and Defense Ministries before the order goes into effect. It is not clear if that would be an option afterward.
Any unlicensed security groups -- the exact number is unknown, but there are many -- would be subject to having their equipment confiscated.
The American military said it supported the goal of phasing out private security companies, but it also signaled that the four-month schedule was unrealistic.
''This is an undertaking that requires a deliberate process,'' said Maj. Joel Harper, a spokesman for the International Security Assistance Force, the NATO mission in Afghanistan.
''ISAF pledges to work closely with the Afghan government to help make this transition successful under a timeline that recognizes the scale and scope of this issue will take time to fully implement,'' he said.
A spokeswoman for the American Embassy here, Caitlin Hayden, said that private security companies were ''currently filling a gap.''
Stephen Biddle, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, added to skepticism about the short time frame.
''It can't possibly be just implemented in four months,'' he said. ''There has to be some sorting out. Who gets their contracts canceled, when and in what order, and that provides a lot of leeway for sorting what happens and to whom and when.''
Many of the operations carried out by foreigners -- whether that is building a bridge, supplying a NATO base or guarding an embassy -- rely on private security guards at some point in the process. The Kabul and Kandahar airports have some security services provided by a British company, Global Strategies Group. Many embassies augment their military guards with those of private security companies, as do international organizations working in the country.
The American government alone employs about 26,000 private security contractors who work for 37 private security companies, Major Harper said. Seventeen of those companies are Afghan, he added. In all, 52 private security companies are licensed by the Interior Ministry.
A British-based security company, G4S, which has 1,500 employees who work for governments and NGOs, was ''discussing the potential implications with our customers,'' according to Alison Flynn, a company spokeswoman. Another British-based security company, Hart Security, refused to respond to any questions about the order.
Some Afghan security company owners were aghast at the order's breadth and argued that it could fuel the insurgency by increasing unemployment and prompting unemployed people to look to illegal means to feed their families. Many Afghan security operatives work as subcontractors to Western security companies or NATO troops.
''There are already lots of jobless people in our society, and in addition to that the government wants to make 50,000 more people jobless?'' said Emal Khan, who runs a security company based in Kandahar that works with a British security company to protect NATO convoys on routes in southern and central Afghanistan.
''These people have no choice but to start robbing people or join the Taliban,'' he said.
The police typically pay at best $240 a month for a regular policeman, while many guards for security companies earn at least twice that, Mr. Khan said.
''The government is not able to protect their own strongholds and buildings,'' he said, asking how they could ever protect NATO convoys, especially if there were more unemployed, disaffected people who could be recruited by the Taliban.
Three NATO soldiers were killed in eastern Afghanistan on Tuesday. Two died when bombs exploded near them, and a third was killed elsewhere in the region when an improvised explosive device exploded.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (89%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ARMIES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



433 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: A Dream of a Contemporary Art Museum on the Jersey Shore

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
ASBURY PARK, N.J. -- When Robin Parness Lipson walks along the boardwalk here, she does not focus on the shirtless old men with fishing poles, the concrete relics of failed condominium developments or the pigeons who have taken up roost in the neglected Beaux-Arts landmarks along the shore.
What she sees are the bustling new restaurants and gift shops and the energy of a bright future being shaped. And as part of that future, she sees her baby, her dream, the New Jersey Museum of Contemporary Art: a glittering monument to the idea that New Jersey is not just the home of Snooki and the Situation, or feuding housewives, or the Bada Bing Club, but a place where cultured, philanthropic people can build something that makes a difference.
''We're creating a cultural brand, and it's going to rebrand the state,'' said Ms. Lipson, the wife of a parking garage developer, who came from humble beginnings and discovered a love of contemporary art only in the last few years. 
Ms. Lipson has not yet raised any of the $5 million it is projected that she will need to open the museum, nor does she have a lock on the boardwalk real estate she covets, or a team of slick consultants armed with surveys and statistics. But she is a bona fide expert at using charm, guileless candor, boundless energy and terms of endearment to bring home what she wants: a new museum on the Jersey Shore devoted to emerging artists.
''I'm blessed with this life right now,'' she said recently. ''And I have a choice,'' she went on. ''I could go to lunch and go shopping and, you know, do those things, or I can do something that might make somebody else's life a little richer.''
New museums are not born every day, and when they are, they are usually founded either by major art patrons -- Whitneys, Guggenheims, de Menils -- or, as in the case of the New Museum, by a visionary curator. Ms. Lipson is neither. But she does have the support of wealthy friends with a major art collection: Michael and Susan Hort. The Horts, who appear annually on ARTnews's list of the world's 200 top collectors, host a popular art party, a brunch at their TriBeCa loft, during the annual Armory Show.
Ms. Lipson also has a dozen young artists, curators, event planners and others who are part of her dream. These volunteers have done everything from build a Web site, njmoca.org, to plan an inaugural exhibition and gala on Oct. 23.
''It's just so different,'' Haley Mellin, a painter who is organizing the inaugural exhibition, said of Ms. Lipson's ideas for the museum, including pop-up exhibits around the state. ''I was really attracted to that vision.''
It was Ms. Hort who first showed Ms. Lipson around Chelsea and introduced her to the Armory Show and ArtBasel Miami Beach. Two years ago the Horts suggested that they might lend their collection, which includes pieces by John Currin, Chris Ofili, Elizabeth Peyton and others, to the Jersey City Museum, where Ms. Lipson was on the board, if the museum would change its mission to focus exclusively on contemporary art. Ms. Lipson loved the idea, but when the other trustees rejected her proposal, she resigned from the board and decided to go out on her own.
But even her friends were skeptical. In a phone interview Mr. Hort said that when Ms. Lipson first said she wanted to start a museum, ''I didn't think that it would ever get too far,'' primarily because of the fund-raising involved. But as time went by, Ms. Lipson decided to focus on getting a building donated, instead of constructing one, and it began to seem more practical, he said.
The building of her dreams is a 1920s power plant, designed by Warren & Wetmore, whose work includes Grand Central Terminal. Abandoned for 30 years, the plant is owned by the development company Madison Marquette, which owns much of the property on the boardwalk here.
Ms. Lipson tried to get a meeting with Madison Marquette's president, Gary Mottola, for weeks to make her pitch. She finally got it on a recent morning in a sunbaked conference room. Ms. Lipson was in a black skirt and sleeveless top and big sunglasses, Mr. Mottola in a Stone PonyT-shirt; a reporter attended.
Ms. Lipson noted that while New Jersey had many regional museums, it had nothing that drew international tourism.
''Except Madam Marie,'' Mr. Mottola interjected, referring to the stand of a former boardwalk fortuneteller made famous by Bruce Springsteen in his ''4th of July, Asbury Park (Sandy).''
Ms. Lipson said the museum would be an economic catalyst in the way that Mass MoCA, a contemporary art museum that opened in 1999, has been in North Adams, Mass. ''It was blighted; there was a high crime rate,'' she said.
Mr. Mottola appeared to take umbrage. Asbury Park, he said, was ''the biggest music destination in the world.'' The D.J. Tiesto had recently played at the Convention Center. And celebrity glamour? What about the New Jersey Hall of Fame, which has Jack Nicholson's second-grade report card and Susan Sarandon's cheerleading jacket in its temporary space on the boardwalk?
He might be interested in having an art museum, he said, but ''not in the context of 'We're blighted, this is going to make us unblighted,' '' he said. ''We're already way past that.''
Reflecting later, Ms. Lipson said it had been a learning experience. ''I didn't mean to denigrate what he's done with the music; that was my mistake,'' she said.
But she didn't feel defeated. She was able to interest Mr. Mottola in hosting the inaugural gala in another one of the company's buildings, the Paramount Theater, and she saw that as progress.
''I just have to bring him into our world,'' she said.
Joel Wachs, the president of the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, whom Ms. Lipson sought out for advice, said that he tried to convey to her some of the obstacles involved in starting a museum.
''But she just doesn't seem to be fazed by obstacles,'' he said with a laugh. ''She has this indomitable spirit, this great enthusiasm and this go-getter attitude, which I think is fabulous.''
The museum will depend on loans rather than having a collection, allowing it to operate more efficiently and avoid ''the crunch situations that major museums get into,'' Ms. Lipson said. As for the Horts' collection, ''If a curator comes and wants access to the collection, they can have it,'' she said.
The Horts, who have a home in Monmouth Beach, are planning to support the museum, and say they feel others will too. They haven't previously been major donors to existing museums. For Ms. Lipson, who keeps in daily touch with her young volunteers by phone, e-mail and Facebook, the museum is already bearing fruit as a community-builder.
''I'm so enriched by meeting everybody, and I'm having so much fun with this,'' she said, her voice bubbling with enthusiasm. ''I'm loving it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robin Parness Lipson, at home with Matthew Chambers's ''Rembrandt,'' left, and ''Follow Your Eyes,'' by Simone Lucas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
 Robin Parness Lipson is hoping this boarded-up power plant in Asbury Park will be the site of a New Jersey museum of contemporary art, featuring the collection of Michael and Susan Hort. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); ART COLLECTING (77%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); BRANDING (68%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



434 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Best Buy Takes Its Brand to a Times Square Theater

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
Two months after Irving Plaza reclaimed its old name, another Manhattan concert space is being rechristened.
On Sept. 14 the Nokia Theater in Times Square, a 2,100-capacity room owned by the national concert promoter AEG Live, will become the Best Buy Theater. The terms of Best Buy's contract with AEG for the naming rights on the space were not disclosed, but both parties called it a multiyear agreement.
When the Nokia opened in 2005, in the space formerly occupied by the Loews Astor Plaza movie theater, it had remarkable capital investment from AEG and was an unusual showcase for its title sponsor. Designed by David Rockwell, the architect behind several swank Nobu restaurants and W hotels, the theater cost $21 million, and Nokia used the lobby and corridors for stylish neon displays of its mobile phones. 
As the Best Buy Theater, the space will get some acoustical upgrades as well as new high-definition screens and a lounge area with interactive displays of some of the consumer electronics the company sells. Best Buy, which is based in Richfield, Minn., and has 1,089 big-box stores in the United States, is also planning to step up its use as a promotion zone by hosting corporate events like media-drenched product introductions.
''If you're going to shows, and you're going to shows in Times Square, then you're the kind of customer we want to build a relationship with,'' Drew Panayiotou, Best Buy's chief marketing officer of United States-based operations, said in an interview.
The theater will be Best Buy's first foray into naming rights for any entertainment site, a spokeswoman said. But while major corporations have long been making such deals with amphitheaters and concert halls, those arrangements have become less common as companies struggle with the weak economy and reconsider the value of top-tier sponsorships, which can range from a few hundred thousand dollars to millions a year.
As a result, theaters that just a few years ago were named for blue-chip companies have now made deals with much smaller and more regional businesses. In June the Ford Amphitheater in Tampa, Fla., was renamed the 1-800-Ask-Gary Amphitheater, after a local medical and legal referral service. Outside Denver, the former Fiddler's Green Amphitheater (once also known as the Coors Amphitheater) is now called the Comfort Dental Amphitheater.
''A lot of the bigger sponsors have said, 'We're not sure there is as good a return on our investment there as it might be just to take lower-level sponsorship,' '' said Jim Andrews, editorial director of IEG Sponsorship Report, a trade publication. ''So the folks going out there trying to market naming rights were left either greatly reducing their prices or finding companies that were less sophisticated and newer to the marketplace.''
A spokeswoman for Nokia said it did not renew its deal for the Times Square theater partly because the company wanted to focus on ''reaching customers where they consume content, online, as opposed to at a physical venue.'' Nokia still has arrangements with AEG for two prominent spaces in Los Angeles, the 7,000-capacity Nokia Theater and the 2,400-capacity Club Nokia.
Naming-rights deals often rankle fans, who can become so inured to the revolving door of corporate sponsorship that they might never fully adopt a new name. But Mr. Panayiotou said that with Best Buy's significance as one of the country's leading music retailers, the deal makes more sense than most.
''A lot of times naming-rights deals are tougher for consumers to digest because there isn't a natural connection between what happens there and the brand,'' Mr. Panayiotou said. ''In this case there is a great connection between our business and what happens there at the theater.''
''It will stick,'' he added.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about plans for the Nokia Theater in Times Square to be renamed Best Buy Theater, using information supplied by a publicist, referred imprecisely to the executive position that Drew Panayiotou holds at Best Buy. He is chief marketing officer of United States-based operations; he is not the company's top marketing officer. (Barry Judge, an executive vice president, is head of global marketing for Best Buy.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A computer rendering of the proposed marquee design for the Best Buy Theater, formerly the Nokia Theater, on Broadway. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVENT MARKETING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); RETAILERS (67%); NEW PRODUCTS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



435 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: Watermelons Get Personal

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
HOPE, Ark.
IN this dusty field filled with experimental watermelons off Highway 174, there is but one sound that matters.
It's a deep, soft pop, like a cork slipping free from a wine bottle. You hear it when a pocket knife cracks the green rind on a watermelon so full of wet fruit that the outside can barely contain the inside.
Terry Kirkpatrick, a professor of plant pathology at the University of Arkansas, spends a lot of time here popping open watermelons. He's searching for deeply colored flesh that is crisp but not crunchy and so juicy that pools fill the divots left by a spoon.
The taste has to be exceptionally sweet but just slightly vegetal, so you know it came from the earth and not the candy counter. 
These days, a good watermelon also has to ship well, which means a thick rind and a uniform shape. It has to be small enough so people pushing grocery carts in big-city stores will buy it. And it can't have seeds.
All of that describes his small hybrid triploid beauties with names like Precious Petite and Orchid Sweet. They are very likely the future for many watermelon farmers, but they are also heartbreakers for a lot of people around southwest Arkansas who miss the old-fashioned seeded melons that now grow in only a few fields.
In many ways, Hope, a town known for both President Bill Clinton and the giant melons that were celebrated at its annual Watermelon Festival last weekend, is a microcosm of the watermelon world these days.
Around Hope, people still talk with fondness about heavy, oblong watermelons with names like Jubilee, Black Diamond, Georgia Rattlesnake or even the Charleston Gray, a relative newcomer from the 1950s and the first watermelon bred to have a tougher rind for shipping.
All of them can grow bigger than most kitchens can handle, some stretching over 2 feet long and weighing more than 50 pounds.
They're the ones just right for greasing up and throwing in a pool for the kids to chase. You eat them ice cold, spitting the big black seeds at your brother.
And they are delicious, the kind of perfect watermelon an eater of grocery store melons can only fantasize about.
But they're increasingly hard to find. At roadside stands here, you're more likely to come across a hybrid called the Super Sweet 710 that farmers like Ernest Brown grow. It has seeds, sure, but it lacks some of the personality of the older varieties. It's just a bit flatter in flavor than the Jubilee Mr. Brown prefers. But the 710s are cheaper to grow, a little smaller and more uniform.
''You can handle them better and stack them better,'' he said.
The game, however, is in small, seedless melons.
Only about 2 of every 10 watermelons sold in the United States have seeds. And only a tiny percentage, agriculture experts estimate, are the old-fashioned heirloom varieties, all with seeds, that once made up all the watermelons in America.
The larger, more traditional-looking seedless ''picnic melon'' that flooded grocery stores in the 1980s still dominates the market. But the future is in what the industry calls personal melons, or the slightly larger icebox melons -- round balls of sweet without seeds and, some think, without character.
The personal melon, weighing no more than six pounds, accounts for only about 12 percent of retail sales, according to United States Department of Agriculture research.
But its popularity has grown steadily since the early part of this decade, when seedless hybrids like the Pure Heart and the Bambino began competing in the new cute-melon category.
''Most people, particularly the urban people, would rather have a small one,'' Dr. Kirkpatrick said. ''With the big ones, you fill up all your Tupperware containers and you're still not done.''
For farmers, much of the appeal of the smaller varieties is simple economics. Plant an Arkansas acre with big watermelons and you might get 40,000 pounds. An acre of personal melons will yield 65,000 to 80,000 pounds, Dr. Kirkpatrick figured.
The small melon is what sells at New York Greenmarkets and other farmers' markets. In Franklin Township, N.J., Susan Blew pumps out a steady supply of dark green Sugar Babies -- icebox melons, no more than 12 pounds. Sometimes she sells even rarer heirloom varieties like the Moon and Stars, which is larger still and whose deep green rind is stippled with what look like splotches of yellow paint.
She's never thought about growing those really big melons with all the seeds, though. For one thing, the climate's not right. And even if it were, she doubts they would sell.
''People just like a sweet, little melon,'' she said.
But in this part of Arkansas, where the soil is sandy and the summer hot enough at just the right time so the watermelons grow particularly sweet and big, that kind of change comes hard. Growing up here meant 40-pound watermelons, and even those were considered on the small side. You ate the first of them on the Fourth of July and spit your last seeds on Labor Day, when you were just about sick of watermelon anyway.
And for fun, you went and looked at the giant watermelons. They've been grown in Hope, like a sporting event, since the 1920s. The biggest compete for local honors and are still auctioned off at the annual watermelon festival here, held last weekend. The lesser ones supply the watermelon-eating and seed-spitting contests.
Hope dominates the international stage as well. The world's biggest watermelon on record, all 268 pounds and 8 ounces of it, was produced here in 2005. The man who grew it is Lloyd Bright, 67. Six world champions have come from his fields.
''When I was growing up, the guys were always talking big melons,'' said Mr. Bright, a retired biology teacher and school administrator who got into the big-melon game in 1973.
These giant watermelons, called Carolina Cross, grow so fast that a day or two after one shows up on the vine, it's the size of a small loaf of bread. They'll continue to put on three or four pounds a day. Mr. Bright sells a few of his biggest for $75 to $80, and he peddles the seeds online, sometimes getting $20 for a dozen from watermelons that topped 200 pounds.
''That's just enough to pay for the gas and fertilizer,'' he said.
Before he harvests the seeds, he cuts out the hearts and puts them in the refrigerator to eat. He says they're delicious, though his monsters weren't ripe when this reporter was standing in his fields late last month, hinting around for a taste. He won't harvest the biggest ones until later in August and September.
Those giant watermelons point up another division in this town that might be even deeper than the one between the economic promise of the personal melon and the tradition of the Jubilee.
''There's big and then there's good,'' Dr. Kirkpatrick said. Although a colleague in the plant pathology department, Clay Wingfield, is testing some Carolina Cross in the extension center's fields, neither is convinced that the little melons are the best for eating.
''I do, in fact, prefer the old standard watermelons, mainly for nostalgic reasons,'' Dr. Kirkpatrick said.
Still, some of the personal melons grown in his test fields can develop a texture and balance of flavor that rivals even the best Jubilee.
He's even going to grow some smaller watermelons next year for the local farmers' market, which Stephanie Buckley recently started eight miles from Hope in the historic town of Washington, population 148.
Ms. Buckley, who is not afraid to pair a sleeveless dress with cowboy boots, moved to Washington five years ago with her husband, Joe, the superintendent of the state park that envelops Washington. She is a transplanted Mississippi debutante turned farmer, an admirer of the agriculture guru Joel Salatin, and a woman who says she loves the Lord and hates hypocrites. She blogs about all of it as The Park Wife (theparkwife.blogspot.com/).
''I don't do giant watermelons,'' she said.
In her view, Mr. Bright and the civic boosters who ceaselessly promote the giant watermelons are not very concerned with quality and taste. The whole idea of growing for nothing but size, a chemical-heavy practice that involves culling plenty of healthy, unripe fruit to let the vine turn its attention to the most promising watermelon, is not what the growers at her market are about, she said.
''It's two different worlds,'' she said.
The market, which runs twice a week, features only Arkansas-grown produce sold by the farmers. The three sellers of watermelon offer the real Jubilees along with a limited collection that includes icebox-size Desert Kings with their yellow flesh and even the Carolina Cross, albeit small ones.
Dr. Kirkpatrick, who sells his own blackberries and vegetables at Ms. Buckley's market, is always on the lookout for a Jubilee. They taste good, and they have lots of seeds.
''I grew up in the country, and the ability to spit seeds is something that is an art,'' he said. ''You just have to spit seeds once in a while.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO SEEDS, PLEASE: Clay Wingfield, left, and Dr. Terry Kirkpatrick of the University of Arkansas examining watermelon hybrids in an Arkansas field. Below, slices at a tasting in nearby Washington. (D1)
BIG BROTHER: Hays Buckley, 4, with a 100-pounder on Lloyd Bright's farm in Hope, Ark. Mr. Bright prefers giant watermelons, some of which grow to more than 200 pounds.
A WORKOUT: To choose a good watermelon, check its shape, color and weight and, perhaps, try a thump or a slap. Selecting a diamond might be easier. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACOB SLATON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANDREW SCRIVANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); MELON FARMING (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (74%); BOTANY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (83%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



436 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TRANSCRIPT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: Interview With Sharron Angle

 BODY:
Following are excerpts of a New York Times interview with Sharron Angle, the Republican candidate challenging Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, conducted at her campaign office in North Las Vegas last Thursday:
Q. How is the race going? You sort of get the perception here, at one point it looked like you were very strong, but now maybe not so much after the past couple of months.
A. You know, when we won the primary, we knew there was going to be a honeymoon. We knew there would be a honeymoon. ... And we always have known that this was going to be a close race.
Senator Reid has never just given up the fight, you know? He's always been a tough opponent. So we knew this would be a very close race from the beginning. And that's truly what the polls have shown. That it's a close race. 
Also, we spent everything that we had in the primary, so it took about 40 days to get the money in to compete. So that's what we are doing now. Once we started to compete, we saw the polls really kind of -- they are very tight now.
Q. Did you or your campaign do anything wrong in those first couple of months?
A. I don't think so.
Q. Any lessons or things that you are trying to do differently going forward?
A. No, I can't think of anything like that.
Q. Do you think that politically you are too conservative for this state? Obviously not for the Republican primary, but for this state?
A. People have always said -- those words, 'too conservative,' is fairly relative. I'm sure that they probably said that about Thomas Jefferson and George Washington and Benjamin Franklin. And truly, when you look at the Constitution and our founding fathers and their writings, the things that made this country great, you might draw those conclusions: That they were conservative. They were fiscally conservative and socially conservative.
Q. Do you think you are more conservative than independent voters in this state?
A. I think the issue really is the economy, and when we start talking about 14.2 percent unemployment and the highest foreclosure rate in the nation, the highest rate of bankruptcy. You know, I am mainstream America, and it really doesn't matter what party you're in. When you call your children and you say ''How are you?'' -- and what you are really asking is ''Do you still have your job? And are you able to make the mortgage payment?'' That resonates across the state, not across party lines.
Mainstream Nevadans are very, very concerned about the economy, our homes, our jobs. And we lay all that at Harry Reid's doorstep.
And certainly, it's his policies, of his -- you know, I'm trying to think of a good word to describe it -- all of I can think of this Keynesian economics that didn't work in the 1930s. It didn't work for President Carter, and it's not working now. And yet they seem to just keep spending more. That seems to be their answer to everything, is spend more.
Q. Did Keynesian economics, the stimulus spending, work in the Depression of the '30s?
A. No. And I think history has really proven that to be true. Most economists agree that the thing that really worked, which is a sad commentary, is the war.
Q. In Washington, you hear various Republican committees talk about trying to remake you or change you. How do you react to that?
A. (Laughs.) Well, we're pretty independent here in Nevada. We're Westerners, and we understand who we are as people. I don't think there's any such thing as remaking any Nevadan.
Q. Do you want help from those guys?
A. Certainly. That's why I went to Washington, D.C. I think it was four days after we won the primary, we were in Washington, D.C., asking them to help us.
Q. Not just money?
A. Certainly. We went in and asked for their advice. We went in and met with the Senate caucus, the Republican Senate caucus, and asked them for their help as well. We asked for money, as you know. And we also asked for their advice as far as staffing. We wanted to have the very best, and we certainly have the very best.
Q. Did they talk to you about how to present yourself as well? How to present yourself issue-wise?
A. No. They said congratulations on winning the primary. And certainly if there had been an error, we would have seen it in a primary.
Q. I think their feeling is that Harry Reid is so vulnerable that it's relatively easy to take him out.
A. I think that Harry Reid feels that he must be vulnerable because he will not talk about the issue, which is the economy -- our homes and our jobs. He'd rather talk about me. And issues that nobody really is that keyed into, or very keyed into.
Q. Do you think President Obama represents the values of this country, in your view?
A. President Obama and Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi represent what mainstream America is rejecting about Washington, D.C. And that is this out of touch with the people.
When Harry Reid was asked to do town halls, for instance, on Obamacare, he refused. Now people want to talk about these things. They want to talk to their representatives about it.
And certainly there was a mainstream reaction, a majority reaction, against Obamacare, and yet they passed it anyway.
Q. What about overall values? Is he a mainstream president that way, beyond his politics?
A. You know, when we start talking about values and motivation, I have never had a personal conversation with the president. I don't know what his motivation and values are. All I can really judge from is the policy that has been coming out of Washington, D.C.
Q. Do you think if he were to run here again would he win, the way he won in 2008?
A. I think people had expectations of transparency. I think they had expectations of hope, change, a bright new day. And certainly here in Nevada, what we have been seeing is not a change that we hoped for, but a change that has caused high unemployment, high foreclosures, high bankruptcies. We have seen a change that has kept our businesses -- and I speak anecdotally because I've interviewed folks who have businesses --from bringing jobs, creating jobs.
I spoke to a fellow the morning before last. He said, ''I have 500 jobs I'd like to put on line right here in Las Vegas, but I'm not going to do it because I can't see through the fog in Washington, D.C.'' And the fog in Washington, D.C., he was talking about was the Obama tax increase, which is the refusal to make those tax cuts permanent. And the looming regulation of cap and trade.
Q. How would you rate him as a president after the first two years?
A. Certainly he would try to say that he inherited the problems of the economy. But the last 18 months and his policies has shown that he is out of touch with what makes an economy thrive.
We know what creates a thriving economy. Reagan. A perfect example of thriving economies. And in 1983, coming out of that recession, we were growing at an average of 8 percent per quarter. During the last year and half, we have seen, well right now we have a 2.4 percent growth this quarter. I believe they are saying the average is someplace around 3 percent.
That's hardly growth. It doesn't meet the needs of our nation.
Q. Who do you think is responsible for the size of the national debt? Is it Obama? Is it Republicans who were in office before this administration?
A. Well, certainly there is a lot of responsibility to be spread around -- plenty. Harry Reid has been around for 27 years through several administrations. He was there for the stimulus before Obama and voted for it. He has been there for all these policies that completely destroyed our economy since Obama took office. So if we were going to lay the blame on any one person, I would say it is 27 years of Harry Reid.
Q. Does the second President Bush deserve any blame for the deficit?
A. Well, certainly I didn't agree with the stimulus. I don't agree with it, but I didn't agree with it then.
Q. Right, he did a lot of spending.
A. That's true. That's true.
Q. So in other words, you think he does deserve some?
A. The solution to our problems is pay back on the debt, cut back on the spending and take back our economy by reducing marginal tax rates and also regulation. And I don't think any of that policy was really being put in place when it came to spending. We saw that throughout our government.
But I think it's even more rampant during the Obama administration, because I think the national debt has increased by $3 trillion just in the last 18 months.
So I would say that Harry Reid has been around for all that spending. So if there's one constant in all of this, through all administrations, it's Harry Reid.
Q. How do you feel about gambling, because Senator Reid doesn't gamble?
A. I used to gamble when I was young. I'm wiser now. It's not that it's wrong. Certainly tourism runs our state, and it is a form of leisure entertainment. However, when you have lived in this state as long as I have, over 55 years, my father taught us at a very young age that it is the house that is the winner. And that's why I said I'm much wiser.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); FORECLOSURE (64%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%) NEVADA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



437 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Obama Rolls Out Midterm Metaphor

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- In road-testing his stump speech for the midterm elections, President Obama would like American voters to think of a car that has been driven into a ditch. (Take a wild guess who was at the wheel.)
''You had a group of folks who drove the economy, drove the country, drove our car into the ditch,'' Mr. Obama told some 200 party faithful sipping sauvignon blanc by the pool Monday night at a Los Angeles fund-raiser. 
The president may change a word here or refer to a different member of Congress there, but the basic arc of the anecdote has been the same at his stops so far this week on a three-day, five-state swing.
The White House wants to frame the November elections as a clear choice between the Democrats who have put the country on the road to recovery, anemic though it may be, and the Republicans who, in the White House view, got the country into the economic mess to begin with.
''We put on our boots and walked into the ditch -- it's muddy and hot and dusty and bugs everywhere -- and we're pushing,'' Mr. Obama said of the efforts of the White House and its Democratic partners in Congress.
''And we're slipping and sliding and sweating, and the other side, the Republicans, they're standing there with their Slurpees watching us,'' Mr. Obama said, building up to the punch line, which he has been refining (minus the Slurpees) for several months. ''Finally we get this car to level ground. Finally we're ready to move forward, go down that road once again to American prosperity, and what happens? They want the keys back.''
''Well, you can't have the keys back,'' he said to cheers in Milwaukee on Monday. ''You don't know how to drive. You got us into the ditch.''
It is not an easy sales pitch, in no small part because Republicans have countered that Mr. Obama's stimulus spending and health care and financial overhauls are slowing the recovery and keeping the unemployment rate high.
Indeed, far from running from it, Republicans are embracing the obstructionist label that Mr. Obama has been using liberally.
When White House officials started pointing out to reporters recent remarks by the Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, that he wished Republicans had been able to obstruct more, Mr. McConnell's office fired off e-mails standing behind the remarks.
''Like most Americans, Senate Republicans opposed a government takeover of health care, a bill that nearly every week we learn won't reduce health care costs for families, but will take a half-trillion dollars out of Medicare while kicking seniors off the plans they like and raising taxes on small business,'' Don Stewart, Mr. McConnell's spokesman, wrote in an e-mail.
The president and the minority leader have also tangled over legislation to give small businesses a variety of tax breaks and incentives, including easier access to loans. ''They won't even let it go to a vote,'' Mr. Obama said in Seattle.
Republicans counter that the bill is misguided and costly, and that it will not help small businesses. And they blame the Democrats for delaying a vote on it.
''From the beginning,'' an e-mail from Mr. Stewart said, ''this bill clearly wasn't a priority to them until they realized that they didn't have anything to talk about when they go home in August.''
White House officials nonetheless expressed optimism Tuesday that the effort to frame the midterm elections as a battle between hope and obstructionism would be successful.
Mr. Obama's speechwriter, Jon Favreau, was traveling with him on the three-day swing as the president worked on his message, and the two men have tossed ideas back and forth over what works and what does not. The ''you can't drive'' anecdote, which made its debut as just two lines in a speech a few months ago, has increasingly found favor with the president as audiences have responded to it, administration officials said.
Of course, on this trip, Mr. Obama has been preaching to the choir.
''You notice that when you move forward in your car, you put it in 'D'; when you want to go backwards, you put it in 'R?' '' Mr. Obama said to wild cheers in Seattle, where, for the first time, he pantomimed drinking a Slurpee as he caricatured his Republican opponents. ''Back into that ditch! Keep that in mind in November. That's not a coincidence.''
Jokes aside, the effort to position Congressional Democrats as more concerned about the economy than their Republican counterparts is crucial to Mr. Obama's hopes that his party will retain control of Congress in November. With that goal in mind, Mr. Obama is trying to harness the success of his 2008 drive toward the White House.
''You remember our slogan during the campaign -- 'Yes, we can?' '' Mr. Obama asked in Seattle. ''Their slogan is, 'No, we can't.' ''
Clearly enjoying himself, he started to grin. ''It's really inspiring, that vision they have for the future -- gives you a little pep in your step when you hear it, doesn't it?''
Crowding Air Force One
SEATTLE (AP) -- The North American Aerospace Defense Command said Tuesday that military fighter jets were scrambled to respond to an air-space violation near Air Force One here.
John Cornelio, a spokesman, said the jets were sent from Portland, Ore., as the president was visiting here after a report that an aircraft had entered the restricted airspace. Mr. Cornelio said the aircraft left the restricted area before the Air National Guard jets arrived.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A Political Memo article on Wednesday about speeches by President Obama in which he accused Republicans in Congress of obstructionism misidentified the position held by Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky. He is the minority leader, not the majority leader.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama met with business owners Tuesday at the Grand Central Bakery in Seattle. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITCH MCCONNELL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (72%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



438 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo and Lazio Shared Hostility Long Before the Race for Governor

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Long before Andrew M. Cuomo and Rick A. Lazio were running for governor, they were in each other's cross hairs. And while the stakes were never as high, the bad blood has lingered.
Their sparring began with a housing amendment, though, truth be told, it was no ordinary amendment.
It came out of Mr. Lazio's House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity in 1996, during his second term in Congress. The draft amendment called for the elimination of one specific job in the sprawling Department of Housing and Urban Development: the assistant secretary for community planning and development.
That job happened to be held by Mr. Cuomo. 
Former aides to Mr. Cuomo say he never took the threat seriously; one described his response as a ''rolling of the eyes.''
But former aides to Mr. Lazio describe a tsunami of calls, entreaties, bluster. ''He was trying to reach anyone and everyone to prevent the amendment from being offered,'' said David Horne, Mr. Lazio's former chief of staff.
''It was almost comical,'' Mr. Horne added, ''to see him go crazy.''
In the end, it fell to Joseph P. Kennedy II, who was both a congressman and Mr. Cuomo's brother-in-law, to sit down with the Lazio camp and receive assurances that the draft amendment was simply the Beltway equivalent of a towel-snapping -- an effort to tweak the combustible Mr. Cuomo.
Now, Mr. Cuomo, the presumptive Democratic nominee for governor, and Mr. Lazio, who is seeking the Republican nomination, are poised for battle on a larger stage, assuming Mr. Lazio can withstand a vigorous primary challenge from Carl Paladino, a wealthy Buffalo developer.
The two men, both 52, bring to the campaign a record of making housing their signature issue in their formative political years and lucrative stints in the private sector. They are temperamental opposites who nonetheless have a history of getting in each other's way, and under each other's skin.
Beyond the amendment to eliminate Mr. Cuomo's job, they have confronted each other many times, including in skirmishes in Washington over tighter eligibility for public housing and control of federal housing money for New York, and in barbs traded during Hillary Rodham Clinton's first campaign for United States Senate.
Neither man would comment for this article, although former members of the state's Congressional delegation and top aides to each during their Washington years agreed to be interviewed.
Their chilly relationship was cemented when Mr. Cuomo became secretary of HUD in 1997 and Mr. Lazio was chairman of the House subcommittee that oversaw the agency.
''There was no lack of animus on Mr. Lazio's part toward Andrew Cuomo, who most certainly was going to run statewide,'' said Michael Forbes, a Republican-turned-Democratic House member from Long Island who had a ringside seat to their relationship. ''And equally so, there was no secret that Rick Lazio viewed himself as a candidate for statewide office.''
Democrats like Mr. Forbes tended to dismiss Mr. Lazio, saying nobody considered him a viable statewide candidate. Republicans had a different view.
''Rick was trying to get some things done, and I think he felt he was being frustrated in that'' by Mr. Cuomo, said a former House member, Sue W. Kelly, a Republican from upstate New York who served on Mr. Lazio's housing subcommittee.
Mr. Lazio also believed Mr. Cuomo was wasting taxpayer money to promote himself, Ms. Kelly said.
''There were big glossy brochures -- three-, four-color brochures with his pictures in them,'' she said. ''What was the need to sell HUD? It's a federal agency there to help people get affordable housing, and there was money spent like that.''
Mr. Cuomo's interest in housing began in his 20s, when he founded Help USA, a nonprofit organization that develops housing for the homeless, and culminated with his appointment as HUD secretary.
Mr. Lazio's interest began in his first term in Congress, where he persuaded Newt Gingrich to appoint him chairman of the housing subcommittee. While housing was an area that held little appeal for Republicans, Mr. Lazio saw an opportunity to define himself as a more progressive-minded Republican in keeping with New York's electorate.
The two men clashed most vigorously in the late 1990s over arguably the most important piece of housing legislation to pass in more than half a century.
Mr. Lazio originally sponsored a bill that proposed allowing working-class families into public housing under the theory that there was a dearth of role models in the projects. He also wanted tenants to do volunteer work in exchange for eligibility for public housing, under the threat of eviction in some cases -- an idea that black leaders protested.
When the House passed Mr. Lazio's original bill in 1997, Mr. Lazio called it a ''wake-up call for the people who thought they could count on a free ride.'' Mr. Cuomo called it a ''housing death sentence'' and said it would ''hurt those who need our help the most, the poorest of the poor.''
Negotiations between the men were largely nonexistent.
''There was not a working relationship between Andrew and Lazio because he wasn't effective to work with,'' said Howard B. Glaser, who served as a counselor to Mr. Cuomo when he was HUD secretary. ''He wasn't the guy you need to get something done.''
Aides to Mr. Lazio said he was turned off by Mr. Cuomo's approach.
''Andrew always had an agenda,'' Mr. Horne said. ''When he wanted to sell something to Rick, he'd visit the Congressional office, and he'd say: 'This can help both of us, Rick. This is why it's going to be great for you.' ''
Mr. Horne added: ''They interacted so little. I don't know if Rick ever once picked up the phone to request a meeting.''
In public, Mr. Cuomo and his staff have long played down Mr. Lazio's role in the legislation, saying Mr. Cuomo negotiated around Mr. Lazio, working in the House with James Leach, who led the Banking and Financial Services Committee, and in the Senate with Alfonse M. D'Amato and others.
''Rick Lazio is doing what conservative Republicans do: They define themselves by their opposition to HUD,'' Mr. Cuomo told The New York Observer a decade ago.
Mr. Lazio's camp maintained then, and now, that Mr. Lazio had no patience for what they said was Mr. Cuomo's bullying or disingenuousness.
The men clashed again in 1999 over the way federal housing funds were distributed in New York State. Mr. Cuomo, who had aspirations of running for governor against George E. Pataki, spent considerable time distributing federal aid throughout New York. He and Mr. Pataki even held dueling news conferences as they handed out aid on the same day.
What really rankled state Republicans was that HUD controlled $60 million in annual block grants distributed in New York -- grants that governors in 48 other states were allowed to dole out on their own. Mr. Cuomo, however, did not want to relinquish control over the money.
''Upstate New York was and is struggling, and Andrew was trying to inject some confidence and some hope that the federal government could actually step in and be helpful,'' Mr. Glaser said. ''At some point, Pataki woke up and said, 'I'd like that money for myself,' and put Lazio on it, and Lazio was threatening to turn up the scrutiny on all of the departments.''
Mr. Horne saw it differently. When Mr. Lazio sought to reclaim control of New York's money, ''Andrew said no,'' Mr. Horne said.
''He wanted to be the one who controlled where the money went,'' he said. ''In the end, what he did at HUD was manipulate the system horribly to the detriment of New York.''
The sparring continued into Mrs. Clinton's first Senate campaign, in 2000 against Mr. Lazio. Mr. Cuomo was an enthusiastic attack dog for Mrs. Clinton; The Wall Street Journal called him a ''third force'' in the Senate race.
Campaigning for Mrs. Clinton in Syracuse days before the election, Mr. Cuomo pounced on Mr. Lazio for what he said was a rosy view of the upstate economy. ''For Rick Lazio to come to upstate New York and say the upstate economy is fine is obnoxious,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''If you live in Long Island, the upstate economy is fine.''
Mr. Lazio, for his part, relished taking shots at Mr. Cuomo. ''Suffice it to say that I think all the leadership on housing issues has come from the Republican side,'' he said at a campaign event in 2000, adding on another occasion that HUD ''consistently fails to manage itself in a manner that taxpayers deserve.''
The war of words escalated when HUD began investigating Mr. Lazio during the campaign, after allegations surfaced that Mr. Lazio and his staff had improperly pressured the agency on behalf of a campaign donor.
Nothing came of the inquiry, and Mr. Lazio said sarcastically at the time, ''I can't imagine there is politics at HUD.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Andrew M. Cuomo, left, and Rick A. Lazio have for years rankled each other beyond differences on policy. (A18)
Rick Lazio in 1999, when he led the House subcommittee that oversaw the Department of Housing and Urban Development. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE MARQUETTE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Andrew Cuomo in 1999, when, as the HUD secretary, he clashed with Mr. Lazio over distributing funds in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON EDMONDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); CITIES (55%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010



439 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Reports Help To Nudge Shares Higher

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks ended a seesaw day with a modest gain on Wednesday after investors found some positive trends in retail earnings reports.
The Dow Jones industrial average and other major indexes fluctuated throughout the day before closing with slender gains. There was little news to motivate investors a day after a stream of improving economic numbers restored some of their enthusiasm for stocks and sent the Dow up 103 points. 
The discount retailer Targetmissed analysts' forecasts for its second quarter revenue and offered a muted outlook for sales for the rest of the year. But the company told analysts it hoped to offset weak sales with higher sales of groceries and its new discounts for credit card holders. Target initially fell sharply, then recovered to gain $1.27 and close at $51.95.
The reports came a day after Wal-Mart Stores and Home Depot issued numbers that were upbeat. Almost all the big retailers closed higher on Wednesday. An exception was BJ's Wholesale Club, which lowered its earnings outlook for the year. Its stock dropped $ 1.17 to close at $42.14.
Trading was muted, and that was to be expected after Tuesday's advance and as the outlook for the economy remained unclear. Traders were not about to commit much more money to stocks. And many traders were not at their desks.
''This is sort of a reflection of it being August, when most trading firms have a skeleton staff on hand. It's going to be quiet for the next week or two,'' said Robert Pavlik, chief market strategist at Banyan Partners in New York.
The Dow rose 9.69 points, or 0.1 percent, to close at 10,415.54. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.62 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 1,094.16. The Nasdaq composite index rose 6.26 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,215.70
Treasuries remained a destination for investors seeking a safer place than stocks for their money. The 10-year Treasury note was unchanged at 90 30/32, and the yield stayed at 2.63 percent.
John Stoltzfus, senior market strategist with Ticonderoga Securities in New York, said the market was becoming increasingly dominated by a ''what have you done for me lately?'' attitude and responding to daily reports about the economy.
''We live from economic data point to economic data point,'' he said. ''That will probably continue at least until the end of the summer as we wait for some kind of catalyst that would give the market better definition.''
BHP Billiton's $38.6 billion takeover offer for the fertilizer producer Potash of Saskatchewan turned hostile on Wednesday. Potash had called BHP's offer grossly inadequate. The announcement of the bid and Potash's rejection on Tuesday helped feed the rally in stocks.
Potash rose 3.3 percent on Wednesday to close at $147.93.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); RETAILERS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TRENDS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); TAKEOVERS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); FERTILIZER MFG (61%); FERTILIZERS (60%)

COMPANY: BHP BILLITON PLC (80%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (57%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

TICKER: BLT (LSE) (80%); BIBLT (JSE) (80%); BBL (NYSE) (80%); WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (80%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (80%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (80%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (80%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (80%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



440 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Russia Moves to Bolster Afghan Economic Ties at Meeting With Regional Leaders

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Twenty years after the last Russian soldier walked out of Afghanistan, Moscow is gingerly pushing its way back into the country with business deals and diplomacy, and promises of closer ties to come.
Russia is eager to cooperate on economic matters in part by reviving Soviet-era public works, its president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, said Wednesday during a summit meeting with the leaders of Afghanistan, Tajikistan and Pakistan, the second such four-way meeting organized by Russia in the past year.
In fact, Russia has already begun a broad push into Afghan deal-making, negotiating to refurbish more than 140 Soviet-era installations, like hydroelectric stations, bridges, wells and irrigation systems, in deals that could be worth more than $1 billion. A Russian helicopter company, Vertikal-T, has contracts with NATO and the Afghan government to fly Mi-26 heavy-lift helicopters throughout the country. 
The Kremlin is also looking to blunt Islamic extremism in Central Asia, which poses a threat to Russia's security, particularly in the Caucasus, and to exploit opportunities in the promising Afghan mining and energy industries.
The Kremlin's return to Afghanistan comes with the support of the Obama administration, which in retooling its war strategy has asked Afghanistan's neighbors -- including Russia, whose forces the United States helped oust -- to carry a greater share of the burden of stabilizing the country.
''There is every reason to note significant progress in relations between our countries,'' Mr. Medvedev said to his Afghan counterpart, Hamid Karzai, at the meeting, held at Mr. Medvedev's summer residence in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, according to Russian news agencies. ''Russia is prepared to develop ties with its Afghan partners.''
The Kremlin is proceeding cautiously, however, as the Afghan quagmire, which cost 14,000 Russian lives, resonates as painfully here as the Vietnam War does in the United States.
While Mr. Medvedev hosted the meeting, he was actually more in the salesman's role than the buyer's. The Russian economy, dragged down by low prices for oil and other commodities and savaged by the financial crisis, shrank by 8 percent last year and is expected to grow by only 4 percent this year.
Studies by American geologists have indicated that Afghanistan is ripe for a potentially profitable mining boom, and others are already piling in. The China Metallurgical Group, for example, has already agreed to invest $3 billion in a copper mine south of Kabul.
On the sidelines of the summit meeting on Wednesday, Russia's foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said Afghan officials had invited Russia to take part in a project to lay an electrical wire across Afghanistan that would distribute an abundance of hydroelectric power in Tajikistan to energy-hungry Pakistan.
In comments carried by the Interfax news agency, Mr. Lavrov conceded that the idea existed only on paper now, but said Russia would be ''keen'' to take part if it came about. Mr. Lavrov said it would be ''hard to overestimate'' the importance of such a new electrical system in helping Afghanistan recover from decades of war and troubled government.
At the meeting, the four presidents discussed possible joint projects in infrastructure, transportation and mining in Central Asia, Mr. Lavrov said. For now, dismal security would seem to rule out much work on capital-intensive enterprises like industrial scale mining. Mr. Medvedev offered the Pakistani president, Asif Ali Zardari, support in dealing with the severe floods devastating his country, but his focus was clearly on the Afghan president.
Russian officials repeated their offer to provide helicopters and small-caliber weapons to help the Afghan government defeat the Taliban insurgents and perhaps better control the opium trade. Russia has offered 20 helicopters, but is asking NATO to help finance the sale.
Recently, the Kremlin has sharply criticized the United States for tolerating poppy cultivation, because much of the Afghan opium crop is finding its way to Russia and contributing to rising rates of heroin addiction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (74%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); IRRIGATION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); EXTRACTIVE METALLURGY (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); HELICOPTERS (69%); COPPER MINING (66%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (64%); RELIGION (53%)

COMPANY: CHINA METALLURGICAL GROUP CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (51%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (51%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (51%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (51%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (51%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); PAKISTAN (93%); TAJIKISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



441 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Endorsement Of Candidate Proves Bogus

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- It would have been the gold standard in Southern political endorsements: a renowned college football coach throwing his weight behind a small-town mayoral candidate. 
If only it were true.
But on Wednesday, the campaign of Dorothy Davidson, a candidate for mayor of Bessemer, Ala., a Birmingham suburb, acknowledged that she had not in fact been endorsed by Nick Saban, the popular football coach at the University of Alabama.
Instead, her campaign manager had created campaign fliers by editing Ms. Davidson into a photograph of Mr. Saban at a golf course. Beneath the photograph, the manager typed, ''Nick Saban fully supports Dorothy 'Dot' Davidson, and thinks she would be an excellent mayor for the City of Bessemer.''
''I thought, 'Damn, if we had an endorsement from Nick Saban, I bet it'd help,''' said the campaign manager, Kevin Morris, 35, who was fired Wednesday after Alabama newspapers raised questions about the fliers. Mr. Morris said that he acted alone.
''When he said we had Coach Saban's endorsement, everybody at the campaign headquarters started jumping up and down and celebrating,'' Ms. Davidson said. ''It's been hurting my heart all day to think that someone on my campaign lied.''
Six candidates are running for mayor of the city of 28,000. Ms. Davidson, 61, said she worried that the fabricated endorsement would cost her the election on Tuesday.
At first, Mr. Morris denied to local reporters that the photograph was a fake. Then, when the original version emerged, Mr. Morris acknowledged using a computer program to create it but insisted that the endorsement itself was genuine. He later confessed that that, too, had been faked.
Mr. Morris, who is unemployed and volunteered for the campaign, apologized for any harm he had caused Ms. Davidson.
''I pulled a fast one over on her,'' he said. ''That lady's so honest, man, I'm not kidding. I guess I'm not so honest.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (72%) ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



442 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Pizza Hut Cuts Prices Again to Counteract the Slow Recovery

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
MONTHS after stirring up the pizza category with promotional price cuts, Pizza Hut is putting its products on sale.
Pizza Hut, part of Yum Brands, plans to introduce a campaign on Sunday for new everyday low prices on its mainstay menu items. Most medium pizzas will cost $8, most large pizzas will be priced at $10 and most so-called specialty pizzas -- like the new behemoth Big Italy pie, which has 18 slices -- will cost $12 each.
''Every pizza price slashed,'' signs for the menu deals promise, with the word ''slashed,'' well, slashed almost in half, as if Pizza Hut were advertising the latest installment of ''A Nightmare on Elm Street.'' 
The campaign comes after Pizza Hut introduced in early February what it called its ''$10 any'' promotion -- any pizza, any size, any crust, any toppings, for $10 each. Special deals on pasta dishes on Tuesdays, and wings on Wednesdays, will continue to be offered in addition to the new pizza prices.
The $10 promotion has stimulated business, according to Pizza Hut executives. Revenue rose 6 to 7 percent in the first quarter compared with the same period a year ago, they said, and rose about 10 percent in the second quarter compared with the second quarter of 2009.
The price changes at Pizza Hut are indicative of how marketers are scrambling to address changing consumer behavior as the economy remains sluggish. Not that long ago, it was believed that marketers would soon be able to stop running price-oriented ads, or at least fewer of them.
But the most recent economic news, suggesting that the recovery has slowed, is calling into question those assumptions. That is why, for instance, Quiznos is promoting a value menu with sandwiches priced at $3, $4 and $5, and the Campbell Soup Company is running ads in Sunday newspaper coupon inserts that proclaim Chunky soup can help make ''dinner for $4 in under 4 minutes!''
''We want to make sure we can provide people's favorite foods at accessible prices,'' Brian Niccol, chief marketing officer at Pizza Hut, said at a news conference on Tuesday afternoon at the Institute of Culinary Education in Manhattan.
(Surprised to read a sentence in which ''Pizza Hut'' and ''culinary'' appear together?)
In some cases, the sale represents ''almost a 50 percent reduction'' in menu prices, Mr. Niccol said.
Mr. Niccol's use of the phrase ''favorite foods'' was no accident. Pizza Hut also plans to introduce a brand campaign that will carry the theme, ''Your favorites. Your Pizza Hut.'' The brand campaign is likely to begin appearing in early September, Mr. Niccol said, and will be interspersed with ads for the sale and ads for the new menu items like the Big Italy.
''We want to build loyalty beyond the price,'' Mr. Niccol said in an interview, adding that the way to do that was to make sure consumers ''see the value in the brand that goes beyond the price.''
''Ten dollars for the type of pizza product we provide,'' he added, ''it's tremendous value.''
To that end, a television commercial about the sale addresses the quality of Pizza Hut menu items. ''We've changed just about everything,'' an actress playing a restaurant employee says at the end of the spot, ''except how your favorite pizza tastes.''
That Pizza Hut sells consumers' ''favorite food'' will be just as important to Pizza Hut's marketing efforts, Mr. Niccol said, as providing their ''favorite value, favorite experiences and favorite thing you didn't even know yet.''
As an example of the last favorite, he described how Pizza Hut wanted to extend its successful ordering application for the iPhone -- which has already generated more than $10 million in sales, he said -- to mobile devices like the iPad and Droid. (Pizza Hut also offers online ordering.)
All the ads are being created by the Martin Agency in Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Martin became the Pizza Hut lead creative agency in December, replacing BBDO New York -- part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group -- after more than two decades.
Martin has ''a real ability to connect with consumers in the current economic conditions,'' Mr. Niccol said, referring to work the agency creates for other clients like Geico and Wal-Mart.
Andy Azula, a creative director at Martin, was in a video clip shown at the news conference to discuss the brand campaign. The idea is to present pizza as a ''part of other favorite things,'' Mr. Azula said, adding that the commercials would feature Pizza Hut employees.
Mr. Niccol said Pizza Hut would make full use of what he described as its ''big, powerful media budget'' to run the brand ads, the sale ads and the ads for the new items like the Big Italy, which a commercial boasts is ''bigger than two medium pizzas.''
Pizza Hut spent $199.2 million to run ads in major media last year, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP. In the first quarter of this year, the company spent $60.6 million, Kantar Media reported, compared with $59 million in the same period a year ago.
And Pizza Hut will expand in the social media, Mr. Niccol said. The brand has more than a million fans on Facebook, he added, and is sponsoring a promotion on Foursquare, the social networking service for mobile devices.
''In the first couple days, we had 300 mayors check in,'' he added, using a Foursquare term for users who achieve a status level. ''I guess that's good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pizza Hut will lower prices at its restaurants in a new campaign beginning Sunday. In February, it priced all of its pizzas at $10 to stimulate sales. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE CUTTING (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); BRANDING (89%); MENU PRICES (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); RETAIL COUPONS (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%)

COMPANY: YUM! BRANDS INC (91%); PIZZA HUT INC (90%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (81%)

TICKER: YUM (NYSE) (91%); CPB (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (81%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



443 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Barclays Deal With U.S. Over Trade Sanctions Is Approved

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- A federal district judge on Wednesday allowed the British banking giant Barclays to continue with a $298 million settlement of claims that it had violated federal trade sanctions, a day after he criticized the agreement as a ''sweetheart deal.'' 
The judge, Emmet G. Sullivan, endorsed the deal, in which the bank will pay the money as part of a deferred prosecution agreement over charges that it violated United States sanctions by doing deals with Cuba, Iran, Libya, Sudan and Myanmar.
The judge approved the agreement after an hourlong hearing in which he expressed concerns that Barclays was not pleading guilty, that no individuals were being prosecuted and that the $298 million would be paid by shareholders, not corporate executives.
A lawyer for the Justice Department, Kevin Gerrity, defended the agreement as a ''fair and appropriate resolution.'' He told the judge that the bank's internal four-year investigation had cost it an additional $250 million.
Barclays was charged with violating the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the Trading With the Enemy Act in its dealings that involved $500 million from 1995 until September 2006, according to court documents.
The United States has imposed sanctions and trade embargoes against Cuba, Iran, Libya, Sudan and Myanmar. Barclays was accused of hiding transactions on behalf of banks in those countries.
At its London headquarters, Barclays announced the settlement with American authorities and said no further action would be taken against the bank if it complied with the agreement.
It said it ''is committed to the highest levels of integrity and regulatory compliance across all of its operations.'' The bank added, ''Barclays has taken significant steps to enhance further its compliance programs.''
Under the deal, Barclays will pay $149 million to the federal government and a separate $149 million in a deferred prosecution agreement with the district attorney in New York, according to the documents.
The prosecution agreement will last 24 months and if Barclays complies with the terms, the charges will be dismissed in two years.
Judge Sullivan set the next status hearing in the case for mid-November and will hold regular hearings to make sure Barclays is complying with the agreement.
He endorsed the deal despite expressing concerns during the hearing, voicing earlier criticism of the agreement as a ''sweetheart deal'' and raising questions about whether the penalties were adequate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); JUDGES (91%); APPROVALS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (57%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



444 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: A State Unconvinced That Its Culture of Corruption Will Ever Fade

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY and EMMA GRAVES FITZSIMMONS

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- This state's long, troubled, expensive episode with Rod R. Blagojevich, the former governor, appears far from over.
But as prosecutors prepare to retry Mr. Blagojevich on the most serious corruption charges against him -- charges that a federal jury found itself deadlocked over on Tuesday -- one thing does seem to have come and gone: the impetus to cleanse Illinois's political system, long derided as corrupt.
That system molded the career of Mr. Blagojevich, as well as that of his predecessor, George Ryan, currently serving a prison sentence for corruption, and, literally, hundreds of others convicted of public corruption crimes in recent decades. 
Though prosecutors are expected to retry Mr. Blagojevich -- convicted of a single count of giving false statements to the Federal Bureau of Investigation -- the jury deadlock added a puzzling ingredient to the public conversation about what amounts to corruption and what does not. Many here seemed surprised by the trial's outcome, concerned that a costly retrial might bring a similar result, and leery of the thought that politics will ever change much around here.
''What's really at the core of our problem isn't one politician, but this notion of a culture of corruption,'' said Patrick Collins, a former federal prosecutor appointed by Mr. Blagojevich's successor, Gov. Pat Quinn, to lead a commission to find ways to end the pattern of corruption. He added later, ''We've been disappointed so many times.''
After Mr. Blagojevich was arrested on charges that he had turned state business into money-making enterprises for himself and his friends, reform groups sprung up all over the state, from within the capital to citizen brigades. But two years later, the results, many here say, have been disappointing.
''We had a perfect storm of events which sort of cried out for fundamental reform,'' Mr. Collins said. In the end, Mr. Collins said the changes accepted by state lawmakers amounted not to a ''half a loaf,'' but to ''some breadcrumbs.''
With the passing months, ethics reform has largely faded from the collective mind-set in Illinois, thanks, in part, to the votes on elements of an overhaul by state lawmakers, mounting alarm about the increasingly dire economic picture in the state and, especially, a growing sense of Mr. Blagojevich as a singular, unusual character.
It was hard to imagine a situation more shocking than the one people here woke up to on Dec. 9, 2008: Mr. Blagojevich, a Democrat in his second term as governor, had been arrested and accused of, among other things, trying to sell an appointment to the United States Senate seat vacated by the newly elected president, Barack Obama.
So began the jokes on late-night television. The essential theme: What was wrong with Illinois? With Mr. Blagojevich's conviction for false statements, he becomes the fourth Illinois governor in recent memory to be convicted of a crime, and the fifth of the last eight elected governors to be charged with wrongdoing.
By some estimates a thousand public officials and business people in Illinois have been convicted of public corruption in the last 40 years alone -- a fact driven in part by decades without limits on political contributions to state candidates. The price of corruption to taxpayers in the state? More than $300 million a year, according to a 2009 study from the University of Illinois at Chicago.
The immediate reaction to the accusations against Mr. Blagojevich in Springfield, the Democratic-dominated state capital, was outrage. Mr. Blagojevich was vastly unpopular even among fellow Democrats, having clashed with leaders in Springfield about nearly everything. He was quickly impeached (the State House voted 114 to 1) and removed (the State Senate was unanimous, 59 to 0).
Changing the way politics is done was more complicated.
In 2009, lawmakers purged the state's pension boards, which had struggled with scandal, and made it easier to obtain public records and to see the results of government inspectors' investigations, and Illinois became one of the nation's last states to restrict how much an individual or corporation can give a candidate in a state race.
But other efforts failed, including an initiative to remove partisan politics from the state's decennial redistricting. (The current method still involves breaking certain tie votes by pulling a name from a stovepipe-style hat.)
The state's campaign finance restrictions do not go into effect until next year, and some of those deeply involved in reform, like Mr. Collins, said they are too lax, still allowing state party leaders to give large amounts to races.
Some politicians and analysts argue that the new laws should not be underestimated.
''For this state, it is a massive change,'' Cindi Canary, director of the Illinois Campaign for Political Reform, said of the passage of campaign finance restrictions. ''It's almost an earth-shattering change.'' Still, she said, the culture here has shifted less.
Not surprisingly, Republicans, who are in the minority in both chambers of the legislature, were particularly dismissive of the notion of any true change. ''It's kind of business as usual,'' said Representative Tom Cross, the Republican leader. And Senator Christine Radogno, who leads Republicans there, said she was still seeing ''some very Blagojevich-esque behavior going on.''
Part of the difficulty with using Mr. Blagojevich's actions to push reform was the developing portrait of Mr. Blagojevich himself.
Through his trial Mr. Blagojevich came to be viewed ever more as a lone, odd, off-the-rails politician -- isolated, it seemed, from just about everything else, including any broader, systematic problem in the state. (One state lawmaker refers to him not as a Democrat but as the sole member of the Blagojevich Party.)
In recent months, too, the dreadful economy came to eclipse the once statewide conversation about ethics reform. For many, worries about Illinois's $12 billion deficit, unpaid bills and unfunded pension obligations seemed to drown out the Blagojevich soap opera.
None of which is to say there were no lessons learned from Mr. Blagojevich's journey so far. As Jeffrey Cramer, a former federal prosecutor, said, the politics here may have changed little, but ''people may be more careful talking on the phone.''
On Wednesday, Scott Dantuma, a financial consultant who was having lunch at a McDonald's and said he did not support a retrial because the case was weak, said the practice of corruption would look slightly different now. ''It will just be more underground,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (95%); JURY TRIALS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BLAGOJEVICH CORRUPTION SCANDAL (89%); POLITICS (89%); SENTENCING (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); VERDICTS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); ETHICS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (60%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: PAT QUINN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



445 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: Alaska's Scorn Of Washington Exempts Cash

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
PALMER, Alaska -- Backed by a blue row of saw-toothed mountain peaks, the Republican state lawmaker Carl Gatto finds himself on a fine roll.
Roll it back, he says, roll back this entire socialistic experiment in federal hegemony. Give us control of our land, let us drill and mine, and please don't let a few belugas get in the way of a perfectly good bridge.
''I've introduced legislation to roll back the federal government,'' he says. ''They don't have solutions; they just have taxes.''
And what of the federal stimulus, from which Alaska receives the most money per capita in the nation? Would he reject it? 
Mr. Gatto, 72 and wiry, smiles and shakes his head: ''I'll give the federal government credit: they sure give us a ton of money. For every $1 we give them in taxes for highways, they give us back $5.76.''
He points to a new federally financed highway, stretching toward distant spruce trees. ''Man, beautiful, right?''
Alaskans tend to live with their contradictions in these recessionary times. No place benefits more from federal largess than this state, where the Republican governor decries ''intrusive'' federal policies, officials sue to overturn the health care legislation and Senator Lisa Murkowski, a Republican, voted against the stimulus bill.
Although its unemployment rate sits at just 7.9 percent, about two percentage points below the national rate, Alaska has received $3,145 per capita in federal stimulus dollars, the most in the nation, according to figures compiled by Pro Publica, an investigative Web site. Nevada, by contrast, has an unemployment rate north of 14 percent and has received $1,034 per capita in recovery aid. Florida's jobless rate is 11.4 percent, and the state has obtained $914 per capita.
Alaska has budget woes, and, more perilously, oil production is slumping. But its problems are not mortal; the ax falls on new police headquarters and replacement Zamboni blades rather than on teachers and libraries. The state avoided the unemployment devastation visited on the Lower 48 in part because federal dollars support a third of Alaskan jobs, according to a university study.
Not that this has assuaged antigovernment rancor. The Alaskan Representative Don Young, a Republican, denounced the stimulus as appalling, done under the cover of night and without full disclosure. He also promised Alaskans that ''if there are earmarks, we will have our fingerprints on them.''
(Curiously, that pattern plays out in Louisiana, Wyoming and the Dakotas, states relatively low in unemployment but high in per capita stimulus aid and growling antigovernment animus.)
Sitting in valleys rimmed by mountains, glaciers and a vast alluvial delta, Matanuska-Susitna Borough, with its 83,000 residents, is a sub-Arctic suburb of Anchorage. Its largest city, Wasilla, is home to Sarah Palin. A year ago, while still governor, she took a stab at rejecting $28.6 million in federal stimulus for weatherization. As Alaska incurs a notable winter, Republican and Democratic state legislators overruled her and accepted the money.
Matanuska-Susitna Borough officials received about $111 million in federal stimulus, according to Pro Publica. There was $28 million for schools and $900,000 for a park-and-ride lot for commuters heading to Anchorage
(Wasillans have a practiced eye for federal dollars; when Ms. Palin was mayor, she hired a lobbying firm that reeled in $25 million in federal earmarks for a city of fewer than 7,000 residents.)
Fairbanks, Alaska's second-biggest city behind Anchorage, pulled in more than $4,000 per capita in stimulus aid. But Jay Ramras, its Republican state representative, who is running for lieutenant governor, says he feels a tug of suspicion as he looks at that cash.
''If you want to feed us federal money like it's a narcotic and make the state into a junkie of the U.S. Treasury, O.K.,'' he allows. ''But we would like to be an Emersonian Alaska and just get control of our resources.''
Here is the cognitive dissonance. More and more Alaskans, particularly of the Republican stripe, identify the federal government and pork-barrel spending as the enemy, although Alaska was built by both.
Alaska's appetite for federal dollars has always been voracious and is not confined to the stimulus. A study by Prof. Scott Goldsmith of the University of Alaska, Anchorage, noted that an ''extraordinary increase'' in federal spending drove the state's pile-driver growth of the last 15 years.
In 1996, federal spending in Alaska was 38 percent above the national average. Thanks to the late Republican Senator Ted Stevens, who was Senate appropriations chief for several years, and to the military, which keeps expanding its bases here, Alaska's share now is 71 percent higher than the national average.
Some of this owes to the expense of serving Alaska's rural reaches. But much is bred in the bone. The federal government carved this young state out of the northern wilderness, and officials here learn to manipulate federal budget levers at a tender age.
Still, many see strings attached. Lynn Gattis, a Republican Party official, lives by a lake in Wasilla, surrounded by aspens. She is a sourdough Alaskan, meaning she was born here, and she is a pilot, which means she threads her way around those cloud-hugging peaks. She knows that the federal government paid for the port of Anchorage and the highway that leads to Wasilla allowed Target and Sports Authority to take root.
But she sees a government that delays oil exploration, as President Obama did recently; that regulates timber and salmon harvests and hydropower; and that, in her view, cares more about polar bears than about Alaskans. (The government lists as endangered the beluga whales of Cook Inlet, a vast gray expanse that stretches out from Anchorage. Some Alaskans argue that this could stall construction of a multimillion-dollar bridge, which as it happens would be paid for by the federal government.)
''It just feels like the federal government intrudes everywhere,'' Ms. Gattis said. ''Enough Ivy League lawyers -- let's get people who can dig a mine and run a business.''
This sentiment baffles Tony Knowles, a long drink of a man who worked on the North Slope oil rigs before becoming the governor of Alaska in 1994 as a Democrat. He understands the frustration that comes with bumping into federal officials at each turn. But the trade-off is not so terrible, he notes, such as having the feds pay to put broadband in Alaskan villages.
''Nobody likes to have all their eggs in one basket, and so you do feel vulnerable,'' he said. ''But Ted Stevens, who was a Republican and beloved, was never shy about bringing money in.''
Some Alaskans have made a founding narrative of their grievance. ''Before statehood, when a distant federal bureaucracy managed our resources, Alaskans experienced devastating economic effects,'' Gov. Sean Parnell, a Republican, says on his Web site.
The historical record is a bit more complicated. Federal dollars, fishing and timber sustained Alaska until the discovery of oil in the 1960s. Victor Fischer, who helped write the state constitution in the 1950s, shrugs.
''There's all this verbiage that says we're the frontier, rough and ready,'' says Mr. Fischer, lithe and sardonic in his mid-80s. ''The Feds paid for everything, but the conflict runs through our history.''
Unemployment rose as the great recession blew through, although state residents still pay no sales or income tax. As an editorial in The Anchorage Daily News noted, Alaskans pride themselves on a libertarian ethos but the state makes so much money from the oil companies that it sends every man, woman and child a dividend check each autumn. The check this year will be about $1,300.
Still, uneasiness is palpable here, and perhaps it accounts for the political anger in the air. Oil production, the state's lifeblood, is winding down. Nonstimulus federal dollars have slowed, too.
All of which tends to reinforce that Alaska remains much as it was 50 years ago, dependent on drilling, mining and federal aid. The sense of history repeating itself is disquieting.
When Professor Goldsmith looks out his window, he sees more buildings than in the past. But the landscape -- the snow-capped volcanoes and waters of Cook Inlet -- is overpowering.
''Californians wait for a new entrepreneurial wave to lift them,'' Mr. Goldsmith says. ''For us, the traditional extraction economy still rules.''
That is why, he adds, ''historically, we take whatever largess comes our way. A federal dollar is a good dollar.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Carl Gatto, a Republican, supports the federally financed Trunk Road Reconstruction project in Wasilla, Alaska. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BOROUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: The Biggest Boost: Alaska has received more stimulus money from the federal government, on a per capita basis, than other states. (Sources: ProPublica from data on Recovery.gov
 Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (65%); POLICE FORCES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (58%); DON YOUNG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



446 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU&#039;RE THE BOSS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Daring to Be Different In Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By ADRIANA GARDELLA

 BODY:
Burned by a previous experience running a venture-capital-backed technology start-up, Elizabeth Charnock vowed to do things differently the next time. Despite challenges, Ms. Charnock, 43, is now making good on her promise as chief executive and founder of Cataphora, a bootstrapped, 60-employee firm that makes software used to track and analyze computer users' online activity and communications.
So far, the company, founded in 2002 and based in Redwood Shores, Calif., has focused on gathering evidence for lawsuits and internal corporate investigations -- such as unearthing incriminating patterns in an employee's e-mailed communications. Now, Cataphora is entering the consumer market with Digital Mirror, software that allows its users to manage and optimize their online identities. Ms. Charnock, author of ''E-Habits: What You Must do to Optimize Your Professional Digital Presence,'' recently explained that diversifying on a shoestring is just the latest test for her company. A condensed version of the conversation follows. 
Q. Why were you determined to forego venture capital?
Ms. Charnock: I had a very bad experience as C.E.O. of Troba, a venture-backed company founded in 1999, during the tech bubble. After the bubble burst, the V.C. who sat on our board left the V.C. firm. Subsequently, the firm indicated that it would not put more money into Troba, scaring off other potential investors. We had to sell the company in a fire sale, taking it bankrupt while solvent. This time around, I wanted to gain real operating experience and be employee-owned. So I said, ''Let's see if we can bootstrap.''
Q. Can you?
Ms. Charnock: Yes, though there have been more challenges than I thought there would be. We're financed solely with revenue, which is in the low eight-figure range, and sweat equity. For the first year and a half, none of our 13 employees received a paycheck -- including my husband, who is chief technology officer. Some lived off their savings, some did other work on the side or lived with their parents. Even now, I -- and most of the employees -- continually work 80-hour weeks.
Q. What's been the hardest thing about bootstrapping?
Ms. Charnock: Here in Silicon Valley, everyone assumes that larger start-ups are venture-backed and swimming in money -- and all of their expectations are set accordingly. Many people expect inflated salaries and to get rich quick -- often without their start-up having earned any appreciable amount of revenue. Even very smart, senior people have been known to ask me, ''When do you run out of money?'' I then have to explain that real businesses don't run out of money. They go make more.
Q. What can you offer employees?
Ms. Charnock: At least two things: equity and a great learning opportunity. The employees own virtually 100 percent of the company (there are a few advisers who are also shareholders and I myself own only a fairly modest fraction of it). So, everyone is a shareholder -- or at least an option holder. And while I couldn't promise success, especially in the early days, I did promise that everyone who joined would learn far more, far faster here than they could elsewhere. Still, we do have a hard time finding experienced managers here in Silicon Valley. Most of our managers are homegrown, and we've had to teach them to be managers.
Q. How do you do that?
Ms. Charnock: Large amounts of personal mentoring. Arguably, a lot of my time that would have gone toward dealing with investors went instead toward mentoring. We also allow people to take on tasks they're not quite ready for with the knowledge that mistakes will be made and that we can live with, or correct, them.
Q. Why would you be willing to work so hard and take so much risk for only a modest fraction of ownership? Isn't preserving equity one of the main reasons people choose to bootstrap?
Ms. Charnock: I still have more equity than I'd have had I gone the venture route -- and much more satisfaction. The equity that otherwise would have gone to investors went to employees. I also believed that this route was likelier to succeed, increasing the probability that the stock has value in the end. So I think it is more medium term sacrifice but less risk. And I have learned vastly more from it. Preserving equity is important to us collectively: we want to all get rich together.
Q. Has being in control lived up to your expectations?
Ms. Charnock: The employees and I control our destiny far, far more than would have been possible under the V.C. model. We have often made choices to build longer term value that would have been much harder to rationalize within the constraints of a model that is looking for a quicker, if lesser, return. I've often noticed that when venture-backed companies flounder or fail, no one feels responsible. The C.E.O. blames the investors; the investors blame the C.E.O. In our situation, we know that we need to make it work.
Q. Why have you decided to go into the consumer market?
Ms. Charnock: If you delight consumers, you can quickly grow your business. We have great government and corporate clients. But helping companies respond to subpoenas isn't really a technology play. Our technology is broader than that. My V.C. friends ask why we're still doing the legal stuff, and I have to explain that we need to pay the bills. We have to plan for the future while dealing with the world we're in.
Q. What are your ultimate plans for Cataphora?
Ms. Charnock: Our long-term goal is to go public. So, if and when later stage capital is appropriate to the needs of the business, we would certainly take it.
Q. What do your V.C.-funded friends think of what you're doing?
Ms. Charnock: They alternate between envy, awe, disbelief, and thinking that I am totally crazy.
You can follow Adriana Gardella on Twitter.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elizabeth Charnock is chief executive and founder of Cataphora, a software company in Silicon Valley. (PHOTOGRAPH BYLAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



447 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Why Johnny's College Isn't What It Used to Be

BYLINE: By STEVEN KNAPP. 
Steven Knapp is president and professor of English at the George Washington University.

 BODY:
HIGHER EDUCATION?
How Colleges Are Wasting Our Money and Failing Our Kids -- and What We Can Do About It
By Andrew Hacker and Claudia Dreifus
271 pages. Times Books. $26.
Andrew Hacker and Claudia Dreifus have written a lucid, passionate and wide-ranging book on the state of American higher education and what they perceive as its increasing betrayal of its primary mission -- for them, the teaching of undergraduates. That both are academics -- one a well-known professor (Mr. Hacker) and the other consigned to the adjunct, or what they call ''contingent,'' faculty (Ms. Dreifus, who is also a frequent contributor to The New York Times) -- provides them with memorable, often acerbic anecdotes that neatly offset their citations of statistics and (it must be said) their sometimes rather sweeping generalizations.
These anecdotes take the edge off the polemical intensity a reader might expect from the book's title, ''Higher Education? How Colleges Are Wasting Our Money and Failing Our Kids -- and What We Can Do About It.'' That may be because these anecdotes display insiders' familiarity, and often an implied intimacy, with distinguished academics and the elite institutions in which they reside. 
This is not a book for those seeking a social-scientific explanation of how American higher education, from its simple beginnings as a training ground for gentlemen clergy, has evolved into a diverse industry that, whatever one thinks of it, is unquestionably the envy of the world and an integral, arguably indispensable part of the United States economy. But in a series of well-structured and strongly argued chapters, the book does pose searching and sometimes troubling questions about the degree to which the social utility, personal benefits and philosophical ideals promoted by admissions and publicity offices are overstated, overpriced, subordinated to extraneous purposes or distorted by self-perpetuating bureaucracies.
As with many indictments, one must distinguish the crimes the prosecutors merely mention from those they really care about. Mr. Hacker and Ms. Dreifus list a host of crimes, or at least flaws in the system, some in the control of universities and others built into the external political, cultural or economic environment, or indeed into human nature. These include the narrow self-interestedness of academic departments; the greed of faculty members and administrators alike; the near-universal hypertrophy of ''the athletics incubus''; unfunded government mandates; lifetime employment for pampered professors (thanks to the combination of tenure and Congressional abolition of mandatory retirement); and the demands of students and their parents for frivolous extras (driving what the authors call ''the amenities arms race'').
But the target to which they most often and most radically return -- radically in the sense that they regard it as the root of all the other evils and propose to root it out -- is captured in a single word: research.
There was a time, in their telling, when universities saw their mission as education; now even small colleges compel their faculties to publish (at the expense of teaching) for the sake of an institutional stature that teaching alone cannot confer. The authors' deepest scorn is reserved for the claim that good teaching depends on research, and their most extreme proposal is that universities drastically reduce the amount of research they support, by ''spinning off'' medical schools and research centers, discontinuing paid sabbaticals and abolishing the current system of promotion and tenure, a system that tends to reward research productivity more than effective teaching. (The authors raise interesting questions about tenure and its alternatives. Like many critics of tenure, though, they have a keen eye for abuses of power but are remarkably sanguine about the capacity of the First Amendment to shield scholars from pressure exerted by those with the power to fire them.)
The rest of their prescriptions are scarcely controversial. Who can quarrel with a call to reduce student debt, ''engage all students,'' ''make students use their minds,'' employ technology with care or ''end exploitation of adjuncts''? I do not mean that what the authors have to say on those subjects is bland or uninformative; on the contrary, I hope their analyses and prescriptions will be widely read and pondered. But when it comes to the role of research in universities -- and, yes, even in colleges -- their insight and imagination appear to fail them.
Consider, for instance, the proposal that universities divest themselves of medical schools: they are, the authors think, too distracting and costly, if not in dollars, then in their demands on a president's attention. A tempting suggestion, many a president will agree!
But what an odd suggestion from the pen of authors who lament the self-enclosure of traditional academic disciplines. This is an era, after all, in which some of the most searching inquiry -- and most exciting teaching, including the teaching of undergraduates -- is taking place precisely at the intersection of medicine and other fields, not just engineering and physics but also fields like anthropology and history. It is a time when some of our most engaged undergraduates are fascinated by fields like global health, which brings medicine and the social and human sciences together in ways more rich and subtle than students of my generation could have imagined. And where are the humanities more alive, right here and now, than in seminars in bioethics that expose undergraduates to searing and quite possibly unanswerable questions about the beginning and end of life?
A similar point could be made about the educational value of working at the frontier of discovery in one of the research centers that Mr. Hacker and Ms. Dreifus decry. Have they spoken with undergraduates who have enjoyed the privilege of assisting a top investigator in an active, federally financed laboratory? In my own anecdotal experience, the best of those students, far from shutting themselves away in a narrow specialization, are very likely spending their time outside the lab in life-expanding service activities that, again, were quite beyond the ken of undergraduates in earlier generations.
In short, the dichotomies on which Mr. Hacker and Ms. Dreifus rely -- between teaching and research, liberal arts and ''training,'' humanistic reflection and advanced inquiry -- do not quite match the reality they seek to describe, with the always salutary aim of reforming it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: (PHOTOGRAPH BY TEQUILA MINSKY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); WRITERS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); INDICTMENTS (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); RETIREMENT AGE (62%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (60%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Higher Education? (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



448 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Rich Man, Bad Yacht

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
MIAMI
''I started with absolutely nothing and I have lived the American dream,'' Jeff Greene, a Senate candidate and billionaire, told a small crowd in one of Miami's poorest and most crime-ridden neighborhoods this week.
It was not entirely clear how the cheering audience found this information. 
But Greene kept repeating it. Like almost all the really, really rich people running for office this year, he regards his story as the core of his campaign. His policy message (jobs, jobs, jobs) and his prescriptions for the American economy (education, infrastructure repair, home weatherization) are pretty much what the Democrats have been pushing in Washington for the last two years.
But Barack Obama doesn't have a $24 million house and a 145-foot yacht.
''I'm a regular middle-class kid who achieved the American dream,'' Greene reminded his listeners.
Greene popped up out of nowhere earlier this year, prepared to ''spend what it takes'' to grab the Democratic nomination in the U.S. Senate race in Florida to go to Washington and do for America what he has done for his bank account.
Once again, voters are being asked to decide whether the cure for their problems lies in a person who is long on money and short on listening skills. After Greene talked about jobs, jobs, jobs, an unemployed landscaper came up and asked what he would do about the horrific crime rate in the neighborhood.
''Crime is directly related to jobs,'' said Greene.
A woman with respiratory problems wanted to know about housing.
''Jobs, housing -- these are basic needs.''
Being the rich candidate is not without its burdens. For one, there's the matter of that yacht, the Summerwind. Greene might see himself as an upstanding family man, but his yacht is bad, bad, bad. It's an embarrassing, headline-making connection -- the Levi Johnston of boats.
The government of Belize says Summerwind tore up a part of a national coral reef with its anchor, but Greene denies knowing anything about it. The yacht went to Cuba, apparently breaking the American embargo. Greene says that was just for emergency repairs, and, anyway, he spent the downtime visiting Cuban synagogues.
Former employees keep telling reporters about wild parties. There are claims that one involved ''naked drunken people everywhere.'' Greene says these are fantasies cooked up by disgruntled former workers, or reporters trying to blame him for the lifestyle of some of the yacht's ''colorful guests.''
Clearly, the Summerwind has a life of its own, cruising around the globe, burning 50 gallons of fuel an hour, throwing orgies for B-list celebrities while Greene is home reading. It played host to Lindsay Lohan, who Greene claims he's barely met. It took Mike Tyson on a Black Sea cruise that culminated in a drug-and-sex romp in Amsterdam, but Greene was only around for the part where they visited an 11th-century monastery in Ukraine.
Florida's primary is Tuesday, and Greene is engaged in mortal combat with Kendrick Meek, a four-term congressman. Greene (white, wealthy) insists Meek (black, yachtless) is the insider in the race, and he does have a point. Meek's House seat was basically deeded to him by his mother, former Representative Carrie Meek. At a rally in Miami this week, Carrie reminded the audience that her son had been a highway patrolman -- ''out there on the dangerous streets'' -- without mentioning that he had spent the bulk of his time in uniform working for the governor's security detail.
Meek seems to be getting by with a lot of help from his friends. Bill Clinton was the star attraction at his rally, and the former president assured the crowd that they would never be disappointed in Kendrick ''because he'll grow every day.'' (Clinton specializes in this kind of mini-compliment. On the subject of Barack Obama, Clinton said: ''This is my professional opinion. I believe he has done a much better job than he gets credit for.'')
So Meek's candidacy is all about connections, while Greene's is all about money. Their policies are pretty similar, so the whole fight has devolved into character assassination. This week when Greene held a ''block party'' in Meek's Liberty City district, he referred to the congressman dismissively as ''a perfectly nice fellow.'' This was quite a step up from his most recent TV ads. (''Kendrick Meek: Corrupt.'')
Greene has promised that if he wins, he'll give his Senate salary to Florida charities, and many of the most ardent supporters at the event seemed to be hoping to get on that list. Others were lured in with a barbecue, a face painter for the kids and some bands. The theme was to collect canned goods for the hungry, but Greene bought all the cans.
He learns his fate on Tuesday. For Summerwind, I'm thinking the future involves a trip to rehab. Then maybe a reality show for Yachts Gone Wild.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); CRIME RATES (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); LINDSAY LOHAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); BELIZE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



449 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL TIMES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Boxed In by a Big Legislative Agenda

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
Democrats in Washington are divided and somewhat puzzled over President Obama's fading popularity. They reject, of course, the Republican view that the president is basically a closet socialist whose disdain for free enterprise has alienated voters. But that's about as far as the consensus goes.
In conversations over the past few weeks, some of the party's leading strategists told me that it all comes down to messaging, or -- here's that ubiquitous word again -- ''framing.'' The president who ran such a brilliant campaign, they argue, has utterly failed to communicate his successes. They cited factors like the president's cool demeanor and suggested that he hadn't used the right words or shown the proper empathy. 
But when I put the same question to John Podesta, the former White House chief of staff who led Mr. Obama's transition team, I heard what sounded like a deeper and more persuasive explanation. You might call it the ''legislative box'' theory.
Like other Democrats, Mr. Podesta, who now runs the liberal Center for American Progress and is arguably the most influential Washington Democrat not currently in government, assumes that many of the president's struggles were unavoidable. Stubborn joblessness and anemic growth have thus far resisted intervention and defined the administration.
But to whatever extent Mr. Obama controlled the fate of his young presidency, Mr. Podesta believes that his most consequential decisions on domestic policy stemmed from one overarching conviction -- that the president's most important job in a crisis, requiring nearly single-minded attention, was to pass huge legislation.
''By focusing on getting big legislative accomplishments, which was understandable, they necessarily gave up a larger image of him as president,'' Mr. Podesta said, referring to White House advisers. ''They cast him as the prime minister. They were kind of locked into the day-to-day workings on the Hill.''
This was not a given. All presidents have laws they want to pass, but they have broader thematic priorities, too. Ronald Reagan saw a renewal of American optimism as a vital goal. Bill Clinton publicly hammered away at his ideas about economic transformation and ''reinventing government.''
Unlike his recent predecessors, however, Mr. Obama had spent his entire political career in legislative posts, and he seemed determined, above all else, to clear the Congressional hurdles that had thwarted the others. He chose a vice president and a chief of staff who were masters of the legislative arena, and he filled his most senior posts (aside from those occupied by longtime advisers) with former Congressional aides.
Mr. Obama's central strategy was to concentrate on cajoling Democratic lawmakers into passing a series of bills -- the stimulus package, the health care overhaul, a new set of financial regulations. Rather than spend a lot of time rallying public support for the agenda, Mr. Podesta said, the administration expected to get an ''updraft'' from an improving economy; the bet was that, as unemployment came down and consumer confidence rose, public opinion would more or less take care of itself.
''That strategy was built on the no-economic-stall option,'' Mr. Podesta said. ''In other words, the idea was that you didn't have to get the unemployment rate to a certain number, but you had to get unemployment going in the right direction, and people would feel that, and it would be palpable.''
The problem, as Mr. Podesta says, is that ''we're all still waiting for that.''
And so, without the modest economic revival Mr. Obama and his aides expected, voters saw trillions of dollars being spent and wondered whether there was a coherent strategy for growth. Mr. Obama, whose skills as an explainer were so instrumental in winning the office, did little sustained explaining of the crisis outside Washington.
The strategy had other implications for Mr. Obama's image. As Mr. Podesta points out, part of the president's significant appeal to voters -- ''a big part of the secret sauce of getting him elected'' -- was his promise to transcend perennial partisanship.
A more national, outward-looking strategy for creating a ''postpartisan'' dynamic might have included White House partnerships with Republican governors or even with conservative foundations or industry groups. Because the president effectively boxed himself in to a Capitol-Hill-only strategy, though, he handed the Republican minorities in Congress the power to sabotage his goal.
''Once you became a legislative president, which is arguably what you needed to do, you couldn't deliver on the nonpartisanship promise,'' Mr. Podesta said. ''And it's something people wanted.''
It's not hard to extend Mr. Podesta's theory about the legislative box to other areas in which the administration has faltered. One of the real surprises of the Obama era, for instance, has been the president's sharp break with the business community. Perhaps it shouldn't be so surprising, though, when you consider that Mr. Obama's focus on legislation has forced him to be responsive, above all else, to the shifting tides of populist sentiment in Congress.
Think of it this way: if your singular goal is to pass bills, and Democratic lawmakers are in a frenzy this week over A.I.G.'s bonuses or Goldman Sachs's investments, then you might feel forced to castigate big business, too.
Much of Mr. Obama's anticorporate rhetoric was probably calibrated more to lawmakers than to business leaders, but what the executives heard were declarations of war against American industry.
Perhaps the most damaging consequence of the legislative box is that it left Mr. Obama, who still regards himself as an outsider and a reformer, looking like a Congressional insider -- which is about the last thing voters, and independent voters in particular, wanted him to be.
''At the end of the day, they set out to do a lot, and got a lot done,'' Mr. Podesta said. ''If the unemployment rate were at 8.5 percent and we were creating 250,000 or 300,000 jobs right now, it would feel a lot different.'' But that hasn't happened, and if Mr. Podesta is right, panicky voters wanted a president, rather than a legislator in chief, to make sure they understood why.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama, reflected in a window, discussed the economy Wednesday in Columbus, Ohio, in a family's backyard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 John Podesta has a theory on Mr. Obama's poll ratings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN PODESTA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



450 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Killings of Homeless Rise to Highest Level in a Decade

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Killings of homeless people have risen to their highest level in a decade, with 43 people killed last year and many more injured in often brutal attacks that are raising concerns among law enforcement officials, rights advocates and politicians, according to new data due to be released this week.
The rise in killings, from 27 in 2008, comes as many state and local governments are wrestling with the problem of what to do with the growing number of people forced onto the streets by economic woes. Some states and cities are moving to prosecute violence against the homeless as a hate crime, while others have taken a different tack by imposing tougher measures to prevent people from living on the streets in the first place. 
Cases compiled and analyzed by the National Coalition for the Homeless, an advocacy group based in Washington, showed homeless people doused with gasoline and set on fire, attacked with bottles, metal pipes and baseball bats, and sprayed with pepper spray, often for the sport of it. An advance copy of the report was provided to The New York Times.
Because the F.B.I. does not track crimes against the homeless as part of its routine crime reporting, the data from the coalition is considered the most definitive study of the problem. A bill pending in Congress from Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland, would require the F.B.I. to begin tracking data on crimes against the homeless, and Mr. Cardin plans to lead a hearing next month in the Senate on the country's rising homeless problem, including violence against those living on the streets.
''The homeless are among our nation's most vulnerable, but increasingly they find themselves the target of violent crime simply because they are homeless,'' Mr. Cardin said. ''This behavior should not and cannot be tolerated in our society.''
Criminologists and others who worked on the study said they believed the rise in fatal attacks has been fueled by a combination of factors. Among them are tough economic times, the popularity of amateur Web videos on ''bum fights'' and on-line games that glorify and trivialize attacks, an increase in gang initiations involving the homeless, and municipal crackdowns on homeless encampments that have bred hostility.
''It's a very troubling trend,'' said Neil Donovan, executive director of the National Coalition for the Homeless. ''We're seeing a level of hatred building to the point that it's deadly now.''
The data on deadly attacks against the homeless runs counter to national trends in other areas of crime.
The F.B.I. reported in May that violent crime nationwide declined 5.5 percent last year from the year before. The data from the homeless coalition found that fatal attacks on the homeless rose 59 percent in that same time span, to 43. The number of fatalities last year was more than three times the number documented four years earlier and the highest number seen by the homeless coalition since 2000.
Brian Levin, a criminologist who assisted in the study and runs the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino, said the number of homeless people who died last year in attacks far exceeded the total of all other traditional, protected classes of hate crime victims, based on factors like gender, race and ethnicity.
Harassment and violence toward the homeless, many of them mentally ill, have become ''pervasive and routine'' in some sub-cultures, particularly among young men and teenagers, he said.
In an April 2009 case in Redding, Calif., that is included in the report, three teenage boys were accused of beating a homeless man to death and smashing his skull with metal pipes and makeshift bats after they had discussed a plan the day before at a local fast-food restaurant to beat up a ''bum.''
Since 1999, the coalition's report documented more than 1,000 acts of violence against homeless people, including 291 deaths, although the authors caution that many crimes against the homeless go unreported because of mistrust of the police.
Concerns about the violence have spurred legislative initiatives in a number of cities and states. Since May, Florida and Rhode Island have joined Maine and Maryland in passing legislation that expands protection for the homeless as hate crime victims, and the District of Columbia and Los Angeles County have done so as well. Seven other states, including California and New York, are considering similar measures.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Haley Paisley, 10, with a photo of her uncle John McGraham, a mentally ill homeless man who was killed in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IRFAN KHAN/LOS ANGELES TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); TRENDS (89%); HATE CRIME (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%)

PERSON: BEN CARDIN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



451 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: General Motors Files for an Initial Public Offering

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY and BILL VLASIC; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
DETROIT -- General Motors filed Wednesday for a landmark public stock offering that would let the federal government begin selling off its stake in the automaker as well as raise money for G.M.'s turnaround.
G.M. said that it would offer both common stock and preferred stock in the offering, which could begin as early as October, when the Obama administration will be seeking to portray its aid to the auto industry as a success before midterm elections in November.
The common shares will be sold by G.M.'s current shareholders, the largest of which is the federal government. It exchanged about $43 billion in aid to G.M. for a 61 percent interest in the automaker. 
G.M. will also offer preferred shares, which have a fixed return similar to a dividend, to institutional investors. Proceeds from the preferred shares will be used to finance operations and improve G.M.'s balance sheet.
The automaker will not sell any common shares directly, and therefore will not generate any money from them.
G.M. did not set a price range for its shares, which will trade on the New York Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange. For the government to fully recover its investment in G.M., the Treasury Department would have to sell its 304 million shares at an average price of about $141 each.
The Treasury is expected to sell enough stock in the initial offering to bring its overall ownership position in G.M. below 50 percent -- freeing the automaker of the stigma of being called ''Government Motors,'' which executives have said is hurting its reputation in the marketplace. G.M.'s 734-page filing said taxpayers would ''continue to own a substantial interest in us following this offering.''
The Treasury, in a statement on Wednesday, said it would ''retain the right, at all times, to decide whether and at what level to participate in the offering.'' The statement said the offering would not include the government's preferred G.M. shares, worth $2.1 billion.
The stock offering has been a top priority both for G.M.'s management and the Obama administration, which orchestrated the automaker's bankruptcy last year.
''There's always a trade-off between getting out quickly and getting out at the highest possible price,'' said Steven L. Rattner, the former head of President Obama's auto task force. ''The priority for the government is getting out quickly.''
Taxpayers have poured about $50 billion into G.M. since late 2008, when the struggling automaker was careening toward insolvency. The company has already repaid about $6.7 billion in loans, but most of the rest was converted into equity and can be repaid only by selling those shares.
G.M. did not specify how many of its 500 million outstanding shares would go on the market at first, saying that would depend on market conditions and other factors.
A little more than a year since its bankruptcy, G.M. has managed to earn $2.2 billion in the first half of 2010. In the four and a half years leading up to the Chapter 11 filing, it lost a total of $88 billion.
''A successful I.P.O. will be even more evidence that the steps the government took in 2008 and 2009 were good for workers, good for Michigan and good for the nation,'' Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said in a statement. ''I'm optimistic this success story is going to keep getting better.''
The offering has the potential to be the second-largest in United States history, after that of the credit card giant Visa, which raised more than $19 billion in March 2008.
The lead underwriters are Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Citigroup. They are expected to earn a total of $120 million on the deal, about one-quarter what such an offering might normally generate, because another bank, Goldman Sachs, offered to take a cut-rate fee and the Treasury imposed those terms on the banks it selected to play top roles.
Though the starting price for G.M.'s stock is unknown, more successful introductions of new vehicles should generate continued profits and increasing share values throughout 2011, said James Bell, executive market analyst with the automotive information firm Kelley Blue Book. Mr. Bell said the government did not need to rush the sale of its full stake in the company.
''I don't think the general consumer cares how much stake the government still has in G.M., as long as consumers see positive progress in the company,'' Mr. Bell said.
Some analysts say they believe G.M. may be moving too quickly to go public amid continued economic volatility.
''I don't think the financial markets are even near the ideal set of conditions for an I.P.O. of this magnitude,'' said Jesse Toprak, vice president for industry trends at TrueCar.com, which tracks industry sales and pricing. ''By waiting for the financial markets to stabilize, they would have the potential to earn more.''
G.M.'s filing listed 31 ''risk factors'' that it faces, including economic conditions, its ability to attract consumers into its dealerships and its money-losing European operations. It also notes that several top officials, including the incoming chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, ''have no outside automotive industry experience'' and that G.M.'s performance could be affected if they ''are unable to provide effective guidance and leadership.''
Last week, Edward E. Whitacre Jr. revealed plans to step down as chief executive on Sept. 1 and as chairman by year's end. He will be succeeded in both roles by Mr. Akerson, a G.M. director appointed by the Treasury last year after the carmaker emerged from bankruptcy.
Mr. Akerson, a former telecommunications executive currently with a private equity firm, the Carlyle Group, will be G.M.'s fourth chief executive since March 2009.
Though Mr. Whitacre was not expected to stay on for much longer, his departure had not been expected until after the share sale took place. With the change in leadership, G.M. will be seeking to assure potential investors that Mr. Akerson will provide stability at the top.
''The new G.M. is on the right track,'' Mr. Whitacre said last week when he announced his plans to retire.
By eliminating most of its debt in the reorganization, G.M. has been able to generate profits even though sales remain near the lowest levels in decades. It is operating with fewer plants and workers, and its vehicles are commanding higher prices.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Cadillac dealership in Sherman Oaks, Calif. General Motors is counting on strong sales to help free the company from the government's sizable ownership. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREFERRED STOCK (91%); STOCK OFFERINGS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); COMMON STOCK (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); TMX GROUP LTD (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); X (TSX) (55%); TXQ (FRA) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); ONTARIO, CANADA (55%) UNITED STATES (72%); CANADA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



452 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Strategy In Pakistan Is Upended By Disaster

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The floods in Pakistan have upended the Obama administration's carefully honed strategy there, confronting the United States with a vast humanitarian crisis and militant groups determined to exploit the misery, in a country that was already one of its thorniest problems.
While the administration has kept its public emphasis on the relief effort, senior officials are busy assessing the longer-term strategic impact. One official said the disaster would affect virtually every aspect of the relationship between the United States and Pakistan, and could have ripple effects on the war in Afghanistan and the broader American battle against Al Qaeda. 
With Pakistan's economy suffering a grievous blow, the administration could be forced to redirect parts of its $7.5 billion economic aid package for Pakistan to urgent needs like rebuilding bridges, rather than more ambitious goals like upgrading the rickety electricity grid.
Beyond that, the United States will be dealing with a crippled Pakistani government and a military that, for now, has switched its focus from rooting out insurgents to plucking people from the floodwaters. The Pakistani authorities, a senior American official said, have been ''stretched to the breaking point'' by the crisis. Their ragged response has fueled fears that the Taliban will make gains by stepping in to provide emergency meals and shelter.
''It certainly has security implications,'' said another official who, like others interviewed for this article, spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss internal policy deliberations. ''An army that is consumed by flood relief is not conducting counterinsurgency operations.''
On Thursday, the United Nations will convene a special meeting devoted to the floods, hoping to galvanize what has been a lackluster global response. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton is expected to announce that American public aid has surpassed $100 million, an official said.
''We're obviously not oblivious to the political and strategic implications of this catastrophe, but right now, we are fully focused on the emergency relief effort and trying to get a good assessment of the needs,'' said the administration's special representative to the region, Richard C. Holbrooke.
Noting that several weeks remain in the monsoon season, Mr. Holbrooke said, ''Worse may be yet to come.''
The disaster comes after a period in which the administration seemed to have made strides in repairing the American relationship with Pakistan. Mrs. Clinton visited Islamabad in July with a long list of pledges, including the upgrading of several power plants and a plan to promote Pakistani mangoes. Now, these projects seem almost beside the point.
''Before, there were power plants in need of refurbishment,'' said Daniel S. Markey, senior fellow for India, Pakistan and South Asia at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''Now there are power plants underwater.''
In recent days, the United States has sent 15 helicopters, rescuing nearly 6,000 people. On Wednesday, military cargo planes delivered 60,000 pounds of food and other relief supplies, bringing total deliveries to 717,000 pounds. The speed and scale of the effort, officials in both countries said, have helped bolster the checkered American image in Pakistan.
In another hopeful sign, officials said Pakistan and India had been in close touch about the floodwaters, some of which are flowing into Pakistan from India. Such communication, between historic archenemies, could augur reduced tension in other areas, one of the officials said.
Against that, however, are the staggering dimensions of the disaster. A senior Pakistani official told the administration on Tuesday that the next flood surge was likely to inundate much of Punjab, the densely populated region that borders India and produces much of Pakistan's food.
So far, this official said, the greatest damage has been in regions that are also hotbeds for Islamic insurgents, which has set back the army's fight against extremist groups. Local governments in those places have largely collapsed, leaving the army as the only source of authority.
With 20 million people displaced from their homes, the Pakistani authorities are girding themselves for an immense migration to the major cities, which they fear could sow further instability.
''Americans have not yet registered the enormity of the crisis,'' Pakistan's ambassador to the United States, Husain Haqqani, said in a telephone interview from Islamabad, the capital.
Pakistani and American officials said reports of hard-line Islamic charities providing relief were exaggerated. One pointed out that the floods had hurt the insurgents as well: there was a report of small arms and ammunition belonging to a militant group floating in the water.
Still, people in both countries warned that if rebuilding and rehabilitation efforts bogged down, the Taliban and other militant groups would try to take advantage of it. ''The real test is, can their government provide the most fundamental services?'' said an administration official.
Parallels to this crisis are hard to find. One official cited the example of the Indonesian province of Aceh, which had been racked by a three-decade insurgency fought by the separatist Free Aceh Movement. After the tsunami swept through in 2004, killing 170,000 people, the separatists and the Indonesian government quickly signed a peace treaty, in August 2005.
There are, however, big differences between a localized separatist group and an international jihadist movement.
''If the flood proves to tilt the balance of power in Pakistan, it's more likely to tilt toward the militants than toward the government,'' said Bruce Riedel, a former intelligence official who helped the administration formulate its initial policy for Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Already, Pakistan's president, Asif Ali Zardari, has been exposed to withering criticism at home for going on a trip to Europe during the early days of the flood. American officials said they were determined not to get drawn into the dispute, noting that in any event, Mr. Zardari had been stripped of many of his powers in a recent constitutional change.
Decisions on how the flood will affect American economic aid may be influenced by a trip to Pakistan by Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who co-sponsored the five-year nonmilitary assistance package with Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana.
Senator Kerry, accompanied by Dan Feldman, a deputy to Mr. Holbrooke, is scheduled to tour the flooded areas on Thursday. Mr. Kerry has said he is open to redirecting aid money, though some analysts said they were skeptical that Congress would approve additional financing. Military aid may also come under scrutiny, according to administration officials.
''Every dimension of our relationship -- politics, economics, security -- is going to see major shifts as a result of this historic disaster,'' said Lt. Gen. Douglas Lute, the White House coordinator for Afghanistan and Pakistan. ''All the tools of diplomacy have to be examined in light of this new reality.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Men worked Wednesday to rebuild a bridge in Punjab Province.With much of Pakistan and its government crippled, Washington is reassessing its plans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATIULLAH ACHAKZAI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A4)
 Husain Haqqani, Pakistan's ambassador to the United States, with the envoy Richard C. Holbrooke in Islamabad in July. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BEREHULAK/GETTY IMAGES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); 2010 PAKISTAN FLOODS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (88%); TALIBAN (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ARMIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); AL-QAEDA (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (78%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



453 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Pioneers Continue To Shepherd Women's Basketball

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Today they are suits -- pro basketball executives -- but once upon a time they were kids, looking for a game.
They played their sport at the highest level of its time. Now their game keeps inching toward the rim, and they preside over it.
Donna Orender borrowed her father's car in suburban Long Island. Didn't tell him she was heading into the city for a game. Drove down a one-way street and lived to tell the tale. Now she is the president of the Women's National Basketball Association.
Carol Blazejowski took the bus from New Jersey into the city, to play at the Rucker women's tournament in Harlem. A nice man named Lamar escorted her back downtown, but as her bus headed for the tunnel, all of Manhattan went dark. It was the blackout of 1977. She thought, ''How am I going to get home?'' The immortal Blaze is president and general manager of the red-hot Liberty, which has won nine straight heading into Thursday's game at Madison Square Garden. 
Ann Meyers Drysdale was the first four-time all-American at U.C.L.A. She signed a $50,000 contract and had a tryout with the Indiana Pacers. She is general manager of the Phoenix Mercury, the W.N.B.A. champions of 2007 and 2009.
On Tuesday evening, Orender and Blazejowski sat on a sofa at the Garden and talked about the league, now in its 14th season.
Blazejowski said women are more hesitant than men to commit to buying season ticket packages. In a telephone conversation, Meyers Drysdale said women are more conservative than men about spending on sports, citing the charity golf tournaments she attends: ''You see things auctioned off -- four days of golf in Costa Rica? The men say, 'I'm going for that.'''
Orender suggested women are adapting their spending habits and said attendance and business are good, all things considered. The Liberty has a league-high average of 10,895 fans per game, up 14 percent from last year.
The neat thing about the W.N.B.A. is that some stars of the past have stayed around to take care of business, just as the N.B.A. has retained its Wests and Birds, its Dumarses and Thorns. These women are survivors, pioneers who had to seek out a game.
Blazejowski would show up in a schoolyard, wearing a baggy sweatshirt and a cap, and wait around until she finally got into a game. As the action heated up, she would discard the outer wrappings and boys would exclaim, ''Hey, you're a girl.'' But she could shoot, and she stayed on the court. Playing against boys was the best preparation, they all agreed.
In the early days of Title IX, Orender played a short girls schedule in high school, then worked out with the boys team.
''I played at the McBurney Y later,'' Orender recalled. An advertising executive started pushing her around, saying, ''There's only two places for you -- the kitchen and the bedroom, not the court.'' No coach ever gave a better motivating speech.
I asked the two old friends to talk about their classic meeting on March 6, 1977, at Madison Square Garden -- a college doubleheader that drew 12,336 fans, breaking the record for a women's event. Blaze's Montclair State and Orender's Queens College played first at 11 a.m.
With Orender guarding her, Blazejowski had only 14 points at halftime. ''But then I made a mistake and my coach took me out,'' said Orender, whose last name then was Geils. By the time Orender got back in, Blazejowski was closing in on her total of 52 -- still the Garden record for any college player, man or woman, and Montclair State won, 102-91.
''Blaze could shoot,'' Orender said, with Blaze nodding in agreement.
They all have their stories about amateur tournaments in funky gyms in small towns. One time, Blazejowski won a trophy, and the enforcer on the other team -- known as Duchess -- picked up the trophy and chased Blazejowski around the gym, until security finally stopped her.
Orender and Blazejowski were more than glad to talk about their pal Ann. Blazejowski remembered an A.A.U. final in Allentown, Pa., around 1979, when somehow Blazejowski's team led Meyers's team at halftime. Blazejowski's teammates stuck their ears against the grimy, asbestos walls of the locker room to hear Meyers's coach -- her older sister, Patty Meyers -- berating the players for losing to a bunch of no-names.
''Who won that game?'' Orender asked, not so innocently.
''Umm, I don't remember,'' Blazejowski said.
Later, on the phone, Meyers Drysdale recalled her team's comeback victory, three decades ago. After her playing career, she became a broadcaster and executive while raising her three children from her marriage to the Hall of Fame Dodger pitcher Don Drysdale, who died of a heart attack in 1993.
''Don was a pitcher who would knock down the hitters,'' Orender said fondly, recalling that Don, after a basketball game, told Ann, ''You've got to get tougher.'' Meyers Drysdale did not remember the pep talk. ''I was falling in love,'' she said.
Those were good days, early days, building days. The women had no league for a long time, but David Stern and the N.B.A. found a way to way to start a women's league with its own season, its own clientele, its own economy.
The Liberty, jelling under another lifer, Anne Donovan, stunned Lin Dunn's Indiana Fever, 75-57, on Tuesday, with shifty Leilani Mitchell scoring 19 points on soft shots near the basket. The comedian Robert Klein, observing from a front-row celebrity seat, was raving about Mitchell afterward.
Cappie Pondexter, the Liberty star, knows that the league president and the Liberty president played pro ball but has never seen clips of Blazejowski tossing the one-hander. Just like them, Pondexter proved herself against the boys in a schoolyard on the west side of Chicago. ''I'm a city girl,'' she said. ''I would hang around with the scrubs until I got into a game.''
The old hands agreed that today's players were at another level of size and agility and skill. ''It's the same with the guys,'' Meyers Drysdale said, but she insisted that Bill Russell or George Gervin would excel in today's N.B.A., and she reserved the right to think that Blazejowski and Cheryl Miller and Nancy Lieberman would all be stars today.
They were just looking for a game, back in the old days. Turns out they were building something, too.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carol Blazejowski, left, Liberty president and general manager, and Donna Orender, the W.N.B.A. president. They played against each other at the Garden in 1977. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Ann Meyers Drysdale is the general manager of the Phoenix Mercury, the defending W.N.B.A. champion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARRON CUMMINGS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); GOLF (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: PHOENIX MERCURY (92%); WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (90%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (55%); INDIANA PACERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); COSTA RICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



454 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; UP CLOSE WITH; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: A Wild Man Grows Up (Just Enough)

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
SHANE SMITH, a founder of Vice, the streetwise, testosterone-fueled culture and fashion magazine, still chugs canned American beer. He still listens to Bad Brains. And he still favors tattered Vans skateboard shoes and black T-shirts. That much is the same.
It is everything else that has changed. At 40, this former hard-core devotee from Canada now oversees, with his partner, Suroosh Alvi, a mini media empire based in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, that includes not just the magazine, but also a record label, a book imprint, an online television network and an ad agency, Virtue, with Dell and Nike among its corporate clients.
He owns a loft in TriBeCa, a pub in London, a house for his mom in Palm Springs, Calif., and a mountain (yes, a mountain) in Costa Rica. His idol? No punk rocker, but a Fortune 500 executive.
''I want to be like Tom Freston,'' Mr. Smith said, referring to the former chief executive of Viacom, who built MTV Networks for the company. ''Tom just flies around everywhere, gets to make movies, gets to start TV shows, hang out with cool people and do whatever he wants.'' 
The thing is, that's pretty much what Mr. Smith already does. He is aging gracefully in the role of Vice's resident wild man. He might present himself as a tattooed hustler -- the type of ageless slacker who fires off an e-mail to a reporter with the salutation, ''Hey, Cap'n Poopy Pants.'' But Vice has grown up, and so has Mr. Smith -- sort of.
Once known as a freebie magazine by hipsters for hipsters, handed out at Lower East Side record stores, Vice is now a global brand with a stated circulation of 1.2 million, offices in 30 countries and partnerships with CNN and Intel. Mr. Smith is the star of a new MTV news series, now being taped, to be shown in 2011; it will feature him as an on-air correspondent for Vice reporting from global trouble spots like Yemen. As such, Mr. Smith finds himself in a curious dual role. To hard-partying urban readers, he is a voice of a generation of too-cool D.J.'s and artists who wear rolled selvedge jeans and chunky glasses. But he is also a conduit for corporate America to reach that elusive audience.
It's a delicate balance for which the director Spike Jonze, a friend and Vice collaborator, thinks Mr. Smith is uniquely suited. He is the embodiment of the gritty Vice ethos, Mr. Jonze said. ''But he also happens to be, coincidentally, a really good salesperson, so he can turn around and sell it to the suits.''
Indeed, Mr. Smith is a robust storyteller, the type who wears a few extra pounds as if they're a trophy from good living. He seems to come by his Falstaffian persona naturally. He grew up in suburban Ottawa, the younger of two sons of parents from Ireland. His father, he said, was an electronics-systems analyst who could light up a room with displays of erudition, wit and, often, bluster.
As a teenager, Mr. Smith started to show his knack for balancing high achievement with high mischief. With his mohawked punk friends, he was happy to raise hell. But when he was alone, he read Solzhenitsyn and Beckett. He attended Carleton University in Ottawa, from which he graduated with honors and a degree in political economy, he said. Later, he hopped around Europe, he said, doing drugs, getting into fights, cooking up schemes -- like in the early 1990s, when he worked as an ''arbitrageur'' in Budapest, peddling currency at youth hostels. ''Doctors there were making like $200 a month, and I was making $2,000,'' he said.
Eventually, he moved to Montreal, where he and a childhood friend, Gavin McInnes, teamed with another partner, the more low-key Mr. Alvi, and took over a government-funded community magazine called Voice of Montreal -- striking the ''o'' to create a very different title. (Mr. McInnes, another Vice bad boy, left in 2008.)
At first, Vice was little more than a knock-off of Face, the influential British magazine. But it started finding its voice after 2000, when the staff moved to Williamsburg. There were breast-baring photo spreads by photographers like Richard Kern, and a Vice guide to anal sex. There were louche fashion spreads, but also ''Jackass''-style columns like Gross Jar, which chronicled a large jar filled with detritus like used tampons and dead rats.
Eventually, the magazine started to grow a social conscience. During the troop surge in Iraq in 2007, Vice published an issue written by Iraqi citizens -- including an account by a woman who had been detained in Abu Ghraib with her son.
Before long, powerful people were clamoring to join the party. Mr. Jonze approached about a collaboration and was named creative director of VBS.tv, an upstart Web division with videos on travel, politics, drugs and sex, often starring Mr. Alvi and Mr. Smith. On air, the shaggy Mr. Smith comes off more like Jack Black than Anderson Cooper, dropping in on hostile places like Darfur, Iran and North Korea, or cavorting nude with a postoperative transsexual hooker in a Bangkok brothel bathtub. It is gonzo journalism for the YouTube generation.
Through Mr. Jonze, he got to know actors like Luke Wilson and Johnny Knoxville. ''He's one of us, not one of them,'' said Mr. Knoxville, another over-35 skateboard punk who cultivates his street cred. He is ''a decent, sharply intelligent, great big charismatic grizzly bear of a man, and those are the exact qualities you want in a leader, or a drinking buddy.''
Lately, it's not just cool kids who want in on the action. Kenneth Estenson, the general manager of CNN.com, struck an agreement with Vice to produce video news segments to be streamed on CNN's site. Despite the fact that Mr. Smith mistook the fresh-faced Mr. Estenson for a junior staff member over lunch at their first meeting, became tipsy and spouted off about the mainstream media, both sides reached a deal, he said. For one much-discussed segment, Mr. Smith traveled to Liberia and profiled a warlord who called himself General Butt Naked, because he fought in the nude. It's the same approach that Mr. Smith will take with the MTV show, whose name has not been released.
Most recently, Vice partnered with Intel on a Web site called the Creators Project with daylong music and art festivals in London; Beijing; Sao Paolo, Brazil, and elsewhere. The first event, in New York in June, featured indie bands like Interpol and exhibitions by emerging artists who use high tech to push aesthetic boundaries.
''We have the biggest brands in the world lining up to do something with us,'' Mr. Smith said, sounding more executive than grown-up party boy.
Other signs of age are creeping in. In your 40s, he admits, you lose touch with the latest sneakers, especially when trekking off to the Arabian peninsula for work. His beard is streaked with gray. And in June, his wife, Tamyka, gave birth to their first child, Martina. Having a newborn, however, hasn't drained him of his appetite for fun. Earlier this month, he and Tamyka were out until 11 p.m. on a raucous party boat on the Hudson, where a band called Black Lips was grinding out a concert.
''Dude,'' the new father explained, ''you have to get a night nanny.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HANGING OUT: Shane Smith, of Vice magazine, on a party boat on the Hudson, with members of Black Lips. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); BEER & ALE (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); MUSIC STORES (70%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (70%); POP & ROCK (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%)

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (55%); MTV NETWORKS INC (55%); INTEL CORP (53%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); COSTA RICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



455 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Deere Beats Profit Expectations, but Cuts Forecast

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Deere & Company reported stronger-than-expected quarterly results, but it warned of growing weakness in Western Europe and offered a disappointing forecast that sent its shares lower. 
The company, the world's largest maker of agricultural equipment, reduced its outlook for Europe, saying an abundance of used equipment in the region and lingering concerns about its economic prospects were hurting sales.
It forecast a profit of $375 million for the current quarter. That was less than the $385 million analysts had estimated, according to Thomson Reuters, pulled down in part by what Deere said would be higher incentive compensation payments to executives and other employees as a result of rebounding profits.
''People imagined the fourth quarter would be better than the guidance,'' said Lawrence T. DeMaria, an analyst at Sterne Agee.
The company reported a profit of $617 million, or $1.44 a share, for its fiscal third quarter, which ended July 31. That was up 47 percent from $420 million, or 99 cents a share, a year earlier.
Revenue rose 16 percent to $6.84 billion, lifted by a 19 percent increase in sales to customers in the United States and Canada.
Analysts on average had expected a profit of $1.24 a share on revenue of $6.52 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
Early this month, wheat prices on the Chicago Board of Trade surged to a two-year high, pulling corn and soybeans higher too, as the drought ravaged crops across the Black Sea region and prompted Russia, a huge exporter, to ban shipments.
Deere said the jump in grain prices was supporting strong demand in the United States and Canada and helping offset conditions in Europe.
The company, which is based in Moline, Ill., and also makes construction and forestry equipment, said demand for those products from builders was rebounding from the lows hit after the worldwide property bubble burst. But Deere said those sales were still far below its expectations.
Shares of Deere were down 1.86 percent to close at $65.98.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); SALES FORCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (70%); CORN MARKETS (70%)

COMPANY: DEERE & CO (95%); CME GROUP INC (67%)

TICKER: DE (NYSE) (95%); CME (NASDAQ) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (95%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (95%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (67%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (78%) EUROPE (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



456 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Access to Healthy Foods

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Eat an Apple (Doctor's Orders)'' (Business Day, Aug. 13): 
By having doctors issue ''prescriptions'' for fresh fruits and vegetables, Massachusetts is right to highlight the importance of healthy food in battling the obesity crisis.
But for many people living in low-income neighborhoods or communities of color, eating healthy is simply not an option. More than 23 million Americans -- mostly poor people and people of color -- live in communities without a nearby full-service grocery store or farmers' market.
Right now, too many Americans are forced to get by on the high-fat, low-nutrient food available at local corner stores or fast-food restaurants. In these communities, efforts like the proposed federal Healthy Food Financing Initiative would help new grocery stores open or corner stores expand to include more healthy, affordable food options.
A prescription is useful only if you have access to a pharmacy to fill it.
Judith Bell Oakland, Calif., Aug. 13, 2010
The writer is president of PolicyLink, a national research and advocacy institute advancing economic and social equity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (91%); FOOD SECURITY (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (88%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); FAST FOOD (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); OBESITY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: ADVOCACY INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



457 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; FRONT ROW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Braced and Eager for Impact

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
WITH the second installment of Fashion's Night Out just around the corner -- subtitled the Anna Wintour Shop-A-Thon to save retail -- readers are being reminded almost hourly by blogs, newspapers and even banners hanging from light posts that it is safe, once again, to spend.
At the same time, they may have noticed a rash of news suggesting the opposite: consumers are cutting back, paring their wardrobes, paying off their credit card debt and generally hunkering down in fear of a renewed recession. In one typical example of mixed messages, the big reveal for the Fashion's Night Out Sept. 10 party lineup (celebrities and events galore at hundreds of stores staying open until 11 p.m.) appeared in an issue of Women's Wear Daily that was otherwise dedicated to a theme of fashion frugality. ''Mindless excess is over,'' the trend forecaster Faith Popcorn said, right there on its front page. 
Shop less!
Shop more!
Shop smarter!
Oh, why did Cathy Guisewite have to pick this moment to announce she was giving up her ''Cathy'' comic strip? Who's going to make sense of these bipolar retailers now?
Twelve months ago, Ms. Wintour's call to arms, and gloves and shoes and handbags, resulted in a shopping spectacle so bonkers that a few retail executives, including the chiefs of major department stores, were caught off guard. Tens of thousands of customers swarmed aisles, clogged escalators and gawked at pop stars, and that was just at Saks Fifth Avenue. Intermix was at capacity. There was a giddy mob on the trail of Michael Kors. It looked as if a year's worth of pent-up shopping frustrations had been released on the streets of SoHo. Nobody ever got this worked up about Restaurant Week.
''All of us were amazed at the excitement and enthusiasm you saw across the city,'' said Stephen I. Sadove, chairman and chief executive of Saks Inc. ''It was energizing. People were having fun.''
But they were not necessarily buying much. Even as retailers prepare for a second Fashion's Night Out, there has been only anecdotal evidence that the original event affected sales in a meaningful way. As a result, the priority this year appears to be shifting from selling expensive merchandise to creating upbeat experiences for consumers, making them feel as if they are personally connecting with fashion designers -- and Fashion Week, which begins in New York at the same time.
''I have five pages of events printed out in front of me,'' said Anne Keating, a senior vice president at Bloomingdale's. That includes personal appearances by Mr. Kors, Lela Rose, Carmen Marc Valvo, John Varvatos and Tadashi (who will be teaching cookie decorating); a casino night on the men's floor with actors from the HBO show ''Boardwalk Empire''; and a party with GQ to introduce a collaboration between Levi's and Billy Reid.
''Customers like the idea of the designers, who are busy doing their shows, taking time to go to department stores,'' Ms. Keating said. ''People want to have direct access to fashion, and they want it at the same time as everyone else.''
The events announced thus far would seem to have designers stretching themselves thin, at least if they haven't yet finished their collections. Elie Tahari will be giving dance lessons at Saks, while Simon Spurr and Ed Westwick play darts. Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen, with Jack McCollough and Lazaro Hernandez of Proenza Schouler, are judging karaoke at Barneys. Thakoon, Georgina Chapman and Reem Acra will model with their dogs at Bergdorf Goodman. There also appears to be an unusual convergence of designer table-tennis games, with matches planned at Barneys, Bloomingdale's and the Stuart Weitzman store on Madison Avenue.
Still, there will be products to buy. Several stores are working with designers to create exclusive, usually inexpensive, items this year. Jason Wu, for example, made a $150 doll for Bergdorf. Opening Ceremony has recruited designers to work at an indoor flea market at the Ace Hotel, selling mostly items for under $100. Rodarte will have a prom booth selling vintage gowns. Christina Tosi, the Momofuku Milk Bar, is creating a gold-dusted cookie and T-shirt combo with Band of Outsiders.
''The idea is to make this night special and make it an event,'' said Humberto Leon, an owner of Opening Ceremony, who is planning food carts on the neighboring streets so that people can still participate even if the hotel becomes too crowded, as his store on Howard Street did last year.
Many stores hope to avoid the mistakes made last year. Regardless of whether they are actually generating sales with Fashion's Night Out, none want to lose money or, worse, wind up with bad press. The scene at Bergdorf Goodman last year was such a crush that there were reports of trays of crystal glasses smashing to the floor and bruised egos when security was overwhelmed. Nevertheless, Teril Turner, a consultant for the store, was keeping details close to the vest. She refused to divulge the catering plans, but she said bite-size treats were being considered.
And for the crystal?
''We will not be using plastic cups,'' she said.
An earlier version of this story, citing information from Opening Ceremony, incorrectly stated that David Chang is creating the gold-dusted cookie and T-shirt combo. Christina Tosi, the chef for Momofuku Milk Bar, is making them with Band of Outsiders.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 26, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Front Row column last Thursday, using information from the store Opening Ceremony, misidentified the creators of a gold-dusted cookie and accompanying T-shirt. Christina Tosi, the chef for Momofuku Milk Bar, and the clothing company Band of Outsiders are making them; the chef David Chang of Momofuku is not.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MOBBED: Opening Ceremony, above, was full at Fashion's Night Out 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E1)
NOTABLE PAIR: Billy Reid's jeans ($178), made in collaboration with Levi's, will be introduced at Bloomingdale's. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID RINELLA)
AFOOT: Keds has made toile and striped sneakers ($100) for Opening Ceremony.
CHARACTERS: Savannah College of Art and Design and Debut on Mulberry Street did T-shirts featuring fashion insiders like Andre Leon Talley ($200). (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR-JOHN VILLANUEVA)
 MINI ME: Jason Wu has a limited edition doll dressed from his resort collection ($150) for Bergdorf Goodman. (E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%)

COMPANY: SAKS INC (63%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%)

TICKER: SKS (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (63%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%)

PERSON: STEPHEN I SADOVE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2010



458 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: On a Five-State Swing, Obama Takes Aim at Republicans

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
MIAMI -- President Obama threw his weight behind Democratic governors in the battleground states of Florida and Ohio on Wednesday, while leveling blistering critiques of Republican policies that he said would put the country in further economic peril.
On a three-day, five-state campaign swing that has hit almost every corner of the country before ending Wednesday evening at the ritzy Fontainebleau Hotel in Miami Beach, Mr. Obama's message has been largely the same.
''I don't want to relive the past,'' he told a cheering crowd of around 700 at a fund-raiser in Columbus on Wednesday for Gov. Ted Strickland and other Ohio Democrats. 
''It would be one thing if Republicans had said, 'You know, our philosophy doesn't work,' '' Mr. Obama said. Or, he suggested, they could have ''gone off to the desert to meditate for a while'' before returning with new ideas to run the country. But instead, Mr. Obama said his opponents wanted to return the country to the failed policies of the past.
That theme has emerged clearly as one that the White House will be trumpeting in the fall as Mr. Obama seeks to give as much help -- and as little trouble -- as he can to Democratic candidates who are fighting to cling to their seats.
On Monday, Mr. Obama was in Wisconsin raising money for Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, who is running for governor. On Wednesday, he was doing the same thing in Columbus for Mr. Strickland, who is in a tight re-election race against former Representative John Kasich.
In Miami late Wednesday, Mr. Obama stumped for Alex Sink, Florida's chief financial officer, for whom Democrats have high hopes in the governor's race.
Mr. Obama began his day talking up Democratic economic policies in a setting as intimate as the White House could manage, showing up -- literally -- in the backyard of an Ohio family to talk with them and their neighbors. The presidential motorcade arrived at the home of Rhonda and Joe Weithman. Mr. Weithman is a co-owner of an architectural company that has benefited from federal stimulus money, while Mrs. Weithman was able to keep her health insurance even though she lost her job last year, White House officials said, thanks to aid provided through the stimulus program.
After chatting at the kitchen table with the Weithmans and their two children, Mr. Obama moved to the backyard for a town-hall style meeting with neighbors.
All 435 House seats, along with one third of the Senate and many governorships are up for grabs in November, and Mr. Obama and Democrats are fighting to avoid heavy losses that could lead to a Republican takeover of the Senate or House.
The fund-raising is also crucial to that effort. A Los Angeles fund-raiser that Mr. Obama attended on Monday raised $1 million for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, and two fund-raisers in Seattle on Tuesday raised $1.3 million for Senator Patty Murray and other Washington Democrats.
Mr. Strickland's office would not say how much money was raised at the Columbus fund-raiser. Tickets for the lunch, attended by 600, were priced at $1,000, $1,500 and $2,000, with another 100 people buying standing-room only tickets for $100.
Organizers said the Miami affair was expected to raise $700,000, with ticket costs between $250 and $10,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MAYORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN KASICH (58%); TED STRICKLAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (69%) OHIO, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



459 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
FLOOD IN PAKISTAN
Disrupts U.S. Strategy
The floods in Pakistan have upended the Obama administration's carefully honed strategy there, confronting the United States with a humanitarian crisis and militant groups determined to exploit the misery, in a country that was already one of its thorniest problems. PAGE A4
A TEST TO INDIA'S IDEALS 
Throughout its history, India has managed to accommodate an extraordinary degree of diversity, but Kashmir is an exception. India has tried brute military force, Indian-style democracy and pork-barrel spending, but nothing has worked. PAGE A10
National
KILLINGS OF HOMELESS RISE
To Highest Level in 10 Years
Killings of homeless people have risen to their highest level in a decade, with 43 people killed last year and more injured in often brutal attacks that are setting off concerns among law enforcement officials, rights advocates and politicians. PAGE A19
DOUBT AFTER DRUG'S FAILURE
The failure of a promising Alzheimer's drug in clinical trials highlights the gap between diagnosis -- where real progress has recently been made -- and treatment of the disease. News Analysis. PAGE A14
New York
AIMING FOR A BRONX VICTORY
By Courting Bangladeshis
Peter M. Rivera, a nine-term Democratic assemblyman from the Bronx, has never had to worry much about job security. But that has not dissuaded Luis Sepulveda, a long shot candidate, from making a bid to take Mr. Rivera's seat with a strategy that speaks volumes about New York's rich ethnic stew: courting the district's growing population of Bangladeshis. PAGE A22
Business
MONTENEGRO HANGS HOPES
Of E.U. Entry on Port Project
A group of businessmen hope the port of Tivat, Montenegro, now just 20 percent complete, could become a new playground for the super-rich and the centerpiece of the tiny country's audacious effort to clean up its image of corruption and gain entry to the European Union. PAGE B1
Sports
FAVRE IS BACK FOR FINAL YEAR
(Unless He Isn't)
In returning to the Minnesota Vikings, Brett Favre said that the coming season -- his 20th -- would be his last. But Favre has retired and unretired twice already, in 2008 and 2009, and appeared undecided this year until three teammates flew to Mississippi to fetch him. PAGE B11
New York
CHECKING ON CITY'S OLDEST,
And Finding Them
In a recent scandal in Japan, the authorities were unable to find scores of supposed centenarians, often discovering that their descendants had been improperly collecting benefits in their elders' names. Those revelations led to a check on a couple of New York residents who have lived well past 100. PAGE A13
Arts
DEALING WITH CANCER
By Losing Her Inhibitions
Showtime's new series, ''The Big C'' on Showtime, which begins Monday, is about a high school teacher played by Laura Linney with incurable cancer. Alessandra Stanley writes that the absence of any defusing subplot is what makes the new series one of the most outre yet for the cable network. PAGE C1
Business
A STRONG WEEKEND SHOWING
Enlivens a Takeover Battle
''The Expendables,'' an ensemble action movie from Millennium Films and Lions Gate, topped the domestic box office over the weekend with an estimated $35 million in ticket sales. A true hit, with ticket sales of $100 million or more, would bolster Lions Gate Entertainment in its attempt to ward off Carl C. Icahn, its persistent suitor. PAGE B1
HULU MULLS GOING PUBLIC
Hulu, the rapidly growing hub for online television and movies, aims to go public through an offering that could value the company at more than $2 billion, according to people briefed on the matter. PAGE B1
Satellite Web Service B1
Op-ed
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION GROWTH (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); CLINICAL TRIALS (73%); CANCER (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (67%); CORRUPTION (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); SCANDALS (62%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); KASHMIR (91%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); MONTENEGRO (92%); ASIA (91%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010



460 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2010

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Teaching 'The Grapes of Wrath' With The New York Times

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: Though "The Grapes of Wrath" has been a staple of high school English classes for years, the current "Great Recession" is making it more relevant than ever. Here are Learning Network lesson plans as well as articles and multimedia from the New York Times to help you teach it. 

 BODY:

--From "The Grapes of Wrath," Chapter 5
Though "The Grapes of Wrath" has been a staple of the high school curriculum for years, the current "Great Recession" is making it more relevant than ever - for English history classes.
Do you teach this novel? How do you approach it? Please share your ideas and experiences below.
Lesson Plans

        
Dust in the Wind
Investigating the causes and effects of droughts.
        
Waste Not, Want Not
Learning about droughts to prepare public information campaigns supporting water conservation.
        
A Disaster in the Making
Investigating the transformative effect of infamous U.S. natural disasters.

        
Onward and Upward?
Documenting Local Economic Conditions
        
An Arm and a Leg
Considering the ways the recession is affecting the U.S. economy and families.
        
The Shape of Things to Come?
Conducting interviews to discover how historical, cultural and economic events shape generations.
        
Tell Me Something Good
Investigating what draws viewers to the movie theater in difficult economic times.
        
A Tale of Two Leaders
Comparing the economic challenges that faced the United States in 1933 to those the nation is facing today.

        
All Work and No Pay Makes Workers Angry
Studying the rights of workers and employers to draft chapters of a book examining labor laws in the U.S.
        
Unionized We Stand
Researching the history, power and purpose of unions in the U.S.
        

A collaboration between LaGuardia Community College, the Wagner Archives and the New York Times, this curriculum is about how farm workers have struggled for economic freedom.

        
A New New Deal?
Exploring the history of the Works Progress Administration.
        
All Across America
Creating travel guides based that use both historical and current data.
        
A New New Deal?
Exploring the history of the Works Progress Administration.
        
Do the Write Thing
Preparing newspaper articles that honor classic authors.
        
10 Ways to Use The New York Times for Teaching Literature
Student Crossword Puzzles and Student Opinion Questions

        
Student Opinion: Will the Millennial Generation Achieve the American Dream?
        
The Great Depression
        
American Labor History
        
Disasters
        
Famous Literary Characters
        
Great Books and Authors
        
Literary Terms
Times Topics

        
John Steinbeck

        
Teaching Dickens With The New York Times
        
Teaching 'The Crucible' With The New York Times
        
Good News About the U.S. Economy?
        
'Life Beneath the Field Dust'
        
Teaching Twain and 'Huckleberry Finn' With The New York Times

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); LITERATURE (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); HISTORY (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); FILM (72%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); FARM LABOR (67%); MIGRANT WORKERS (66%) classic lit; Grapes of Wrath; Great Depression; great lit; Great Recession; John Steinbeck; Migrant and Foreign Workers (Des);; Recession and Depression (Des);; Steinbeck, John; Fiction; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Literature; Summer Special; Teaching Topics

PERSON: Steinbeck, John

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



461 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Economy In Britain Shows Signs Of Strength

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- The British economy showed signs of strengthening Thursday after reports that the country's budget deficit shrank at a faster pace than expected in July and retail sales posted the biggest gain in five months.
The government's net borrowing declined to $:3.17 billion ($5 billion) in July from $:5.52 billion a year earlier, according to the Office for National Statistics. The deficit was smaller than some economists had expected.
Retail sales, meanwhile, rose 1.1 percent in July from a month earlier, helped by sales of sporting equipment, toys and jewelry. The pound gained against the dollar and the euro. 
There was also positive news Thursday from Germany, where the central bank raised its growth forecast for the year to about 3 percent from 1.9 percent.
Germany's gross domestic product rose at the fastest pace since 1991 in the second quarter because of growing demand for its goods around the world.
The positive figures in Britain came just a week after the Bank of England cut its growth outlook and said it would consider more emergency stimulus if needed.
The central bank said the economic recovery would be ''choppy'' as banks had been slow to increase lending and the pace of a recovery in the United States and Europe remained uncertain.
Britain's economic data continued to be mixed. Consumer confidence, for example, fell to a 15-month low in July, and recent housing data indicated that prices were starting to decline.
''We've been pushed around by the data slightly,'' said Michael Taylor, a senior economist at Lombard Street Research in London. ''But looking through all the noise,'' he added, ''the data is still consistent with below-trend growth. The deficit might come in slightly lower this year, but it's still large and headwinds for consumers remain.''
Among those headwinds is a plan by the chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, to reduce the government's deficit from 11 percent of gross domestic product to 2.1 percent over the next five years.
The plan, which is to be presented in more detail in October, would also include large job cuts in the public sector.
Economists disagreed about whether the budget cuts would stifle Britain's fragile economic recovery and push the country back into recession. An increase in the sales tax next year is expected to stoke inflation, which is already above the government's target of 2 percent and higher than in euro zone countries.
Higher inflation has made it more difficult for the Bank of England to decide whether to keep its benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent, and has prompted an intense debate among policy makers.
The Bank of England governor, Mervyn A. King, has said that the central bank has been ''surprised'' by the large increases in consumer prices.
Mr. King said he continued to believe that the price increases were temporary, and caused mainly by weakness in the pound that has increased the price of imports and oil.
Some economists, including the departing chief of the Office for Budget Responsibility, who is in charge of economic forecasts for the Treasury, have said that a threat of a double-dip recession remained in Britain.
Others contend the economy has enough momentum to avoid a new downturn.
David Kern, economist for the British Chambers of Commerce, said the July figures on the budget deficit and retail sales were encouraging, but they did not alter the view that the British economy faced a difficult road ahead.
''While these figures show an improvement compared to a year ago, they also highlight the U.K.'s massive deficit and the major challenge in restoring stability to the public finances,'' Mr. Kern said, adding that there was ''no room for complacency.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Osborne 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INFLATION (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); SALES TAX (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); LAYOFFS (61%); TAX INCREASES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



462 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: At Treasury, Geithner Struggles to Escape a Past He Never Had

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Timothy F. Geithner has been misidentified as a former Wall Street insider from Goldman Sachs so many times since he became the Treasury secretary that he and his advisers had taken to joking about it. Then the joke backfired.
Earlier this month, Mr. Geithner had breakfast in Manhattan with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Robert Steel, a deputy mayor and former Treasury official in the Bush administration who had previously worked at Goldman. Facetiously, a Geithner aide said Mr. Steel and Mr. Geithner knew each other from the investment bank.
Later that day at a public event, the mayor in all seriousness referred to Mr. Steel and Mr. Geithner, and added, ''They both worked at Goldman.''
Oops. 
Just as the Geithner aide's humor fell flat, likewise newspaper corrections, Mr. Geithner's objections to TV news interviewers and his staff's work to spread the boss's resume have failed to dispel the belief that Mr. Geithner is a former Wall Street banker, or more specifically, a Goldman guy.
That perception over the last 20 months has united liberal and conservative critics but reflects a broader antagonism against the government bailouts for which Mr. Geithner has been a frontline architect.
With many Americans viewing those policies as benefiting only Wall Street, its rich chief executives and Goldman in particular, the belief that Mr. Geithner came from the firm -- as his predecessor in the Bush administration did -- has easily taken root, further undermining support for those policies.
So perhaps it is good for the Geithner image that he is President Obama's point man in opposing the extension of the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy after their Dec. 31 expiration. White House aides at times have urged Mr. Geithner to take more populist stands and he has balked -- on capping executive pay, for example. But advisers say he is comfortable opposing the tax cuts for reasons that have nothing to do with separating himself from the real Wall Street types.
In speeches and interviews, he has cited the projected $700 billion, 10-year cost of the tax cuts, and nonpartisan analyses that they do not stimulate the economy because the wealthy tend to save the additional money rather than spend it.
''I believe there is no credible argument to be made that the purpose of government is to borrow from future generations of Americans to finance an extension of tax cuts for the top 2 percent,'' Mr. Geithner said in a recent speech.
Treasury advisers say the mislabeling of Mr. Geithner began before he took office, with a column in The Washington Post before the presidential inauguration that referred to him as ''a Goldman Sachs alum.''
The columnist, Al Kamen, wrote this the next day: ''The folks at Goldman Sachs called to note an error in yesterday's column. Treasury Secretary-designate Timothy F. Geithner has not worked at the investment bank. Our apologies to Goldman Sachs -- and to Geithner.''
Except for his first three years out of graduate school, when Mr. Geithner was a researcher for the global consulting firm founded by Henry A. Kissinger, the former secretary of state, he has worked at governmental agencies and mostly at Treasury.
Mr. Geithner, who turned 49 on Wednesday, began as a lower-level civil servant late in the Reagan administration and left 12 years later as under secretary for international finance at the end of the Clinton administration.
He went to the International Monetary Fund for two years. In late 2003, he became president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, part of the Federal Reserve System -- picked by a board that includes the heads of some of the big banks that the New York Fed regulates.
Administration officials and others close to Mr. Geithner say it most likely was the Fed job that gave rise to the sense that he hails from Wall Street, along with the fact that his mentor at the Clinton Treasury, former Secretary Robert E. Rubin, previously headed Goldman Sachs.
As the New York Fed president, Mr. Geithner in 2008 became prominent as part of the triumvirate with the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. -- a former chief executive of Goldman Sachs -- that engineered the government's bailout of the financial system.
''He was always being pictured with these guys and it looked like he was part of their retinue,'' said Peter D. Hart, a Democratic pollster who monitors Americans' attitudes toward public officials.
''I think at this stage he has established his own credentials,'' Mr. Hart said, but initially ''it probably made a lot more difference'' -- and not in a good way.
After some controversies in his first months as secretary, including one over bonuses at American International Group, Mr. Geithner by the spring 2009 was hearing some critics' calls for his head. At this point, he came to epitomize an Obama economic team that many viewed as too close to Wall Street.
At a hearing in April 2009 of the panel Congress created to monitor the financial bailout program, Damon A. Silvers, a labor lawyer and panel member, remarked to Mr. Geithner, ''You have been in banking.''
Mr. Geithner interrupted: ''I have never actually been in banking. I have only been in public service.''
His questioner persisted: ''Well, a long time ago. A long time.''
''Actually, never,'' Mr. Geithner replied.
''Investment banking, I meant.''
''Never investment banking.''
''Well, all right,'' the questioner conceded. ''Very well then.''
The confusion grew so widespread that Mr. Geithner himself has privately told others of a dinner where the wife of the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, remarked that Mr. Geithner must look forward to returning to Goldman.
For an August 2009 Wall Street Journal webcast interview, Mr. Geithner took questions submitted by online readers. Since ''you were/are a part of'' Goldman, one questioner wrote, was it not ''a textbook example of political corruption'' that as Treasury secretary Mr. Geithner now funneled money to the bank to benefit himself ''and your old buddies.''
Mr. Geithner, smiling wanly, said he had never worked for Goldman nor did he own stock. As for Goldman's government money, he said the bank had repaid taxpayers with a return exceeding 20 percent.
Nine months later, it was the turn of the CBS newsman Harry Smith. ''People look at you and they say, 'There's a Goldman Sachs guy who's running the Treasury Department,' '' Mr. Smith began.
Mr. Geithner cut in, not for the first time or the last, ''Let me just stop you there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has had a hard time shaking his critics' belief that he's a Wall Street insider. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner is taking the lead on opposing tax cuts for the wealthy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BAILOUT BONUSES (78%); CONSERVATISM (72%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); WRITERS (68%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); LIBERALISM (67%); BAILOUTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (94%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



463 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Math Lessons for Locavores

BYLINE: By STEPHEN BUDIANSKY. 
Stephen Budiansky is the author of the blog liberalcurmudgeon.com.

 BODY:
Leesburg, Va.
IT'S 42 steps from my back door to the garden that keeps my family supplied nine months of the year with a modest cornucopia of lettuce, beets, spinach, beans, tomatoes, basil, corn, squash, brussels sprouts, the occasional celeriac and, once when I was feeling particularly energetic, a couple of small but undeniable artichokes. You'll get no argument from me about the pleasures and advantages to the palate and the spirit of eating what's local, fresh and in season.
But the local food movement now threatens to devolve into another one of those self-indulgent -- and self-defeating -- do-gooder dogmas. Arbitrary rules, without any real scientific basis, are repeated as gospel by ''locavores,'' celebrity chefs and mainstream environmental organizations. Words like ''sustainability'' and ''food-miles'' are thrown around without any clear understanding of the larger picture of energy and land use. 
The result has been all kinds of absurdities. For instance, it is sinful in New York City to buy a tomato grown in a California field because of the energy spent to truck it across the country; it is virtuous to buy one grown in a lavishly heated greenhouse in, say, the Hudson Valley.
The statistics brandished by local-food advocates to support such doctrinaire assertions are always selective, usually misleading and often bogus. This is particularly the case with respect to the energy costs of transporting food. One popular and oft-repeated statistic is that it takes 36 (sometimes it's 97) calories of fossil fuel energy to bring one calorie of iceberg lettuce from California to the East Coast. That's an apples and oranges (or maybe apples and rocks) comparison to begin with, because you can't eat petroleum or burn iceberg lettuce.
It is also an almost complete misrepresentation of reality, as those numbers reflect the entire energy cost of producing lettuce from seed to dinner table, not just transportation. Studies have shown that whether it's grown in California or Maine, or whether it's organic or conventional, about 5,000 calories of energy go into one pound of lettuce. Given how efficient trains and tractor-trailers are, shipping a head of lettuce across the country actually adds next to nothing to the total energy bill.
It takes about a tablespoon of diesel fuel to move one pound of freight 3,000 miles by rail; that works out to about 100 calories of energy. If it goes by truck, it's about 300 calories, still a negligible amount in the overall picture. (For those checking the calculations at home, these are ''large calories,'' or kilocalories, the units used for food value.) Overall, transportation accounts for about 14 percent of the total energy consumed by the American food system.
Other favorite targets of sustainability advocates include the fertilizers and chemicals used in modern farming. But their share of the food system's energy use is even lower, about 8 percent.
The real energy hog, it turns out, is not industrial agriculture at all, but you and me. Home preparation and storage account for 32 percent of all energy use in our food system, the largest component by far.
A single 10-mile round trip by car to the grocery store or the farmers' market will easily eat up about 14,000 calories of fossil fuel energy. Just running your refrigerator for a week consumes 9,000 calories of energy. That assumes it's one of the latest high-efficiency models; otherwise, you can double that figure. Cooking and running dishwashers, freezers and second or third refrigerators (more than 25 percent of American households have more than one) all add major hits. Indeed, households make up for 22 percent of all the energy expenditures in the United States.
Agriculture, on the other hand, accounts for just 2 percent of our nation's energy usage; that energy is mainly devoted to running farm machinery and manufacture fertilizer. In return for that quite modest energy investment, we have fed hundreds of millions of people, liberated tens of millions from backbreaking manual labor and spared hundreds of millions of acres for nature preserves, forests and parks that otherwise would have come under the plow.
Don't forget the astonishing fact that the total land area of American farms remains almost unchanged from a century ago, at a little under a billion acres, even though those farms now feed three times as many Americans and export more than 10 times as much as they did in 1910.
The best way to make the most of these truly precious resources of land, favorable climates and human labor is to grow lettuce, oranges, wheat, peppers, bananas, whatever, in the places where they grow best and with the most efficient technologies -- and then pay the relatively tiny energy cost to get them to market, as we do with every other commodity in the economy. Sometimes that means growing vegetables in your backyard. Sometimes that means buying vegetables grown in California or Costa Rica.
Eating locally grown produce is a fine thing in many ways. But it is not an end in itself, nor is it a virtue in itself. The relative pittance of our energy budget that we spend on modern farming is one of the wisest energy investments we can make, when we honestly look at what it returns to our land, our economy, our environment and our well-being.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CELEBRITIES (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (67%); DIESEL FUEL (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



464 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: The Quants Are Reeling

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
They were revered as the brightest minds in finance, the ''quants'' who could outwit Wall Street with their Ph.D.'s and superfast computers.
But after blundering through the financial panic, losing big in 2008 and lagging badly in 2009, these so-called quantitative investment managers no longer look like geniuses, and some investors have fallen out of love with them.
The combined assets of quantitative funds specializing in United States stocks have plunged to $467 billion, from $1.2 trillion in 2007, a 61 percent decline, according to eVestment Alliance, a research firm. That drop reflects both bad investments and withdrawals by clients. 
The assets of a broader universe of quant hedge funds have dwindled by about $50 billion. One in four quant hedge funds has closed since 2007, according to Lipper Tass.
''If you go back to early 2008, when Bear Stearns blew up, that's when a lot of quant managers got blown out of the water,'' said Neil Rue, a managing director with Pension Consulting Alliance in Portland, Ore. ''For many, that was the beginning of the end,'' he added. Wall Street's rocket scientists have been written off before. When the hedge fund Long Term Capital Management nearly collapsed in 1998, for instance, some predicted that quants would never regain their former glory.
But this latest setback is nonetheless a stinging comedown for the wizards of high finance. For a generation, managing a quant fund -- and making millions or even billions for yourself -- seemed to be the running dream in every math and physics department. String theory experts, computer scientists and nuclear physicists came down from their ivory towers to pursue their fortunes on Wall Street.
Along the way, they turned investment management on its head, even as their critics asserted they deepened market collapses like the panic of 2008.
Granted, Wall Street is not about to pull the plug on its computers. To the contrary. A technological arms race is under way to design financial software that can outwit and out-trade the most sophisticated computer systems on the planet.
But the decline of quant fund assets nonetheless runs against what has been a powerful trend in finance. For a change, flesh-and-blood money managers are doing better than the machines. Much of the money that is flowing out of quant funds is flowing into funds managed by human beings, rather than computers.
Terry Dennison, the United States director of investment consulting at Mercer, which advises pension funds and endowments, said the quants had disappointed many big investors. Despite their high-octane computer models -- in fact, because of them -- many quant funds failed to protect their investors from losses when the markets came unglued two years ago.
And many managers who jumped into this field during good times plugged similar investment criteria into their models. In other words, the computers were making the same bets, and all won or lost in tandem.
''They were all fishing in the same pond,'' Mr. Dennison said.
Quant funds are still struggling to explain what went wrong. Some blame personnel changes. Others complain that anxious clients withdrew so much money so quickly that the funds were forced to sell investments at a loss.
Still others say their models simply failed to predict how the markets would react to near-catastrophic, once-in-a-lifetime financial events like the credit crisis and the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
''It's funny, but when quants do well, they all call themselves brilliant, but when things don't go well, they whine and call it an anomalous market,'' said Theodore Aronson, a quant fund manager in Philadelphia whose firm's assets have dropped to $19 billion, from $31 billion in the spring of 2007.
But Mr. Aronson, who has been using quantitative theories to invest since he was at Drexel Burnham Lambert in the 1970s, said investors would eventually return.
''In the good years, the money rolled in, so I can't really complain now about the cash flow going out,'' Mr. Aronson said. ''If somebody can give me proof that this is a horrible way to invest, then I'm going to get out of it and retire.''
Still, some of the biggest names in the business are shrinking after years of breakneck growth. During the last 18 months, assets have fallen at quant funds managed by Intech Investment Management, a unit of the mutual fund company Janus; by the giant money management company Blackrock; and by Goldman Sachs Asset Management.
Even quant legends like Jim Simons, the former code cracker who founded Renaissance Technologies, have seen better days.
Mr. Simons was celebrated as the King of the Quants after his in-house fund, Medallion, posted an average return of nearly 39 percent a year, after fees, from 2000 to 2007. It was an astonishing run rivaling some of the greatest feats in investing history.
But since then, investors have pulled money out of two Renaissance funds that Mr. Simons had opened during the quant boom. After losing 16 percent in 2008 and 5 percent in 2009, assets in the larger of the two funds have dropped to about $4 billion from $26 billion in 2007. (That fund is up about 6.8 percent this year, compared with a loss of about 3 percent marketwide.)
In an effort to woo back investors, some quants are tweaking their computer models. Others are reworking them altogether.
''I think it's dangerous right now because a lot of quants are working on what I call regime-change models,'' or strategies that can shift suddenly with the underlying currents in the market, said Margaret Stumpp, the chief investment officer at Quantitative Management Associates in Newark. The firm has $66 billion in assets under management, and its oldest large-cap fund has had only two down years -- 2001 and 2009 -- since opening in 1997.
''It's tantamount to throwing out the baby with the bathwater if you engage in wholesale changes to your approach,'' Ms. Stumpp said.
But many quants, particularly late arrivals, are hunting for something, anything, that will give them a new edge. Those who fail again may not survive this shakeout.
''What we're seeing is that not all quants are created equal,'' said Maggie Ralbovsky, a managing director with Wilshire Associates, which gives investment advice to pension funds and endowments.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Theodore Aronson, a quant fund manager in Philadelphia, has seen his firm's assets fall by $12 billion since spring 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); PHYSICS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ENDOWMENTS (76%); TRENDS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (63%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



465 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Appeasing The Bond Gods

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
As I look at what passes for responsible economic policy these days, there's an analogy that keeps passing through my mind. I know it's over the top, but here it is anyway: the policy elite -- central bankers, finance ministers, politicians who pose as defenders of fiscal virtue -- are acting like the priests of some ancient cult, demanding that we engage in human sacrifices to appease the anger of invisible gods.
Hey, I told you it was over the top. But bear with me for a minute. 
Late last year the conventional wisdom on economic policy took a hard right turn. Even though the world's major economies had barely begun to recover, even though unemployment remained disastrously high across much of America and Europe, creating jobs was no longer on the agenda. Instead, we were told, governments had to turn all their attention to reducing budget deficits.
Skeptics pointed out that slashing spending in a depressed economy does little to improve long-run budget prospects, and may actually make them worse by depressing economic growth. But the apostles of austerity -- sometimes referred to as ''austerians'' -- brushed aside all attempts to do the math. Never mind the numbers, they declared: immediate spending cuts were needed to ward off the ''bond vigilantes,'' investors who would pull the plug on spendthrift governments, driving up their borrowing costs and precipitating a crisis. Look at Greece, they said.
The skeptics countered that Greece is a special case, trapped by its use of the euro, which condemns it to years of deflation and stagnation whatever it does. The interest rates paid by major nations with their own currencies -- not just the United States, but also Britain and Japan -- showed no sign that the bond vigilantes were about to attack, or even that they existed.
Just you wait, said the austerians: the bond vigilantes may be invisible, but they must be feared all the same.
This was a strange argument even a few months ago, when the U.S. government could borrow for 10 years at less than 4 percent interest. We were being told that it was necessary to give up on job creation, to inflict suffering on millions of workers, in order to satisfy demands that investors were not, in fact, actually making, but which austerians claimed they would make in the future.
But the argument has become even stranger recently, as it has become clear that investors aren't worried about deficits; they're worried about stagnation and deflation. And they've been signaling that concern by driving interest rates on the debt of major economies lower, not higher. On Thursday, the rate on 10-year U.S. bonds was only 2.58 percent.
So how do austerians deal with the reality of interest rates that are plunging, not soaring? The latest fashion is to declare that there's a bubble in the bond market: investors aren't really concerned about economic weakness; they're just getting carried away. It's hard to convey the sheer audacity of this argument: first we were told that we must ignore economic fundamentals and instead obey the dictates of financial markets; now we're being told to ignore what those markets are actually saying because they're confused.
You see, then, why I find myself thinking in terms of strange and savage cults, demanding human sacrifices to appease unseen forces.
And, yes, we are talking about sacrifices. Anyone who doubts the suffering caused by slashing spending in a weak economy should look at the catastrophic effects of austerity programs in Greece and Ireland.
Maybe those countries had no choice in the matter -- although it's worth noting that all the suffering being imposed on their populations doesn't seem to have done anything to improve investor confidence in their governments.
But, in America, we do have a choice. The markets aren't demanding that we give up on job creation. On the contrary, they seem worried about the lack of action -- about the fact that, as Bill Gross of the giant bond fund Pimco put it earlier this week, we're ''approaching a cul-de-sac of stimulus,'' which he warns ''will slow to a snail's pace, incapable of providing sufficient job growth going forward.''
It seems almost superfluous, given all that, to mention the final insult: many of the most vocal austerians are, of course, hypocrites. Notice, in particular, how suddenly Republicans lost interest in the budget deficit when they were challenged about the cost of retaining tax cuts for the wealthy. But that won't stop them from continuing to pose as deficit hawks whenever anyone proposes doing something to help the unemployed.
So here's the question I find myself asking: What will it take to break the hold of this cruel cult on the minds of the policy elite? When, if ever, will we get back to the job of rebuilding the economy?
David Brooks is off today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); RELIGION (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



466 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: BP Settlements Likely to Shield Top Defendants

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- People and businesses seeking a lump-sum settlement from BP's $20 billion oil spill compensation fund will most likely have to waive their right to sue not only BP, but also all the other major defendants involved with the spill, according to internal documents from the lawyers handling the fund.
The documents -- which include e-mails, draft and final versions of the protocols, claims forms and legal notes about the administration of the fund -- provide the first definitive picture of who will be paid by the $20 billion fund, and how and when.
They also shed new light on the components of the payment plan that are likely to stir controversy, including the fund's emphasis on geographic proximity as a determining factor for eligibility. 
The fund is being administered by a prominent Washington lawyer, Kenneth R. Feinberg, who declined to be interviewed about the documents but verified their authenticity.
The eligibility requirements for compensation from the fund are similar to those of the 9/11 victims compensation fund, which Mr. Feinberg also handled. People affected by the spill seeking final settlements face a choice similar to that faced by the 9/11 victims: If they decide to sue instead of accepting a settlement, they could face years of litigation; and if they decide to accept the settlement, it could come before the full damage from the spill is known.
A key difference between the spill fund and the Sept. 11 victim compensation fund is the matter of geographic proximity. The 9/11 fund took that issue into account, but it was less controversial because that fund focused on compensating people injured in the terrorist attacks and families of those killed rather than adversely affected businesses.
Fishermen, shrimpers and seafood processors as well as hotel and restaurant owners with beachfront property in areas where oil washed ashore will have the easiest time getting reimbursed. An ice cream parlor or a golf course miles from the affected shore but along the main highway headed to the beach will probably not be eligible, the documents indicate.
Legal experts said that the eligibility criteria in the protocol, including the emphasis on proximity, make intuitive sense, but they will cut out large sectors of businesses and people that were indirectly but nonetheless deeply affected by the spill.
Examples of the kinds of businesses that may be excluded include a bait and tackle supply store in Raleigh, N.C., that equips much of the gulf's fishermen; a gas station in Flomaton, Ala., alongside Highway 29, which heads to the Gulf Coast; and a beer distributor in Atlanta whose biggest contracts were with restaurant chains on the affected coast.
The documents say that people or businesses ''in a community or municipality adjacent to a beach shoreline, marsh, bay or tributary of the gulf where oil or oil residues came ashore or appeared in the waters'' will be given top priority.
Eligibility ''will take into account, among other things, geographic proximity, nature of industry, and dependence upon injured natural resources,'' the documents say.
The possible provision in the final oil spill settlement protocol requiring people to waive their right to sue companies other than BP that were working on the rig is also expected to face protest, legal experts said.
Those other companies related to the spill include Transocean, the operator of the Deepwater Horizon rig that exploded and sank in April; Halliburton, the company responsible for cementing the well; and Cameron International, the maker of the failed blowout preventer, a device designed to shut off a well.
Mr. Feinberg plans to publicly release the protocol for emergency payments on Friday and the protocol for the final settlement in the fall. The eligibility terms for both protocols will be nearly identical, though the burden of proof to qualify for a final settlement payment will be higher, the documents say.
Even though BP is the fund's sole contributor so far, it may still be in its interest that the other companies linked to the spill be protected from claims because they could in turn try to sue BP for payment, said Richard Nagareda, a mass torts expert and law professor at Vanderbilt University.
While the protocol says that all workers injured or killed as a result of the explosion on the Deepwater Horizon or the spill are eligible to file claims, a letter sent by BP's lawyers to Steve Gordon, a lawyer representing some of those workers, states otherwise.
The letter was handed over to the House Judiciary Committee, which is investigating liability issues and the claims process.
''To be clear, it is BP's position, consistent with this indemnification, that any settlement between Transocean and any of its injured or deceased employees must include a full release of all BP entities from any and all claims or liability in connection with the Deepwater Horizon incident,'' said the letter, from John T. Hickey, a lawyer for BP. ''This full release of all BP entities would indeed bar any subsequent claims against the fund being established by BP and the claims facility that will be administered by Mr. Feinberg.''
Other parts of the fund protocol that may upset potential claimants include a provision that property owners will not be reimbursed strictly for loss of property values. Also, there will be no reimbursements for anyone adversely affected by the Obama administration's moratorium on most deepwater drilling in the gulf, people with mental health claims or businesses that were far from spill but lost tourism revenue because of government predictions that the slick was headed their way.
''Economic losses which are more remote, or occurred at a location more distant from the spill, are less likely to be fully compensated,'' the documents say.
Mr. Feinberg will determine on a case-by-case basis what qualifies as beach-front property and how payments will be adjusted on a sliding scale based in part on geographic proximity to the spill.
In a political deal struck with the governors of Alabama and Mississippi, up to $60 million from the fund will be set aside in a special pool just for compensating negatively affected real estate brokers and agents in the gulf region who are otherwise ineligible for compensation. That money will not be distributed by Mr. Feinberg but rather by the National Association of Realtors in Washington or local chapters in Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. The national association will set eligibility requirements for this money, but Mr. Feinberg will review those terms.
The $20 billion BP fund will be administered in two stages.
People, businesses or other groups that have been adversely affected by the spill can apply to Mr. Feinberg between Aug. 23 and Nov. 23 to see if they are eligible for emergency payments. After Nov. 23, only final settlement claims will be accepted, and the cutoff date for sending those is Aug. 23, 2013, the documents say.
The right to sue is waived only if people or businesses accept Mr. Feinberg's settlement, not if they simply apply for the payment. Accepting the short-term emergency payments comes with no conditions, the documents say.
The time limit placed on applying for emergency payments has been criticized by some gulf officials, including Alabama's attorney general, Troy King. After the emergency payments run out, people still out of work may be forced to apply for a final settlement before there is enough evidence to ascertain the spill's actual long-term financial effects.
Gulf residents, their lawyers and local politicians have also harshly criticized the use of proximity in calculating eligibility.
The protocol will ''arbitrarily exclude large swaths of claimants from covertly predetermined 'zones of eligibility' based on restrictive state law concepts as opposed to following'' the federal Oil Pollution Act, a team of lawyers representing several gulf restaurants wrote in a July 20 filing in federal court in the Eastern District of Louisiana.
In a concession to trial lawyers, Mr. Feinberg removed early draft language from the emergency protocol that said affected restaurant owners were likely to be eligible while their suppliers were not. Mr. Feinberg has also removed from the current draft of the final settlement protocol language that would have granted BP the right to appeal to a pre-established three-judge panel any claim Mr. Feinberg approved for over $500,000.
In response to pressure from BP, he decided to include language in the protocols emphasizing proximity rather than language that is closer to federal law that does not geographically limit damage claims. BP also successfully lobbied to include language in the emergency protocol that says that any earnings or profits people receive from another job or other source of income during the period for which they are claiming lost earnings will be deducted from the final settlement.
Instead of the month-by-month checks that BP had been handing out, Mr. Feinberg will begin authorizing emergency payments worth up to six months of lost compensation. Any emergency payments will be deducted from the final settlement disbursed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN CHARGE: Kenneth R. Feinberg, administrator of the BP spill fund, at a public meeting in Houma, La., on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DERICK E. HINGLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 UNCERTAIN: Wade Bonvillain, who owns a seafood company, was among those with questions at the meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN McNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BP GULF SPILL CLAIMS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (86%); BEACHES (85%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LITIGATION (73%); ICE CREAM (73%); RESTAURANTS (67%); TERRORISM (67%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (66%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (51%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



467 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Paid to Defer Employment at Big Firms, Young Lawyers Turn to Public Service

BYLINE: By LISA FAYE PETAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In August 2008, Nathan Richardson committed to following in the footsteps of so many young lawyers before him: a summer position with a big law firm, followed by a job offer before he ever cracked open a third-year textbook. And then everything changed.
With offers of employment made in August 2008 and the full force of the recession hitting in October, many big law firms -- like Latham & Watkins, where Mr. Richardson was a summer associate -- had to re-evaluate the job offers made to members of the class of 2009. As a way to keep their costs down while holding on to promising associates, many offered the graduates the chance to take up to a year off before starting as associates, complete with a stipend of $60,000 to $75,000. They could travel, do research, or choose -- as many did -- to work in the public sector. 
With the deferral year ending, some of these newly minted lawyers are surprised to find themselves reconsidering their career goals and thinking about staying with public interest law. When Latham & Watkins asked Mr. Richardson to defer his start date until at least October 2010, he took his interest in environmental issues to Resources for the Future, a nonprofit policy group based in Washington, where he did legal research on the Deepwater Horizon oil spill and climate change.
Now, despite heavy student-loan debt and a family to support, he has decided to say no to Latham and stay with public interest law, even though it pays far less.
''This is an amazing work environment,'' said Mr. Richardson, who graduated from the University of Chicago Law School. ''I'm working with a lot of really smart people and getting published. I'm not sure if there's anywhere else I could do this, at least at this point in my career.''
Mr. Richardson claims that everyone he knows has at least considered staying in public interest -- and law school faculty members confirm that they are seeing a growing interest in that field.
Other deferred associates like Avi Singh see public interest law as a ''sustaining motivation'' that keeps him coming to work every day. Mr. Singh is a 2009 Harvard Law School graduate who decided to stay on with the Santa Clara County public defender's office in San Jose, Calif., instead of returning to the firm Quinn Emmanuel after a four-month deferral. ''Here, I'm helping clients on a very basic level,'' he said.
''What's interesting about the deferral process is that, even though I thought it wasn't right, it got me to pursue what I wanted to do in the first place,'' Mr. Singh said.
Educators say more students are holding on to their attraction to public interest law throughout law school.
''For the first time, there is now a public interest lawyer in the Oval Office,'' said Diane T. Chin, the director of the John and Terry Levin Center for Public Service and Public Interest Law at Stanford Law School, as one explanation for why more young lawyers are considering service careers.
In 2009, 25 students entering their third year at Stanford Law indicated a commitment to public service. In 2010, that number was 36, according to Ms. Chin. The average class size is 180.
Alexa Shabecoff, the assistant dean for public service at Harvard Law School, said: ''There is an uptick in global interest in public service that has trickled down to the high school level, and students go on to college and law school with a public service ethos.''
For some, an interest in public service is why they go to law school, but a load of debt and a traditional pipeline move them toward the private sector.
David Stern, executive director of Equal Justice Works, an organization devoted to getting new legal talent in the nonprofit and public sectors, notes that the pay gap between public interest and private firm work is steep. ''The gap is multiples of the public interest salary, with a public interest attorney starting at, on average, $35,000 to $39,000 a year,'' he said. ''In a big law firm, these attorneys are starting at $140,000 to $150,000.''
Someone who took a stipend from a law firm and then opted for public service law could also find themselves negotiating a payback plan for the stipend; policies differ from firm to firm on whether or how much of a stipend must be repaid.
Jennifer Romig, another 2009 University of Chicago graduate, decided to return to the Washington office of Ropes & Gray after her deferral year, but said her experience at Southeast Louisiana Legal Services in New Orleans would color the rest of her career.
''Like most law students, I had intentions of doing pro bono work,'' Ms. Romig said. ''Now, after having spent an entire year seeing what a difference you can make, the theoretical has become real. And I cannot imagine forgetting that.''
Some in the legal community perceive a sense of competition among recent graduates who were once on different career paths. ''I think it is hard for those wholly committed to public interest to see their deferred friends getting jobs at great public interest organizations while they struggle to land their dream jobs,'' said Ms. Shabecoff, the assistant dean at Harvard.
But it could be that nonprofits would have few, if any jobs, for entry-level lawyers because of the economic climate, and deferred associates are picking up the work for public interest groups that would otherwise be slashing services because of budget cuts.
Tiela Chalmers, the executive director of the Volunteer Legal Services Program of the San Francisco Bar Association, said the seven deferred associates who worked there for a year were invaluable in providing legal services for the indigent. After three full-time employees left in 2009, Ms. Chalmers was prepared to freeze hiring and make do with a depleted staff. Then she heard about this wave of graduates being offered stipends from law firms to work in the public interest sector, often with salaries higher than those of an entry-level legal aid attorney.
Her group, like other nonprofits, was able to offer training and substantive work without the burden of paying a salary.
''It's a win-win, even if public interest firms have to take on the training,'' Ms. Chalmers said. ''Given the realities of the economic climate, a year is a long time to have these very bright folks. We get eight or nine months of really strong work out of them'' before they return to their firms. Without the deferral program, she believes her group would have handled only half of the landlord-tenant disputes and domestic violence cases from the past year.
For Mr. Stern and Equal Justice Works, the short-term benefit is evident: ''In the relay race for justice you always need fresh legs, because it's really hard work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nathan Richardson worked at Resources for the Future, a nonprofit group, during his deferral year, and decided to stay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); SUMMER LAW ASSOCIATES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); TEXTBOOKS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); STUDENT LOANS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); OIL SPILLS (65%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (50%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (50%)

COMPANY: LATHAM & WATKINS LLP (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



468 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Fall on News of Slowing Recovery

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
A slowdown in American manufacturing and weak employment data sent stocks lower on Thursday as investors continued to absorb news of a weak economic recovery.
The separate reports from the Federal Reserve and the Labor Department were a fresh reminder of the slow pace of the recovery. Manufacturing, in particular, had shown tentative signs of a rebound in recent months.
The reports were enough to reverse the upward trend of the previous two days, when the market rose 1.1 percent. 
''You had a one-two punch in one day,'' said Doug Roberts, chief investment strategist for the Channel Capital Research Institute.
The result was a broad sell-off. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 144.33 points, or 1.39 percent, to 10,271.21. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 18.53 points, or 1.69 percent, to 1,075.63, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 36.75 points, or 1.66 percent, to 2,178.95.
Financial, materials and industrial stocks all fell more than 2 percent.
''Financials are kind of used as a bellwether,'' Mr. Roberts said. He added that weak employment and manufacturing data raised questions about the prospects for a rebound in lending. ''People are wondering what is going to be the upside if there is no recovery.''
The market tumbled in afternoon trading after the Labor Department said that initial claims for unemployment insurance rose last week to a seasonally adjusted half a million people, the first time since November that they had reached that level.
The jobless claims climbed by 12,000, to 500,000, from the previous week. Wall Street analysts had expected the seasonally adjusted claims to drop.
Earlier this month, the Labor Department said that the nation lost 131,000 jobs in July, and that June was far weaker than previously indicated. While private employers added 71,000 jobs, those additions were dwarfed by the 143,000 census workers whose temporary jobs ended.
The unemployment rate remained at 9.5 percent in July, mostly because of people giving up the search for work and no longer receiving unemployment benefits. Over all, the economy has lost more than eight million jobs during the recession.
''The whole lack of improvement and further rise in claims coincides with the concerns about production and growth in the economy,'' Steven C. Wieting, an economist for Citigroup, said.
Also on Thursday, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia's monthly index showed that manufacturing in the mid-Atlantic states shrank this month. The index fell to minus 7.7 points in August -- its lowest level since July 2009 -- from 5.1 points last month.
Manufacturing was an underlying theme of the jobless data and the Fed report, Mr. Roberts said, suggesting to investors that ''maybe private enterprise really isn't taking over, and the government stimulus is as good as it gets.''
The reports were the latest to highlight the challenges to the manufacturing sector, which appears to have stopped rebuilding its inventories.
''It is not a surge anymore,'' said Daniel J. Meckstroth, the chief economist for Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI. ''We had a surge in the third and fourth quarters because there was an inventory swing going on.''
Several states were hit particularly hard by the rise in initial weekly unemployment claims. California showed an increase of 4,393 claims because of layoffs in the service industry. Indiana showed a rise of 1,999 because automotive and manufacturing workers were let go. Texas, Illinois, Florida and Georgia were also stung by cuts in manufacturing jobs.
Mr. Meckstroth said there were job declines in furniture, apparel, chemicals and electronics. But in other industries, employment rose 1.4 percent since the beginning of the year until mid-July, compared with a rise of less than 1 percent across the economy, he said.
The disappointing economic reports matched other data that has shown weak consumer confidence. Some analysts expect second-quarter economic growth to be revised down to 1 to 1.5 percent, from an initial estimate of 2.4 percent.
The computer maker Dell, considered a bellwether for consumer and corporate spending, said after the market closed Thursday that its net income improved 16 percent in the last quarter, but it saw weakening demand for personal computers. Dell shares closed down 15 cents, to $12.04.
Bank shares declined despite the First Niagara Financial Group's announcement that it had agreed to buy NewAlliance Bancshares of Connecticut for about $1.5 billion in stock and cash, the first bank deal to commence without government help in many months. First Niagara finished the day off 83 cents, at $11.95. NewAlliance rose $1.42, to $12.78.
Also on Thursday, the chip maker Intel said it was acquiring McAfee, a maker of antivirus software, in a deal valued at $7.68 billion, a 60 percent premium over McAfee's closing price on Wednesday.
Shares of McAfee ended the day up $17.08, to $47.01, on Thursday. Intel was down 69 cents, to $18.90.
Bond prices rose as yields dropped. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.58 percent, from 2.63 percent Wednesday.
''The uptick in jobless claims which was fairly severe and the amount of receiving in interest swaps ended most of the overnight sell-off in the bond market,'' said Tom di Galoma, head of United States rates trading at Guggenheim Securities.
The Conference Board said its index of leading economic figures rose 0.1 percent last month to 109.8. That was a reversal from a 0.3 percent drop in June, and a 0.5 percent increase in May.
Economists polled by Thomson Reuters had expected a gain of 0.2 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Los Angeles union members protested the lack of jobs. California's jobless claims rose this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK RALSTON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B6) CHARTS: PHILADELPHIA AREA MANUFACTURING ACTIVITY: An index of manufacturing conditions, based on a survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, indicated declining activity in August. (Source: Bloomberg) (B1)
Often Darker Before a Dawn: After a recession, jobless claims sometimes rise again without indicating a new downturn. (Source: Bloomberg)
The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
Leading Indicators: An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
 2004 =100. (Source: The Conference Board) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CENSUS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (61%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



469 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Farmers Are Wary of Gambling on Russia's Troubles

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
SPRINGFIELD, Colo. -- Russia's ban on grain exports, in response to a devastating drought, has sent prices shooting up all over the world. But farmers here in wheat country, far from seeing the spike as an unexpected blessing, are wary.
As planting time approaches next month, they are balancing the possibility of greater income against the failed promises of the past, when bonanzas turned bust, sometimes at terrible cost. Even many who plan to plant more wheat are begrudging and hesitant -- fearful that global dynamics could shift again before next year's harvest.
Prices hit a two-year high recently, up 57 percent in less than three months. And on Thursday, the price of wheat spiked again after mellowing in the last weeks on reports that Russia may have to import millions of tons of wheat.
''The market says plant more,'' said Eugene Schroder, who farms about 4,000 acres here in the flatlands of southeast Colorado near the Oklahoma border, where agriculture's fingerprint stretches beyond the eye's ability to see -- some fields stubbled and cleared in post-harvest, others tasseled and green with corn. 
Mr. Schroder said he feared that wheat prices were being driven by speculators, as was the case a few years ago, just before the recession, when the price soared and then crashed.
''What is this wheat market? I don't have a clue, and I'm a professional wheat farmer,'' he said. ''There's a complete lack of transparency.''
And yet, if good wet weather holds up in the next few weeks, he plans to follow the market's signal and quadruple the number of acres in wheat. Mr. Schroder's nephew, Curtis Schroder, who farms about 10,000 acres, said he was contemplating about the same degree of expansion on his land -- to 640 acres, from 160 acres in this most recent crop.
Planting plans are always closely held, and difficult to decipher. Nonetheless, even talk like that, repeated over morning coffee by men in baseball caps and coveralls, sends a shiver down the spine of people like A. C. Chenoweth.
Mr. Chenoweth, 89, vividly remembers how the grasslands here in Baca County were broken up for wheat beginning in the 1920s when he was a farm boy. By the mid-'30s, the loosened earth -- parched by drought and abandoned by impoverished homesteaders -- was lifted up in vast, swirling brown clouds. Southeast Colorado became one of the Dust Bowl's epicenters.
''Especially to an old codger like me that saw it first hand, you wonder if it might happen again,'' he said. ''It worries you.''
Even before Russia's drought, wheat was on the rise in Baca County.
Thousands of acres of grassland formerly protected under a federal system called the Conservation Reserve Program were shifted into open-market farming uses in the last few years -- and much of that went to wheat.
From 2008 to 2009 alone, about 100,000 new acres of winter wheat went into cultivation in the county, according to federal figures -- the biggest one-year jump since the late 1950s.
This year, a quirk of crop insurance, which locks in grain prices for policies based on a window that was set in the last few weeks -- after Russia announced the ban on grain exports on Aug. 5 -- could accelerate the trend, farm experts said, or prompt farmers in other parts of the country to give wheat another look.
''I can plant this wheat and be guaranteed a pretty sweet income,'' said Bill Spiegel, a spokesman for the Kansas Association of Wheat Growers, referring to the insurance window. ''That's something a savvy farmer has to consider.''
But there are also reasons why another wheat boom -- let alone another Dust Bowl -- is not in the offing.
One is that wheat, the historic amber-waved grain of the American breadbasket, is out of fashion -- a beleaguered has-been crop on many farms, supplanted by the modern cash-cow of farming: corn, used for everything from ethanol fuel to food additives to animal feed.
Fewer acres of wheat were planted nationally last year than any year since 1971, according to federal figures. Kansas, the biggest wheat-producing state, had fewer acres in cultivation this year than any since 1957.
Another brake on any irrational exuberance over wheat will be farmers' own suspicions, despite the incentives of higher prices.
Some think they are being played, and that the big run-up is partly, or largely, just market manipulation -- like the increase in 2007 and 2008 that drove wheat prices more than twice as high as they are now before a gut-wrenching crash during the global recession.
''I hate to sound negative, but I've been burned so many dang times on wheat that I think I'm done,'' said Olea McCall, who farms about 4,000 acres near the Kansas border, mostly in corn, wheat and sorghum. Mr. McCall said his attitude was not helped by missing out on the new rise in prices.
''I sold at 4, and three weeks later went to 6,'' he said, referring to the price in dollars per bushel.
He said he thought the climate was changing, too -- hotter in summer and colder in spring -- making the high plains less favorable to wheat. He has been steadily reducing wheat acres and plans to keep going in that direction.
And there is another echo of the past that matters to farmers old enough to remember. In 1972 and 1973, in the spirit of thawed tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union, the United States sold hundreds of millions of bushels of wheat to the Soviets after another disastrous crop failure there.
This month's price spike is eerily similar to what happened then, said Colorado's agriculture commissioner, John R. Stulp, who is also a wheat farmer. And the response could well be same, too -- overreaction and overproduction, leading to a glut and a crash in prices.
''It took 20 years to sort the market out after that,'' Mr. Stulp said of the 1972-73 price bubble.
But there is also a big division between farmers who sold just before the recent price increase, like Mr. McCall, and those lucky enough, or cagey enough, to have held on -- keeping their grain in storage, and their powder dry.
Mr. Chenoweth, for example, who farms about 3,200 acres -- mostly in wheat, with no plans to expand -- said he was still sitting tight on his grain stocks, waiting for the higher prices he believes will come.
''You've got to know when to hold your cards,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A. C. Chenoweth, in top photo and at left above, worries about giving too much ground over to wheat. Eugene Schroder, at right, feels he doesn't really understand the market. More photographs: nytimes.com/national. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); WHEAT FARMING (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



470 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: With No Letup in Pakistan's Misery, U.S. Increases Aid

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL; Salman Masood contributed reporting from Islamabad, Pakistan; Ismail Khan from Jaray, Pakistan; and Mark Landler from Washington.

 BODY:
JAMPUR, Pakistan -- In some places, the water covers everything, dotted only by the tops of mango trees. Even here, with homesteads and roads on slightly raised lands, mud-brick houses have dissolved and all that remains are pitiful piles of debris where they once stood.
Livestock and people camp on dirt roads that are often the only dry spots between acres of water. People cram into boats ferrying between villages, while a few motorbikes wend their way through the shallows.
As Pakistan grapples with a staggering disaster that has left millions homeless and many more cut off without food or clean water, the urgency of the situation was made clear to Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who broke up a visit to Afghanistan to view the flood damage here on Thursday.
He flew over a vast expanse of flooded villages in Punjab Province with Pakistan's president, Asif Ali Zardari, as the waters spread across the plain for miles; crowds swarmed at the edge of their landing pad. More than 1,100 people were housed in neat blue tents in an army compound, but their anxiety and frustration was palpable. 
As Pakistani officials briefed Mr. Kerry beside his helicopter, the governor of Punjab asked aloud whether the people were very angry. ''Naturally they are angry,'' the district commissioner, Hassan Iqbal, answered. Mr. Zardari frowned.
Both here and at home, American officials spoke of the vast humanitarian task ahead, hoping to bolster the relationship between the nations, which is widely viewed as critical for stability in the region.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton urged countries to step up their response to the devastating floods, pledging an additional $60 million in aid. That raised the total American commitment to $150 million.
Speaking to a special session of the United NationsGeneral Assembly on Thursday, she referred to the feebleness of the global fund-raising effort so far.
''I realize that many countries, including my own, are facing tough economic conditions and very tight budgets,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''And we've also endured an unrelenting stream of disasters this year -- from the earthquake in Haiti to the wildfires in Russia. But we must answer the Pakistani request for help.''
Closer to the devastation, Mr. Kerry spoke at an air base where United States Marines and members of the Pakistani Army were flying joint missions to take food to the northern mountain valley of Swat and rescue stranded villagers. ''All of us are cooperating to deal with insurgency and violence,'' Mr. Kerry told Marines and Pakistani troops in a hangar at the base. ''This is an additional test.''
Last year, the picturesque hillsides and towns in the Swat Valley were transformed into a battleground when government troops tried to drive out the Taliban forces that had set up a haven there. Millions were displaced, fleeing both the Taliban and the shelling and fighting that followed as the Pakistani military retook control last spring.
But months after residents began returning, the flooding has ruined their hopes for a respite from the relentless upheaval and renewed their fears that Taliban forces might now seize on the disorder to re-establish a foothold.
In helping the mountainous region now, Mr. Kerry openly acknowledged a double concern. ''The objective is humanitarian, but obviously there is a national security interest,'' he said. ''We do not want additional jihadis, extremists, coming out of a crisis.''
In Pakistan's northwest, some hard-line Islamic groups have been providing shelter and food to flood victims, exploiting gaps in the government's slow and haphazard initial response.
More aid is now flowing, but the concerns remain. While in New York to draw the world's attention to the crisis, Pakistan's foreign minister, Shah Mehmood Qureshi, said that extremist organizations would capitalize on any vacuum in humanitarian assistance.
''Obviously, they would like to exploit the situation,'' he said. ''The possibility is there, and we have to guard against it.''
Trying to cast a positive light on the calamity, Mr. Kerry suggested that the humanitarian effort would force the nation's civilian government to step up to the challenge and improve its performance to meet the needs of the population.
''There is a real willingness to build capacity, and that can strengthen the government,'' he said.
Yet the fear is that another disaster after years of turmoil -- Pakistan lost 73,000 people in a devastating earthquake in Kashmir in 2005, and has suffered thousands of casualties in the war against Islamist militants since 2007 -- will set the country back decades.
''The economic impact is going to be huge,'' said Anne W. Patterson, the American ambassador to Pakistan, who was traveling with Mr. Kerry.
Pakistan was expecting a food surplus this year, so even with the huge losses of food and grain from the floods the country could probably still feed itself, Ms. Patterson said. But food prices will soar, she said, affecting the poorest sector of the population.
''The price rises are going to be terrible, and the poor people are going to be crowded out,'' Ms. Patterson said.
Here in Jampur, Nazar Hussein, 35, described how his family of nine had to flee in the night, carrying the children through chest-high water.
''We were in our house sleeping; it was about 9 p.m. at night when we heard the neighbors shouting,'' he said.
''We were very frightened,'' he added as his small daughters pressed against him. His house, built of mud bricks and plaster, had collapsed under the weight of the water, he said.
Mr. Hussein, a laborer, said that even when the water receded he would not be able to afford the $6,000 it would cost to rebuild his house. ''We are waiting for the government,'' he said. ''Without government help we cannot do it.'' To enable the reconstruction effort, Mr. Zardari said, ''we will provide debit cards so they can receive money directly and rebuild their houses.''
The system of paying money directly to households so that they can do their own rebuilding worked well after the earthquake, as well as for people displaced by fighting last year.
But officials were still working out how much damage has been done. Though the waters were receding in Punjab Province, they were still rising in the southernmost province of Sindh, where the waters will eventually spill into the Arabian Sea.
The scale of the disaster is clearly tremendous. On Thursday, the United Nations raised the number of people left homeless by the floods to 4.6 million.
''This is a rough estimate and includes hundreds of thousands still on the move,'' said Maurizio Giuliano, the United Nations spokesman in Pakistan. ''In this context, we have decided to increase the number of targeted beneficiaries for tents and plastic sheeting from the initial figure of two million to at least six million.''
The Asian Development Bank, meanwhile, said it would loan Pakistan $2 billion to rebuild from the floods, which have covered at least one-fifth of the country and claimed as many as 1,600 lives.
Mrs. Clinton also urged American families to donate. ''More than 20 million Pakistanis have been affected by the worst natural disaster in Pakistan's history,'' she said. ''The enormity of this crisis is hard to fathom, the rain continues to fall, and the extent of the devastation is still difficult to gauge.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Children who fled Pakistan's floods slept on a median near Nowshera. ''The economic impact is going to be huge,'' the United States ambassador, Anne W. Patterson, said of the devastation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMMAD SAJJAD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAPS: Extent of the Flooding: Millions have been left homeless by flooding that extends across Pakistan. An analysis by Unitar/Unosat, an agency of the United Nations, of satellite images taken since the beginning of August shows thousands of square miles of water-covered land along the Indus River. (Sources: Flooded areas from Unitar/Unosat
 damage reports from United Nations and aid agencies) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOODS & FLOODING (88%); ARMIES (88%); TALIBAN (78%); MILITARY BASES (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (72%); EARTHQUAKES (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); HELICOPTERS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (78%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); HAITI (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



471 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Don't Drop Out of School Innovation

BYLINE: By PAUL TOUGH. 
Paul Tough, a former staff editor at The New York Times Magazine, is the author of ''Whatever It Takes: Geoffrey Canada's Quest to Change Harlem and America.''

 BODY:
HOW much evidence does the government need before trying something new in the troubled realm of public education? Should there be airtight proof that a pioneering program works before we commit federal money to it -- or is it sometimes worth investing in promising but unproven innovations?
Last month, the Senate subcommittee that allocates federal education money weighed in on one such promising innovation, slicing, by more than 90 percent, the $210 million that President Obama requested for next year for his Promise Neighborhoods initiative.
Mr. Obama first proposed Promise Neighborhoods in the summer of 2007, pledging that, as president, he would help create in 20 cities across the country a new kind of support system for disadvantaged children, paid for with a mix of private and public money. In a single distressed neighborhood in each city, Mr. Obama explained, high-quality schools would be integrated into a network of early-childhood programs, parenting classes, health clinics and other social services, all focused on improving educational outcomes for poor children. 
The Obama administration requested and received from Congress $10 million for the program for fiscal year 2010, and the Department of Education used that money to create a national competition for up to 20 Promise Neighborhoods planning grants. Although the grants were capped at a modest $500,000, the response to the program was overwhelming -- 339 nonprofit groups and institutions of higher education from across the country formed coalitions, raised matching funds and filed applications.
Promise Neighborhoods was inspired by the example of the Harlem Children's Zone, which over the last decade has compiled a solid, though still incomplete, record of success in the 97 blocks of central Harlem where it operates. Students at the group's two charter elementary schools, mostly low-income and almost all black or Hispanic, have achieved strong results on statewide tests, often exceeding average proficiency scores for white students. Last year, 437 parents completed Baby College, the Zone's nine-week parenting class, and 99 percent of the children graduating from the prekindergarten entered kindergarten on grade level. This fall, more than 200 students from the Zone's afterschool programs will enroll as freshmen in college.
The central argument against fully financing the Promise Neighborhoods initiative, given voice in recent weeks by various policy groups, journalists and bloggers, is that despite such promising data, the Zone has not yet proved itself.
This case was made most forcefully in a report from the Brookings Institution that came out a week before the Senate committee's vote. The report acknowledged that the charter schools at the heart of the Zone have, indeed, substantially raised test scores for the children enrolled in them.
But the report also argued that the scores are not as high as those at some other charter schools in Manhattan and the Bronx that don't include the kind of coordinated system of early-childhood programs, family support and neighborhood improvements offered by the Harlem Children's Zone.
It is no coincidence that charter schools in and near the Harlem Children's Zone have earned such impressive results. Over the last few years, thanks in part to intensive recruiting by the New York City schools chancellor, Joel Klein, Harlem and the Bronx have become a mecca for a highly successful class of charter schools, all run, to some degree, on the model of the nationwide, nonprofit Knowledge is Power Program: extended hours, energetic young teachers, an emphasis on discipline and character-building, as well as heavy doses of reading and math.
These schools embody the attractive theory that we might be able to erase the achievement gaps between black and white children and between poor and middle-class children with nothing more than new and improved schools. But despite their robust test scores, there continue to be debates over whether these charter schools work for the most disadvantaged children in neighborhoods like Harlem, and no one has yet demonstrated whether the KIPP model could succeed at the scale of an entire school system.
Geoffrey Canada, the founder of the Harlem Children's Zone, premised his organization on the idea that schools like KIPP's, though needed, are not enough on their own. To solve the problem of academic underperformance by low-income children, he argues, we must surround great schools with an effective system of additional services for poor families.
These two strategies -- call them the KIPP strategy and the Zone strategy -- are not fully in opposition; they borrow ideas and tactics from each other. But they do represent distinct theories, both new, both promising and, at this point, both unproven.
So, at this moment of uncertainty and experimentation, should the federal government wait, as critics of Promise Neighborhoods suggest, until ironclad evidence for one big solution exists?
Or should it create a competitive research-and-development marketplace to make bets on innovations, the way the government did during the space race and in the early days of the Internet, and allow the most successful strategies to rise to the top? In his 2007 speech, Mr. Obama made it clear that he envisioned Promise Neighborhoods as precisely this kind of laboratory. ''Every step these cities take will be evaluated,'' he proposed, ''and if certain plans or programs aren't working, we will stop them and try something else.''
A certain skepticism with regard to innovation is always wise, especially in public education, where highly touted new programs often turn out to be disappointments. The problem is that for low-income and minority Americans, the status quo is a deepening calamity. The New York state test results released last month showed that the gap in reading scores between black and white elementary- and middle-school students grew from 22 percentage points in 2009 to 30 points in 2010, while the math gap grew from 17 points to 30 points.
In May, the National Center for Education Statistics reported that in the nation's high-poverty schools, the average graduation rate for 12th-grade students fell from 86 percent in 2000 to 68 percent in 2008, while the rate in low-poverty schools remained stable at about 91 percent.
The declining prospects of the country's poor and black students can't be blamed on belt-tightening by Congress. In fact, the budgets for the two main federal programs designed to improve the performance of low-income children, Title I and Head Start, have risen steadily for the last 40 years, through Republican administrations and Democratic ones. According to a new report by Educational Testing Service, the combined Title I and Head Start budgets grew in inflation-adjusted dollars from $1.7 billion in 1970 to $13.8 billion in 2000. This year's budget was $21.7 billion.
Head Start, which provides preschool programs to poor families, is a prime example of the Senate committee's true attitude toward evidence-based decision-making. In January, the Health and Human Services Department released a study of Head Start's overall impact. The conclusions were disturbing. By the end of first grade, the study found, Head Start graduates were doing no better than students who didn't attend Head Start. ''No significant impacts were found for math skills, pre-writing, children's promotion, or teacher report of children's school accomplishments or abilities in any year,'' the report concluded.
And how did the Senate panel react to this dismal evidence? They set aside $8.2 billion for Head Start in 2011, almost a billion dollars more than in 2010. Of course, the fact that Congress spends billions of dollars each year on unproven programs does not itself argue that the government should start spending hundreds of millions of new dollars on new unproven programs. But it does undercut the argument that federal education dollars should be reserved only for conclusively proven initiatives.
Children who live in the 300-plus low-income neighborhoods that are pursuing Promise Neighborhoods support are, on the whole, stuck. Every year, their schools and Head Start centers receive more federal money, and every year, things in their neighborhoods get worse. Rather than stick with the same strategies and hope things somehow magically change, Congress should find more room in the budget to support the Obama administration's declared approach: to try new strategies and abandon failed ones; to expand and test programs with strong evidence of success, even if that evidence is inconclusive; and to learn from mistakes and make adjustments as we go.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY M. K. PERKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); MATCHING GIFTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PARENTING SUPPORT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAMILY (75%); PARENTING (75%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (75%); CHILD POVERTY (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (68%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); WRITERS (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (53%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



472 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: For H.P. and Dell, Troubles at the Top Have Yet to Hurt the Bottom Line

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE and MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Executives from Hewlett-Packard and Dell, America's two largest computer makers, ought to be rejoicing when parents open their wallets in August to arm their offspring with shiny new computers for the school year.
But H.P. and Dell find themselves in the middle of a summer of tumult. Scandal has rattled both boardrooms and tarnished the reputations of their chief executives. 
Yet both companies delivered solid quarterly results on Thursday, easing investors' concerns. Some analysts warned that boardroom troubles at H.P. and Dell could affect those companies' performance at a time when competition from the nimble PC companies in Taiwan -- Acer and Asustek -- was increasing.
''When a company stumbles, many of their hardware and software partners try to negotiate deals on better terms, and we are hearing that may be happening with both H.P. and Dell,'' said Richard Doherty, research director for the Envisioneering Group, a technology research and consulting company. ''Over the next few weeks and months, if trouble at these companies continues, we may see ripples.''
Mr. Doherty cautioned that it often took some time for these kinds of situations to play out and that boardroom issues failed to register with consumers. But both suppliers and corporations tend to try and seize on a perceived weakness, he said.
H.P. spent the last two weeks answering questions about the abrupt resignation of its chief executive, Mark V. Hurd. The company's board urged Mr. Hurd to resign after an investigation into a sexual harassment complaint from an H.P. contractor.
While H.P.'s board found no evidence of sexual harassment, it concluded that Mr. Hurd's personal relationship with the contractor, who had acted in racy films, was a conflict of interest and that Mr. Hurd had filed fraudulent expense reports.
Supporters in both camps have since engaged in a nasty public spat, leaking details about H.P.'s investigation.
At Dell last month, the company paid $100 million to settle charges of accounting fraud leveled by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which examined about five years of the company's financial results. The S.E.C. accused Dell of misleading investors by playing down how much the company had come to rely on rebates from the chip maker Intel to meet its earnings goals.
Michael S. Dell, founder and chief executive at Dell, agreed to pay $4 million as well, while not admitting any wrongdoing.
During a subsequent shareholder vote, about 25 percent of the votes cast opposed Mr. Dell's presence on the company's board. Historically, shareholders had shown near unanimous support for Mr. Dell.
While these issues continue to play out, sales of computing gear to consumers and corporations made by H.P. and Dell have marched along.
H.P. reported Thursday that its third-quarter revenue rose 11 percent to $30.7 billion from the $27.6 billion it posted in the same period a year ago. Its net income rose 6 percent, to $1.8 billion, or 75 cents a share.
Dell's second-quarter revenue surged 22 percent to $15.5 billion, from $12.8 billion last year. The company posted a 16 percent rise in net income to $545 million, or 28 cents a share.
Executives at both companies have talked about rising corporate demand for new PCs, and their results backed that up. Desktop sales rose 17 percent at Dell, while notebook sales were up 21 percent. H.P.'s computer sales rose 17 percent on a large increase in desktop sales.
But both H.P. and Dell can hear the footsteps coming from Taiwan. Acer has introduced an ultra-low-cost business model that centers on selling laptops through retail partners, while Asustek has flooded the market with flashy laptops and game-playing products.
Last year, Acer surpassed Dell in PC sales, the first time that a foreign PC maker could boast being the world's second-largest computing company, behind H.P. And through the first half of this year, Acer has been closing the gap on H.P. for the title of the world's No. 1 PC seller.
For its part, Asustek climbed into the top five in the second quarter, according to the research firm Gartner, with 78.5 percent growth.
H.P. executives dismissed concerns the Asian PC makers were outflanking the company. ''We feel that we have a very strong, very competitive PC business,'' Cathie Lesjak, H.P.'s chief financial officer and interim chief executive, said in a conference call with reporters.
Ms. Lesjak noted H.P.'s strong sales to corporations, also a source of strength for Dell. The Asian rivals tend to cater more to consumers.
''In general, I would say, bring it on,'' Ms. Lesjak said.
Dell has tried to counter the Asian onslaught by selling in brick and mortar retail stores and sending more of its manufacturing overseas to lower costs. And, as the largest seller of corporate PCs, Dell hopes to ride a big businesses refresh cycle as the economic recovery gains strength.
The entire PC market is in the throes of great change with mobile phone makers and carriers getting into the tablet market. Both H.P. and Dell will have to contend with those upstarts, while trying to establish their own place in the tablet world.
Before Mr. Hurd departed, he cleared the acquisition of the smartphone company Palm to give H.P. its own technology for competing in the mobile and hand-held market.
Shares of H.P. fell more than 1 percent during Thursday's trading to $40.76, and then lost about 1 percent more in after-hours trading. Dell's shares closed on Thursday at $12.04, down more than 1.2 percent, and fell an additional 2 percent in after-hours trading.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: H.P. computers on sale at J &R Music and Computer World in Manhattan. Dell and H.P. face growing competition from two rivals in Taiwan, Acer and Asustek. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (85%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); SCANDALS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); EVIDENCE (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (64%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (64%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (91%); INTEL CORP (83%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (91%); INTC (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (79%); MICHAEL DELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



473 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Once Banished From Campaign Trail, Clinton Is Now a Top Salesman

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
DELRAY BEACH, Fla. -- The last time Bill Clinton and Barack Obama spent so many hours on the campaign trail, dashing across the country to appear before adoring crowds, they were on different sides of the Democratic argument.
So that is exactly where Mr. Clinton began when he arrived here this week.
''It's no secret that I tried hard to defeat President Obama in the primaries -- and some of you helped,'' Mr. Clinton said, drawing a laugh from an audience in Palm Beach County, a place that was slow to embrace Mr. Obama two years ago.
''But I want to tell you something,'' he continued, waiting for the crowd to listen. ''It is my professional opinion that he has done a much better job than he has gotten credit for so far. And all elections are about the future, so what is the alternative?'' 
A coast-to-coast campaign swing by Mr. Obama this week, his biggest plunge into the midterm election season to date, drew considerable attention as he raised money for Democrats in five states over three days. But in a series of less noticed trips to every corner of the country, it is Mr. Clinton who has stepped into the role of defending all Democrats -- Mr. Obama included.
Few people may have more credibility paying a compliment to Mr. Obama than Mr. Clinton. Tense exchanges between the two men were an unforgettable element of the 2008 presidential race, which by all accounts Mr. Clinton took far longer to get over than Hillary Rodham Clinton did.
''If you're a Democrat, you need to hold your head up,'' Mr. Clinton said this week, delivering the pep talk of a coach who is disappointed with his team's behavior. ''I'm tired of reading about how we're all belly-aching.''
The former president has become one of the party's best salesmen. He has long been in demand to raise money for Democratic candidates, but now there is a more pressing need: raising the spirits of Democratic voters, dispensing wisdom as he works to put the party's political challenges into a broader context.
A decade after he was banished from the campaign trail -- seen at the time as a liability to Vice President Al Gore's presidential ambitions -- Mr. Clinton is now the most sought-after Democrat, logging 29 stops so far this year with more to come in the fall. He has been embraced by Democrats wherever he goes, even as several candidates have run the other way when Mr. Obama has arrived in their state.
In Nevada, Mr. Clinton campaigned for Senator Harry Reid in June. (''Why would you give away the Senate majority leader who has delivered time and time and time again?'' Mr. Clinton asked a crowd in Las Vegas.)
In Pennsylvania, as he appeared this month for Representative Joe Sestak in his Senate race, he warned about what could happen if Republicans win control of Congress. (''Give us two more years, and if we're wrong, send us packing,'' he argued.)
And here in Florida, he made stops on Monday in Palm Beach, Broward and Miami-Dade Counties on behalf of Representative Kendrick B. Meek, a longtime friend who faces an uphill Senate race. (''We haven't built our way out of that hole as fast as anybody wanted, but it was a very deep hole,'' Mr. Clinton told his audience.)
Mr. Clinton, who gives precedence to Democrats who endorsed Mrs. Clinton's presidential bid, makes use of the perspective and latitude afforded to former presidents.
This week, as both Mr. Obama and Mr. Clinton passed through Florida, Democrats had the chance to see the distinct styles of the 42nd and 44th presidents side by side. Mr. Clinton is more cerebral, delivering a thorough recitation of the economic condition and discussing how the challenges of today are more severe than those of his time in office. Mr. Obama, after ticking through his policy achievements, edged closer to mockery of his rivals.
''Remember our campaign slogan, 'Yes we can'?'' Mr. Obama told a fund-raising audience Wednesday evening at the Fontainebleau hotel in Miami Beach. ''This year, their campaign slogan is, 'No, we can't.' It's pretty inspiring, huh? You know, you wake up in the morning and you hear 'No!' That just puts a little pep in your step.''
By the time Mr. Obama returned to the White House a few hours later, he had raised millions of dollars for the Democratic Party across the country, in Florida, California, Washington State, Wisconsin, Ohio. Along the way, he honed his fall message and spent nearly as much time criticizing Republicans as promoting his own achievements.
For Mr. Clinton's part, the utterances of a past president are not scrutinized as closely as the words of a sitting one, so he speaks a bit more bluntly now than when he was in office. His words are passionate, yet not personal. He conceded that the economic condition of the country has not improved as much as people hoped it would after Democrats took control of Congress in 2006 and the White House two years later.
''A year and a half just wasn't enough time to get us out of the hole we were in,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''So I want you to stick with us. Give us two more years -- two more years until another election. If we fail, you can throw us all out.''
There is one word, though, that Mr. Clinton does not say: Bush.
Some Democrats have started mentioning former President George W. Bush with such frequency that you might think he had been written into the party's platform. But Mr. Clinton spoke of the opposition in generic terms, focusing on Republicans in Congress. (Not only has Mr. Clinton joined with Mr. Bush in raising money for rebuilding in Haiti, he also has become a close friend of Mr. Bush's father.)
Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, said the Democratic Party was showing its desperation by spending so much time focusing on his brother. ''It's a loser issue -- they have a big L on their foreheads,'' Mr. Bush said in an interview. ''If that's all they've got, it's a pretty good indication of the problems that the Democrats face in 2010.''
And before Mr. Clinton took the stage here in Delray Beach -- yes, he often still runs very late -- a parade of local Democratic officials warmed up the crowd, with speakers offering sharp criticism of President Bush.
But when Mr. Clinton began speaking, he did not mention his successor in the White House at all, an omission that at least one woman in the crowd said she appreciated.
''I think that's the politically correct thing to do. It's also respectful,'' said Fay Gallam, a social worker from West Palm Beach, who waited hours to see Mr. Clinton for the first time. As she walked away from the gymnasium, she beamed.
''He says just what we need to hear, and because he's articulate, you can follow him and see the logic,'' Ms. Gallam said. ''He's more at liberty now, and President Obama is really under the gun.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former President Bill Clinton campaigned Tuesday in Pennsylvania for Representative Joe Sestak, who is running for the Senate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON FARMER/THE SCRANTON TIMES-TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JOE SESTAK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



474 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: At the Far Edge

 BODY:
For months, it has been clear that Republican Congressional candidates would benefit from independent voters' dissatisfaction with President Obama. With the Republican field now largely in place, all voters might want to take a close look at who those candidates are. 
The party has nominated so many at the far right of the spectrum, as well as some other unusual choices -- Linda McMahon, the candidate for the United States Senate in Connecticut made millions running the sex-and-violence spectacle known as World Wrestling Entertainment -- that the Republican brand is barely recognizable. Consider:
Ken Buck, the United States Senate nominee in Colorado. A former district attorney, he has said that the separation of church and state is too strictly enforced and wants to eliminate the Energy and Education Departments. Until recently, he supported repealing the 17th Amendment, which provides for direct election of senators. In the primary, he said he should win because ''I do not wear high heels'' -- his opponent was a woman. As a federal prosecutor, he was reprimanded by a United States attorney after he gave information about the weakness of a case against gun dealers to the defense.
Rand Paul, the United States Senate candidate in Kentucky and physician, who has criticized the minimum-wage law and the civil rights and fair housing laws. He wants to cut way back on unemployment insurance and has denigrated Medicare as ''socialized medicine.''
Sharron Angle, the United States Senate candidate in Nevada, who believes that same-sex couples should not be allowed to adopt children, that the United States should pull out of the United Nations and that Medicare and Social Security should be phased out in favor of a privatized system. In May, she suggested to The Reno Gazette-Journal that if she failed to defeat her Democratic opponent, Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, then conservatives might have no choice but to turn to violence. ''I look at this as almost an imperative. If we don't win at the ballot box, what will be the next step?'' she said.
Mike Lee, the United States Senate candidate in Utah, who said he favors repealing the progressive income tax and supports a low cap on liability for oil companies that cause extensive environmental damage. He is one of the many Republicans who support changing the 14th Amendment to prohibit American-born children of illegal immigrants from being granted citizenship.
Democrats have hardly been paragons of courage during this election cycle, whipping up phony fears that Republicans are on the verge of dismantling Social Security. Some, notably Senator Reid, have refused to stand with President Obama on the right of Muslims to build a community center and mosque in Lower Manhattan. These new Republican candidates are out of touch with mainstream American values of tolerance and pretty much everything else. They need to be challenged head-on.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (74%); RELIGION (74%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (73%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); MEDICARE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (68%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (66%); MINIMUM WAGE (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); ADOPTION (64%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); CHURCH & STATE (54%); FIREARMS (51%); CITIZENSHIP (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); INCOME TAX (50%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

COMPANY: SPECTRUM ASA (72%)

TICKER: SPU (OSL) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541360 GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYING & MAPPING SERVICES (72%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (72%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (72%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); HARRY REID (58%); MIKE LEE (58%); RAND PAUL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (54%) NEVADA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



475 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Israel Assuaged On Iran Threat, Officials Assert

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI and DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration, citing evidence of continued troubles inside Iran's nuclear program, has persuaded Israel that it would take roughly a year -- and perhaps longer -- for Iran to complete what one senior official called a ''dash'' for a nuclear weapon, according to American officials.
Administration officials said they believe the assessment has dimmed the prospect that Israel would pre-emptively strike against the country's nuclear facilities within the next year, as Israeli officials have suggested in thinly veiled threats.
For years, Israeli and American officials have debated whether Iran is on an inexorable drive toward a nuclear bomb and, if so, how long it would take to produce one. A critical question has been the time it would take Tehran to convert existing stocks of low-enriched uranium into weapons-grade material, a process commonly known as ''breakout.'' 
Israeli intelligence officials had argued that Iran could complete such a race for the bomb in months, while American intelligence agencies have come to believe in the past year that the timeline is longer.
''We think that they have roughly a year dash time,'' said Gary Samore, President Obama's top adviser on nuclear issues, referring to how long it would take the Iranians to convert nuclear material into a working weapon. ''A year is a very long period of time.''
American officials said the United States believed international inspectors would detect an Iranian move toward breakout within weeks, leaving a considerable amount of time for the United States and Israel to consider military strikes.
The American assessments are based on intelligence collected over the past year, as well as reports from international inspectors. It is unclear whether the problems that Iran has had enriching uranium are the result of poor centrifuge design, difficulty obtaining components or accelerated Western efforts to sabotage the nuclear program.
American officials said new intelligence information was being fed into a long-delayed National Intelligence Estimate on Iran's nuclear program.
Now, American and Israeli officials believe breakout is unlikely anytime soon. For one thing, Iran, which claims it is interested in enriching uranium only for peaceful purposes, would be forced to build nuclear bombs from a limited supply of nuclear material, currently enough for two weapons. Second, such a decision would require kicking out international weapons inspectors, eliminating any ambiguity about Iran's nuclear plans.
Even if Iran were to choose this path, American officials said it would probably take Iran some time to reconfigure its nuclear facilities to produce weapons-grade uranium and ramp up work on designing a nuclear warhead.
Israeli officials have indicated that if they saw a race for the bomb under way, they would probably take military action and encourage the United States to join the effort. A spokesman for Israel's embassy in Washington declined to comment for this article. In interviews, Israeli officials said their assessments were coming into line with the American view, but they remain suspicious that Iran has a secret enrichment site yet to be discovered.
American officials said, in contrast to a year ago, that Iran's nuclear program was not currently the central focus of discussions between top leaders in Washington and Jerusalem. During the last visit to Washington by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel in early July, the Iranian program was relatively low on the agenda, according to one senior administration official.
To block Iran's nuclear ambitions, the United States and the European Union recently imposed harsh economic sanctions aimed at choking off Iran's energy supplies and prohibiting foreign banks from doing business with financial institutions inside the country.
Several officials said they believed the mounting cost of the economic sanctions, especially those affecting Iran's ability to import gasoline and develop its oil fields, has created fissures among Iran's political elite and forced a debate about the costs of developing nuclear weapons.
''The argument is over how far to push the program, how close to a weapon they can get without paying an even higher price,'' said the senior administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity because American assessments on these debates are classified. ''And we're beginning to see a lot of divisions inside the leadership on that question.''
Nuclear experts agree that the hardest element of producing a weapon is obtaining weapons-grade material. And for Iran that quest, which stretches back more than 20 years, has not been going well, by most accounts.
For most of this year, Iran has added relatively few centrifuges -- the machines that spin uranium at supersonic speed, enriching it -- to its main plant at Natanz. Only about half of those installed are operating, according to the International Atomic Energy Agency. So far, Iran has produced about 5,730 pounds, enough, with considerable additional enrichment, to produce roughly two weapons.
The public explanation by American officials is that the centrifuges are inefficient and subject to regular breakdowns. And while Iranian officials have talked about installing more advanced models that would be more efficient and reliable, only a few have been installed.
''Either they don't have the machines, or they have real questions about their technical competence,'' Mr. Samore said.
Some of Iran's enrichment problems appear to have external origins. Sanctions have made it more difficult for Iran to obtain precision parts and specialty metals. Moreover, the United States, Israel and Europe have for years engaged in covert attempts to disrupt the enrichment process by sabotaging the centrifuges. Officials concede there are potential vulnerabilities in their assessments. Chief among them is whether Iran has hidden another enrichment center somewhere in the tunnels it has dug throughout the country, including some near Natanz.
Last September, Iran acknowledged to inspectors that it had spent years building such a hidden facility near the city of Qum, buried in a mountain near a major military base. The admission came just days before Western leaders revealed the existence of the facility. But after detailed surveys, and interviews with defectors, officials say they have no evidence a second such facility is under construction.
The current draft of the intelligence report also describes considerable division in Iran about whether the goal of the nuclear program should be to walk right up to the threshold of building an actual bomb -- which would mean having highly enriched uranium on hand, along with a workable weapons design -- or simply to keep enough low-enriched uranium on hand to preserve Tehran's options for building a weapon later.
Even as American and Israeli officials agree that the date that Iran is likely to have a nuclear weapon has been pushed into the future, that does not mean that Israel has abandoned the idea of a possible military strike.
American officials said that Israel was particularly concerned that, over time, Iran's supreme leader could order that nuclear materials be dispersed to secret locations around the country, making it less likely that an Israeli military strike would significantly cripple the program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (88%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); CENTRIFUGES (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



476 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: As Australia's Election Nears, Governing Labor Party Faces a Fight for Survival

BYLINE: By MERAIAH FOLEY

 BODY:
SYDNEY, Australia -- Australia has not had a recession in nearly 20 years. It is one of the few industrialized countries to have emerged unscathed from the global downturn, riding the wave of China's insatiable demand for raw materials. Gross domestic product grew by 2.7 percent last year, according to the Reserve Bank of Australia, and unemployment was an enviable 5.3 percent in July, about half the rate of the United States.
But despite that relative strength, the country's governing Labor Party is facing a fight for survival in an unexpectedly tight election on Saturday, dominated by concerns over immigration policy. Some even see the possibility of a hung Parliament for the first time in 70 years. 
The Labor leader, Julia Gillard, became the country's first female prime minister in June, after ousting the once highly popular Kevin Rudd. But her campaign, marred by missteps and internal party bickering, has faltered. Polls give her a tenuous 3-point lead over her rival, Tony Abbott, the leader of the center-right Liberal Party.
The decline is a remarkable reversal for Labor. Mr. Rudd held some of the highest approval ratings in the country's history, but his popularity plummeted over several issues, some of which are shaking the current campaign.
Under his pro-immigration policies -- Mr. Rudd offered a glowing vision of ''big Australia'' -- Australia's population of 22 million grew by more than 2 percent last year, according to government figures, a rate roughly twice that of most developed countries. Voters widely blame the influx for a host of urban woes, whether traffic jams or hospital waiting times. There has also been unhappiness over the increase in asylum-seekers, most from Afghanistan and Sri Lanka, by way of Indonesia.
Both Ms. Gillard and Mr. Abbott say they will slow immigration and return to using offshore centers for asylum-seekers. Ms. Gillard wants to build a new center in East Timor under the auspices of the United Nations. Mr. Abbott wants to reopen an Australian-run center on the tiny island nation of Nauru that was the focus of criticism from human rights groups under the government of the former conservative prime minister, John Howard.
In May, Mr. Rudd earned the profound enmity of mining and business groups by saying that the royalties they paid on profits from coal, iron ore and other resources had not kept pace with surging gains and proposing a 40 percent tax on ''super profits.''
Ms. Gillard rapidly softened the measure, including dropping the tax to 30 percent, while Mr. Abbott has opposed it entirely.
Another enduring issue is Mr. Rudd's multibillion-dollar stimulus package, which some economists credit with keeping the country out of recession. The program, hastily enacted at the height of the global financial crisis, has been beset by claims of corruption and mismanagement that have dogged the Labor Party throughout the campaign.
While Labor has tried to emphasize the program's success, Mr. Abbot has argued that it was unnecessary and wasteful, and that it devastated the country's budget surplus. The candidates dispute each other's figures, but their economic policies are broadly similar, and they both have vowed to bring the budget back into surplus by 2012-13.
Taking a surprising back seat is the issue of climate change, which swept Labor to power in a landslide victory under Mr. Rudd in 2007. He lost significant support when the government decided to shelve its cap-and-trade energy plan until 2013, citing poor international economic conditions and a lack of certainty in global talks on climate change. But it is rarely mentioned by the candidates, with neither party willing to commit itself to an emissions trading plan or a carbon tax.
Similarly, foreign policy matters that Mr. Rudd made a central focus -- like Australia's engagement in Afghanistan, the strategic alliance with the United States and a growing relationship with China -- have barely been mentioned. Instead, the candidates have spent much of the last two weeks arguing over whether to hold a second televised debate, and quibbling about whether their policy cost estimates were legitimate.
Recent polls indicate that the election on Saturday will be decided by voters in around 20 key electorates, including in Mr. Rudd's home state, Queensland, where many voters are still rankled by his surprise removal.
Ms. Gillard, Mr. Rudd's former deputy, had said for months before she replaced him that she was not interested in doing so. Now she is left seeking to reassure voters that the internal party dramas that led to his expulsion will not be repeated. Some are unconvinced.
''I don't pay much attention to politics,'' said Simela Makridis, a pensioner from western Sydney who is undecided but does not like Ms. Gillard. ''It makes me angry the way she pushed out Rudd. What goes around comes around. If she thinks that it won't happen to her, then she is crazy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (74%); ROYALTIES (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); ISLANDS & REEFS (60%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (58%); HISTORY (51%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

COMPANY: RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: KEVIN RUDD (79%); JULIA GILLARD (79%); JOHN HOWARD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%) AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NAURU (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



477 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures Grind On

 BODY:
There is a lot of grim economic news out there, including Thursday's report that initial claims for unemployment insurance rose to half a million people last week. The news on housing -- where the financial crisis began -- is also bad. And the government's response to high foreclosure rates continues to fall far short of what is needed to help Americans hold on to their homes and to stabilize home prices.
In July, for the 17th month in a row, there were more than 300,000 foreclosures filings, including default notices, auction notices and bank repossessions, according to RealtyTrac, a marketer of foreclosed properties. Over the past eight months, bank repossessions have surged. In July, 92,858 homes were repossessed. 
As repossessed homes are put up for sale, house prices are likely to fall further. As prices fall, more borrowers end up ''underwater'' -- owing more on their mortgages than their homes are worth. That's a big risk factor for default, especially when coupled with high unemployment. Moody's Economy.com estimates that 1.9 million homes will be lost this year, down only slightly from 2 million in 2009.
Unfortunately, there is no evidence that the Obama administration's efforts to address the foreclosure problem will make an appreciable dent. Its main program -- which pays lenders to modify bad loans -- was started over a year ago. So far, only 398,198 loans have been permanently modified. Of the $30 billion allotted to the program, only $321 million has been spent so far.
Part of the problem is poor administration. Homeowners, who apply to their bank or mortgage service company, complain about confusing procedures and lost paperwork. Banks have complained of frequent rule changes from the government.
Obama administration officials have blamed the banks for poor customer service while also arguing that this is inherently difficult to manage; lenders have had to establish new systems and hire people to undertake difficult case-by-case analyses to determine who qualifies for a loan modification. The program's inspector general recently faulted the Treasury Department for failing to set clear goals and benchmarks for the program.
Another big problem is that many lenders, whose participation in the program is voluntary, have been reluctant to aggressively rework bad loans. Reducing a loan's principal balance -- rather than lowering interest levels or extending payout periods -- is often the best chance of keeping underwater borrowers in their homes. Banks have been loath to accept the bigger losses that come with lowering principal. Fearing that banks will drop out of the program altogether, the Treasury has not pushed them hard enough.
The administration has recently begun other, more promising antiforeclosure efforts. So far, they are too small to make a big difference. A total of $4.1 billion has been committed this year for state-based efforts to help unemployed or underwater borrowers in 18 states (and the District of Columbia) that have been hit especially hard by joblessness and falling house prices. About $2 billion worth of projects have been approved and are expected to help 140,000 borrowers.
State efforts to help the unemployed may be easier to implement because they are more likely to involve temporary cash assistance to help pay mortgages, rather than loan modifications. Helping underwater borrowers achieve principal reductions, however, may prove as difficult on the state level as it has been in the federal program.
If these initial state-based efforts are successful, the administration must keep expanding them. The nation badly needs an antiforeclosure plan that is, finally, up to the scale of the problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REPOSSESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



478 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 2065 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES

BYLINE: By SUNITA REDDY

 BODY:
Around Town
Museums and Sites
Cocktails@Cooper-Hewitt Each Friday this month the terrace and garden will be open, rain or shine, from 6 to 9 p.m.; this Friday features music by the jazz ensemble the Ed Fuqua Group, refreshments and entry to the exhibitions. Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, Arthur Ross Terrace and Garden, 2 East 91st Street, Manhattan , cooperhewitt.org; $5; refreshments are not included in the admission price.20100819
Governors Island Free Bike Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., with free hourlong use of rental bicycles through Oct. 8. On Sunday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., vintage Volkswagens will be part of a colorful car show and picnic at the NYC Volkswagen Traffic Jam; volkswagentrafficjam.com. Admission to Governors Island is free, as are the ferries, which leave from the Battery Maritime Building, 10 South Street, in Lower Manhattan, and from Pier 6 at the foot of Atlantic Avenue, in Brooklyn Bridge Park, on Saturdays and Sundays. Ferries begin at 10 a.m. in Manhattan and 11 a.m. in Brooklyn; schedule: govisland.com.20100819 
Museum of Jewish Heritage Through Jan. 2, ''Project Mah-Jongg,'' an exhibition on that game, with scorecards, tiles, aprons and related items. A pickup game with museum personnel is scheduled for Wednesday at 1 p.m.; a free lesson will precede the game at noon. 36 Battery Place, Lower Manhattan , (646) 437-4202, mjhnyc.org; $12, $10 for 65+; $7 for students; free for members and those 12 and younger, for everyone Wednesdays from 4 to 8 p.m. and through Labor Day for active members of the military and up to five members of their families.20100819
New-York Historical Society Through Sept. 5, ''Grateful Dead: Now Playing at the New-York Historical Society,'' a display of instruments, letters, programs, posters and related items. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; enter at 5 West 76th Street because of construction. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street , (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org; $12; $9 for educators and 65+; $7 for students; free at all times for members and children under 12.20100819
Outdoor Arts at Riverbank State Park Friday through Sunday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., the Pulse Ensemble Theater will perform Shakespeare's ''Macbeth,'' set in contemporary Afghanistan, in the amphitheater on Thursdays through Sundays through Aug. 28; pulseensembletheatre.org; reachable from Riverside Drive and 145th Street, Manhattan ; free.20100819
Events
African Diaspora Summer Film Series Thirteen films will screen at the Theater of the Riverside Church, with an opening reception on Friday at 6:30 p.m. and discussions with guest speakers; through Aug. 29. For a complete schedule, see nyadff.org. 91 Claremont Avenue, at 120th Street, Morningside Heights , (212) 870-6784; $15 for opening and closing event; $10; $8 for students and 65+.20100819
Chess Matches in Washington Square Park Sunday from 1 to 5 p.m., the young grandmaster Alex Lenderman will take on challengers to raise funds for the Cadre theater company and its production of ''Art of Attack,'' a play about two chess-playing brothers that is running at La MaMa, 74 East Fourth Street, East Village, as part of the New York International Fringe Festival, fringenyc.org. Prizes include tickets to the show as well as chess sets and free lessons provided by the New York Chess and Game Shop in Park Slope, Brooklyn. Holley Plaza, Greenwich Village , artofattackplay.com; $10 per game.20100819
Grand Central Summer Festival Friday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., 43rd Street, between Lexington and Third Avenues.20100819
Great Irish Festival Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on the Avenue of the Americas, from 42nd to 56th Street.20100819
Greater Astoria Historical Society Saturday at 1 p.m., a history round table on the Battle of 1776 and a screening of ''Liberty! -- The American Revolution''; Quinn Building, 35-20 Broadway, fourth floor, Queens , (718) 278-0700, astorialic.org; free.20100819
Harlem Week This outdoor cultural celebration continues Saturday and Sunday with a Tri-State Junior Tennis Classic event from 1 to 7 p.m., showcasing rising talent at the Fred Johnson Tennis Courts, Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard, at 150th Street; free; (212) 491-3738, harlemjuniortennis.org. Also on Saturday: a fund-raiser for the children of Haiti, with a five-kilometer run and two-mile Family Health Walk-A-Thon starting at Edgecombe Avenue, at 135th Street. The 5K run begins at 8:30 a.m., the 2-mile walk at 9:30 a.m. Registration is from $20 to $25 on the day of event; $15 to $20 in advance. At 7 p.m., a weekly jazz performance featuring Melba Joyce; jazzmobile.org; General Grant National Memorial, Riverside Drive and 122nd Street , (212) 860-4455, harlemweek.com.20100819
Laughter in the Park This outdoor summer series of free comedy continues Sunday at 2 p.m. with Leighann Lord, 135th Street lawn, St. Nicholas Park, Harlem. (718) 419-5515, laughterinthepark.org.20100819
New York City Record and CD Show Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Holiday Inn, 440 West 57th Street, Manhattan , (973) 209-6067, showsandexpos.com; $6; preview from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m., $25.20100819
Outdoor Film Screenings On Saturday at 7 p.m., ''Kirikou and the Wild Beasts'' (2005), an animated film that brings to life African folk tales, in French with English subtitles; with a performance by Mouminatou Camara with Seewe African Dance Company at the Great Hill in Central Park, at West 106th Street; sponsored by the African Film Festival New York; africanfilmny.org. On Sunday about 9 p.m., ''New York, I Love You'' (2009), at Hostelling International New York, 891 Amsterdam Avenue, at 103rd Street; urbanoutdoorsnyc.com/backyard-films.html. On Monday at sunset, ''Bonnie and Clyde'' (1967) in Bryant Park, Avenue of the Americas and 42nd Street, (212) 768-4242; bryantpark.org. Tuesday through Thursday at 8 p.m., the Central Park Conservancy Film Festival celebrates ''Iconic New York'': on Tuesday, the musical ''Fame'' (1980) depicts life in a New York City high school; on Wednesday, the 2009 remake of ''The Taking of Pelham 1 2 3'' showcases the subway lines; on Thursday, ''Saturday Night Fever'' (1977) contains shots of Brooklyn; through Aug. 28 in Central Park, north of the Sheep Meadow, midpark at 69th Street; (212) 310-6600; centralparknyc.org/filmfestival. Also on Thursday at sunset, ''Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade'' (1989), at Brooklyn Bridge Park, Pier 1, Harbor View Lawn, Old Fulton and Furman Streets, Dumbo, Brooklyn; (718) 802-0603; brooklynbridgepark.org. Free, but spectators should provide their own seating, snacks and nonalcoholic beverages. Seating is first come first served.20100819
Summer on the Hudson Festival A six-month performance series, in its 10th annual incarnation, featuring live music, workshops and other activities. Events this weekend and beyond include Los Hermanos Cintron, playing at 7 p.m. on Saturday at the tennis lawn, and the Hudson Warehouse production of ''Romeo and Juliet,'' set in Afghanistan. It begins at 6:30 p.m. on Friday through Sunday and on Thursday at the Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument, Riverside Drive at 89th Street. Riverside Park South at the Hudson River, entrances at West 68th and West 72nd Streets, Manhattan , (212) 408-0219, riversideparkfund.org.20100819
Third Avenue Merchandise Fair Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., from 23rd to 34th Streets, Manhattan.20100819
Spoken Word
Oral History Projects In Brooklyn, visitors' and residents' memories of Coney Island are being collected by the Coney Island Project at the History Project Exhibition Center, Surf Avenue, near West 10th Street, Coney Island. This Saturday and Sunday from 1 to 6 p.m., the topic is memories of landmarks; (718) 266-0012; www.coneyislandhistory.org. Staten Island residents can tell stories of what brought them to the borough at the Conference House Visitors Center, 298 Satterlee Street, Tottenville, Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. or online at conferencehouse.org. The project also seeks stories of all New Yorkers who have had business ties to the Fulton Fish Market in Lower Manhattan; (718) 984-6046.20100819
Walking Tours
Big Onion Walking Tours Saturday at 11 a.m., ''Chelsea and the High Line,'' a Manhattan tour exploring the area's architectural and historic changes, meeting in front of the Chelsea Hotel, 222 West 23rd Street. Tuesday at 1 p.m., ''Historic Harlem,'' an uptown tour including Abyssinian Baptist Church, the Big Apple Night Club and locations associated with the Harlem Renaissance. (212) 439-1090, bigonion.com; $15; $12 for 63+ and students.20100819
'Chico's Gallery Tour' On Sunday at 2 p.m., an East Village tour featuring some of the street art, graffiti and murals created by Antonio Garcia, known as Chico, meeting at the southeast corner of Avenue C and 10th Street. Avenue C and 10th Street, Lower East Side , (201) 788-7196, grafftours.com/tourschedule.aspx; $20; $10 for students with R.S.V.P.20100819
In-Depth Walking Tours Saturday and Sunday at 11 a.m., ''Ayn Rand's Park Avenue,'' looking at where Rand lived and worked; meeting at the southeast corner of Lexington Avenue and 45th Street. (917) 607-9019, indepthwalkingtours.com; $20; $15 for 62+.20100819
Lower East Side Jewish Conservancy Sunday at 11:45 a.m., ''Bialystoker the Beautiful,'' a tour of the neighborhood including the Bialystoker Synagogue and Congregation Beth Hachasidim De Polen, an original 19th-century shtiebl. On Thursday at 1:45 p.m., ''Crossing Delancey,'' a tour of the Angel Orensanz Cultural Foundation's interior, Congregation Chasam Sopher, Streit's Matzoh Factory Outlet and Economy Candy. Both tours meet at 400 Grand Street, between Clinton and Suffolk Streets . 20100819
Municipal Art Society Saturday at 10 a.m., ''Snyder in Williamsburg,'' a Brooklyn tour examining how the building of public schools after the opening of the Williamsburg Bridge helped increase the neighborhood's population; meeting on the southeast corner of Broadway and Havemeyer. Sunday at 6 p.m., ''From Beekman Place to Mount Vernon,'' a Manhattan tour covering the architecture and residents of the 1920s, meeting at the northwest corner of First Avenue and 49th Street. (212) 935-2075, mas.org/tours; $15 each, or $10 for members.20100819
Museum at Eldridge Street Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Five Points in America,'' a tour of the former Five Points area and parts of what is now Chinatown, exploring the Jewish history of the area. Thursday at 7 p.m., ''Sacred Sites,'' a look at the churches, synagogues and temples in the Lower East Side. Both tours meet at the Eldridge Street Synagogue, 12 Eldridge Street. (212) 219-0888, eldridgestreet.org; $15 each.20100819
National Parks of New York Harbor Conservancy Saturday at 2 p.m., ''This Hallowed Ground: Slavery in New York,'' a Lower Manhattan tour beginning at Federal Hall and ending at the African Burial Ground. A free, self-guided version of this tour can be downloaded from the organization's Web site onto MP3 players or mobile phones. 26 Wall Street, Lower Manhattan , nyharborparks.org; $12.20100819
NYC Discovery Tours Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Brooklyn Bridge and Brooklyn Heights History and Tasting Tour.'' Two tours are combined for this guided excursion marking the British attack of Brooklyn in 1776. After a walk across the bridge, stops will include Plymouth Church, the Promenade and the Four Chimneys, one of George Washington's headquarters. Brooklyn egg creams, spinach pie and other local foods can be sampled along the way. $25, includes the price of food. On Saturday at 5:45 p.m., ''Historic Wall Street Pubs and Taverns,'' a tour of Manhattan locations associated with Mark Twain, Abraham Lincoln and Captain Kidd. Tour reservations: (212) 465-3331. $18; $5 off for those on the Brooklyn Bridge leg of the tour. Drinks cost extra.20100819
'Union Square: Crossroads of New York' Saturdays at 2 p.m., focusing on this area's political history. Meeting by the statue of Lincoln near the 16th Street transverse. Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership; (212) 517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org; free.20100819
Village Alliance Walking Tour Saturday at noon, meeting on the northwest corner of Second Avenue and St. Marks Place, East Village. Sponsored by the Village Alliance Business Improvement District; (212) 777-2173, villagealliance.org; free. SUNITA REDDY 20100819

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SUMMER ON THE HUDSON FESTIVAL: This six-month performance series, in its 10th annual incarnation, features live music, workshops and other activities. Events this weekend and beyond include Los Hermanos Cintron, playing at 7 p.m. on Saturday at the tennis lawn, and the Hudson Warehouse production of ''Romeo and Juliet,'' above with George K. Wells and Amanda Ochoa and set in Afghanistan. It plays at 6:30 p.m. Friday through Sunday and on Thursday at the Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument, Riverside Drive at 89th Street. Riverside Park South at the Hudson River, entrances at West 68th and West 72nd Streets, Manhattan, (212) 408-0219, riversideparkfund.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSANE LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); CALENDARS (90%); HISTORY (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); STATE PARKS (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); THEATER & DRAMA (64%); FILM (64%); US LABOR DAY (63%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



479 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: City's Unemployment Rate Dips For 7th Straight Month, to 9.4%

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate dipped to 9.4 percent in July, continuing a gradual but steady improvement as hiring rebounded faster locally than in the rest of the country, the state Labor Department said Thursday. 
The city's unemployment rate, which was 9.5 percent in June, has now declined for seven straight months since peaking at 10.5 percent at the end of 2009. It was slightly lower than the national unemployment rate - 9.5 percent in July - as it was in April and May.
Compared with the rest of the nation, the city has ''been showing smaller losses and now bigger gains every month throughout the downturn,'' James Brown, principal economist for the Labor Department, said.In the last 12 months, the number of private-sector jobs in the city has risen by 33,500, or 1.1 percent, according to the state's figures. Over the same period, nationwide private-sector employment has grown by less than 0.1 percent, Mr. Brown said.
Job gains in the city were spread ''almost across the board'' in July after a weaker performance in June, Mr. Brown said. Among the strongest sectors were professional and business services, like accounting and legal work, he said.
The statistics are adjusted for seasonal fluctuations in hiring and firing in various industries, like teaching jobs ending for the summer and interns being hired on at the end of the school year. In reality, the number of jobs declined last month, but the drop was only about one-tenth as big as it usually is in July. With the adjustments, that negative turned to a positive.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



480 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Giants May Pass on Another Summer in Albany

BYLINE: By MARK VIERA

 BODY:
ALBANY -- The mileposts in Giants history since 1996 can be traced to the University at Albany, the host of the team's training camp for the last 15 years.
There was the beginning of the final season for Coach Dan Reeves (1996), then the start of the Tiki Barber era (1997). There was the building of a foundation for a Super Bowl that came up short (2000), then for a run to a third title (2007).
But there is uncertainty about whether the Giants will return here next summer. Their new practice facility in East Rutherford, N.J., could host training camp. In June, the Giants announced they would return to Albany for this year's camp -- with a two-year option to train there through 2012. 
''We really have not discussed that at all,'' John Mara, the team's president, said about the possibility of returning in 2011. ''We like it here, so we'll see.''
General Manager Jerry Reese said: ''We think our facility there in the Meadowlands, we could have our training camp there. We have the fields available, and we have the equipment there. We'd have to house the players and make it fan friendly. We've had discussions about those things, but no decision has been made.''
As much as Albany has been a part of the team's history, the Giants have become a part of the region's fabric in the summer.
Some fans make the trip to Albany a ritual. On average, 33,000 fans visit camp, providing an economic boost of several million dollars to the area each summer, according to the Albany County Convention and Visitors' Bureau. For the university and its athletic programs, it is hard to put a price on the exposure that comes from hosting the Giants.
''We want to keep the Giants, no doubt,'' Albany Mayor Gerald D. Jennings said in a recent telephone interview. ''I'm the eternal optimist and I feel we've been a great partner -- the university and the region -- and I think we're going to be able to keep the Giants.''
Over the years, there have been questions about whether the Giants would continue to come to Albany, and they intensified before this summer's training camp. Although the Giants returned, the uncertainty will be renewed once they break camp Friday.
Albany's relationship with the Giants was threatened with the opening of the team's new practice facility, the Timex Performance Center, last May. It has become common for N.F.L. teams to host training camp, with 17 of 32 staying at their own facilities. (By comparison, only 5 of 31 teams hosted their training camps in 2001.) The Giants' complex includes four full-length fields -- three of them grass and an indoor field made of FieldTurf, a widely used synthetic surface -- a 7,500-square-foot weight room and nine meeting rooms.
At Albany, the Giants practice on six of the university's outdoor fields, many of which were torn up easily this summer. They also use an outdoor artificial turf field. And there is an indoor practice bubble, but it is far from ideal.
The bubble is pressurized, so players must enter one by one in order to keep it from deflating -- a tedious procession when there are 80 players on the roster at the start of training camp. The field is not a full-length field because the complex was not designed for football, and the quality of the artificial surface is considered poor.
''Do I like taking our football team in there? No,'' Albany Coach Bob Ford said in a telephone interview. ''It's not real good turf. It's not great footing, and it's a little dangerous in there. I'm always concerned a little bit about our kids when we have to go inside.''
In reference to Giants Coach Tom Coughlin, Ford added, ''Tom's dealing in multimillion-dollar athletes, and I think it would frighten him to take them in there.''
Over the years, the Albany football program has forged ties with the Giants.
Ford, who has been Albany's coach since 1970, has known Coughlin since he was the coach at Rochester Institute of Technology, from 1970 to 1973. Members of the Giants staff sometimes share tips with Albany's coaches. Also, some Albany football players can be found on the sidelines wearing orange shirts as members of the security staff.
But others at university might not miss the Giants if they left. The Giants displace most members of Albany's athletic department, taking over their offices in the physical education building and a nearby arena.
''I can see how other coaches might gripe,'' said Will Brown, the men's basketball coach, who moves into a storage space cluttered with stacks of old media guides after Coughlin moves into his office for the summer. ''It can be inconvenient. But like I told my staff, it's out of our control, and we're going to have to work regardless.''
Some fans view training camp as a getaway. It draws spectators from all over the country, including some at a recent practice from Ohio, Massachusetts and Connecticut. For Giants fans upstate, though, it is particularly difficult to think about a summer without training camp.
But many here know that questions about the Giants' return are lingering for yet another summer.
''I really hope this is not the last year,'' said Daniel Matuk, 41, of Broadalbin, N.Y. ''It's been a tradition for the last 15 years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gartrell Johnson and Eli Manning during practice at the University at Albany, where the Giants have been going since 1996.
On average, 33,000 fans visit the Giants' training camp and inject several million dollars into the Albany region's economy.
 Travonti Johnson, a defensive back with the Giants, signing autographs for fans on a sweltering August evening after practice. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



481 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: After the Trial, the Banality of Blagojevich Sinks In

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN

 BODY:
James Warren is a columnist for the Chicago News Cooperative.
As you strain for meaning in the trial of Rod R. Blagojevich, you are left with only a portrait in garrulous banality.
You could see it when he was a first-term congressman in the 1990s, when he would openly discuss his presidential aspirations at a Washington dinner table, and recently when he preened as a criminal defendant. Beneath his bravado and craving to please there is a decidedly and even drearily mundane individual -- in words, actions and, now, in the one crime.
For sure, he's entertaining and knows a lot, in a Scrabble-smart sort of way, about subjects like health care, the Cubs and Franklin D. Roosevelt. He might be a strong contestant on ''Wheel of Fortune,'' even if you fear he'd hit on Vanna White in the manner of those testosterone-heavy Chicago males scattered throughout the works of David Mamet (Joe Mantegna might perfectly play Blago).
He easily persuaded Illinois voters to twice elect him governor. In retrospect, shame on us, especially the second time, when the pay-to-play muck was surfacing like a pre-BP oil spill and not enough citizens were listening to the critics -- some of whom shouted loudly from the sadly declining pedestal of the newspaper editorial page. 
Give him slight credit, too, for exhibiting nerve in picking enemies, notably Michael Madigan, the Democratic House speaker and the power behind the creaky Illinois throne and a symbol of much of what's wrong in politics.
During a chance meeting with the then-governor on a four-mile jog a few winters ago, I was beguiled by his visceral and detailed animus toward Mr. Madigan. The two men share key traits: a basic lack of interest in policy and an overriding desire to maintain power.
The problem is that the clashes with Mr. Madigan were only about power. That meant Mr. Blagojevich was overmatched by the speaker, who, for all his failings and his responsibility for the state's financial blight, takes his job seriously, works hard and is a master of the legislative process.
Mr. Madigan doesn't play at being speaker like Mr. Blagojevich played at being governor (the sound of his lifting weights during one wiretapped midday conference call symbolized his professional languor). And he is probably --time will tell --too smart to get caught being as excessive and brazen as Mr. Blagojevich.
Indeed, though Blago, a Democrat, may wind up being lumped in the annals of Illinois government miscreants with his imprisoned predecessor, the Republican George Ryan, the comparison is a disservice to Mr. Ryan. His moral struggle over the death penalty prompted a courageous act, a moratorium on executions and the commuting of sentences of death row inmates.
It's impossible to imagine Mr. Blagojevich's making such an inherently unpopular decision. Mr. Ryan acted on principle and in doing so might have antagonized his future jurors. The indicted Mr. Blagojevich, on the other hand, embarked on a nationwide pretrial quest for empathy that included starring appearances on Don Wade and Roma's morning radio show in Chicago, ''The View'' and Donald Trump's ''Celebrity Apprentice.''
Blago typifies our popular culture more than our politics, namely the growing spotlight on those who can merely be provocative, rather than smart and right. As he used the system, it used him and then spit him out, all the while creating rubbernecking backups as we stopped and stared at his premeditated, grinning self-immolation.
When one of the women on ''The View'' mussed his hair, his fame was enhanced. He seemed so impervious to embarrassment that gaining attention justified any unease. The future predicted by Andy Warhol -- the 15 minutes of fame -- continues to give the impeached governor an extended run in the bright lights of what the Vanity Fair writer Maureen Orth tags the celebrity-industrial complex.
And what exactly was and remains his claim to such attention?
It was curious, since his indictment and impeachment were based on such routine corruption. It was so similar to what has passed before in Illinois: Mr. Ryan, Dan Rostenkowski, a bevy of Chicago aldermen, etc.
Mr. Rostenkowski, a serious-minded and highly effective Congressional power, used federal money to buy ashtrays for friends and traded officially-purchased stamps for cash at the House post office. Robert Cooley, a Chicago mob lawyer, bought off state court personnel, including judges, for piddling sums, mostly $100 to $1,000. The more-than-two-dozen Chicago aldermen who have gone to jail in recent decades have, by and large, been sunk by chump change.
All were a universe away from big-time corporate skulduggery. There was Conrad Black, and what a special Hollinger International investigation termed his ''corporate kleptocracy,'' in which he and cronies were alleged to have raped the company coffers of $400 million over six years. Throw in Tyco and Enron for major-league measure.
Scott Turow, the lawyer-turned-author, suggests there is nothing especially large in stature with Mr. Blagojevich other than, perhaps, his delusions. Whether it was his early plotting in my Washington presence about being president one day, or his Hail Mary lobbying to get a Cabinet position in return for selecting a Barack Obama chum as United States senator, he did think grandly only about himself.
A morals S.W.A.T. team would be confounded in searching for a conscience or a set of values.
To that extent, James Heckman, a University of ChicagoNobel Prize economist, found relevance in the philosopher Hannah Arendt's notion of ''the banality of evil.'' Like the Nazis to whom she referred, the former governor, by and large, proceeded as if what he was doing was normal.
There is one curious difference between Mr. Blagojevich and many other products of an unseemly political culture, in which you look out for your buddies and expect them to reciprocate. As John Mark Hansen, a University of Chicago political scientist, discerned in following the trial, Blago doesn't have many friends.
''He's a political lone wolf who managed to alienate nearly everyone in the political class, including his main political patron, his father-in-law,'' Alderman Richard Mell (33rd Ward), Mr. Hansen said.
Some Blago bagmen were brought down and will go to jail. But most politicians, including many in his own party, should knock on wood that they found dealing with him too frustrating and did not wind up as disembodied voices on F.B.I. wiretaps.
Unavoidably, one might consider Abe Lincoln.
In announcing Mr. Blagojevich's arrest and indictment, Patrick Fitzgerald, the United States attorney in Chicago, referred to a ''crime spree'' that would have had Lincoln rolling in his grave. It was hyperbole that was blind to how Lincoln was himself a political wheeler-dealer who dismissed half the federal bureaucracy before his first inauguration and who was obsessed with political patronage, not merit-based civil service.
If Lincoln had been in the courtroom, he would have smiled knowingly, and grimaced. Like Mr. Blagojevich and Mr. Madigan, Lincoln was all about obtaining and retaining power, notes Harold Holzer, a Lincoln scholar and senior official at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
But Lincoln sought to obtain and retain power to uphold the Union and cleanse the nation of slavery. There was a driving moral purpose. It wasn't power for power's sake.
It's why there is a same old-same old quality to what we must apparently tag as Blagojevich Trial No. 1. A search for greater meaning is doomed by an utterly pedestrian essence.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rod R. Blagojevich (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSe MORe/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); WRITERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); POLITICS (72%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (69%); WIRETAPPING (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (63%); OIL SPILLS (51%); WEIGHTLIFTING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



482 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Behind Fraud Charges, New Jersey's Deep Crisis

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
New Jersey got in trouble with federal regulators this week for misrepresenting the health of its pension funds. But the bigger problem may be what the state was trying to hide: a long-brewing crisis in its ability to pay retirees.
Experts say that governors and legislators, Republicans and Democrats, have all contributed to the problem by refusing to put state money into the funds as they should have. And even if benefits are cut and taxes raised, they said, there is no obvious fix in sight. 
''The whole political culture evolved where the purpose in Trenton was to spend and defer the problems until later,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University.
The state's most recent report said that as of June 2009, the pension funds should have had assets of $112 billion to meet their future obligations, but had only $66 billion -- one of the largest shortfalls, known as unfunded liability, in the country. The situation is probably worse today: The state is supposed to contribute about $3 billion a year to the funds, but amid huge budget deficits and spending cuts, it is in the second consecutive year of contributing nothing.
On Wednesday, New Jersey became the first state ever charged with fraud by the Securities and Exchange Commission, for illegally papering over the pension fund problems in pitches it made to bond investors. The case was simultaneously filed and settled with an order to the state to stop its deception.
The reaction from Trenton was muted. The office of Gov. Chris Christie, a Republican, declined to comment. The State Senate president, Stephen M. Sweeney, a Democrat, issued a statement that called for reform and a resumption of state contributions.
New Jersey has seven state-run funds that pay pensions to 244,000 former state and local government employees or their beneficiaries. Each year, the state uses a set of formulas to determine how much money it is required to contribute, based on factors like the funds' balances and how well investments are expected to perform. And nearly every year, the state budget ignores those calculations.
The problem is that when the state puts in less than the required contribution, that increases the long-term deficit, which in turn raises the amount the formulas will tell the state to pay in future years. In 2002, the last year the funds had a small surplus, the state was supposed to pay $655 million into the system; in the fiscal year that started July 1, 2010, that figure is $3.06 billion. In other states, independently elected treasurers, comptrollers and attorneys general might serve as a check on such budgetary shenanigans, but in New Jersey those officials are appointees of the governor.
That the plans were headed for trouble is not new and not a secret; since the 1990s, financial analysts and a few legislators have been finding fault with the situation.
Deborah Howlett, a former journalist and aide to Gov. Jon S. Corzine who now leads a research group, New Jersey Policy Perspective, said the pension deficit became ''like the closet that's overstuffed, and everybody knows it but nobody wants to open it and get hit by what falls out.''
Christine Todd Whitman became governor in 1994, and to balance out her deep tax cuts, she reduced the payments to the state's pension funds. That contributed to the growth of the unfunded liability.
In 1997, Ms. Whitman, a Republican, had the state borrow $2.75 billion to deposit in the pension funds, to address the liability and keep annual payments low. That infusion, plus the run-up in the stock market, gave the funds a surplus for a few years. But it also helped entrench the habit of paying little or nothing into the system from the state budget, and Ms. Whitman and her successors consistently paid a fraction of what was recommended.
From mid-1999 to mid-2006, the state contributed an average of about $23 million a year; keeping up with the formulas would have required more than $600 million a year.
In 2001, Gov. Donald DiFrancesco, a Republican, and the Republican-controlled Legislature raised pension benefits 9 percent and lowered the retirement age to 55, greatly increasing the future burden on the system. This came even as the stock market -- and the value of the pension funds -- was falling.
In 2002, James McGreevey, a Democrat, became governor and Democrats took control of the Legislature. As the pension surplus disappeared and state spending shot up, the imbalance between required and actual pension contributions continued.
Mr. Corzine, also a Democrat, presided over the first significant contributions to the system in a decade, almost $2.2 billion over two years, but even that fell far short of what the state was supposed to pay. He also increased the retirement age and curbed benefits, but the unfunded liability continued to grow. And in 2008, with the recession battering state finances, Mr. Corzine cut back on paying into the system.
This year, Mr. Christie signed legislation that will curb benefits for new employees, but the effects of that will not be seen for many years.
''There's finally an admission in both parties that there's a crisis,'' Dr. Hughes, of Rutgers, said. ''But we've dug ourselves such a deep hole over so many years that I don't see a way out of it.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Pension Juggling: New Jersey failed year after year to put enough money into the funds that will pay pensions for public employees, including teachers. (Source: N.J. Division of Pensions and Benefits) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BONDS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



483 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Newsom Steps Away From Limelight on Same-Sex Marriage

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH. 
gshih@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
On the night of Aug. 4, after a federal district judge struck down Proposition 8, California's ban on same-sex marriage, a gaggle of San Francisco politicians worked their way up the City Hall steps to rally the jubilant crowd of 800 that was roaring its approval for the landmark ruling.
The lineup of speakers read like a who's who of city officials with political ambitions -- from Supervisor Bevan Dufty, the openly gay candidate for mayor, to Dennis J. Herrera, the city attorney and one of Mr. Dufty's likely opponents, to Kamala D. Harris, the Democratic nominee for attorney general.
Conspicuously absent was Mayor Gavin Newsom, whose 2004 decision to distribute marriage licenses to same-sex couples, in defiance of state law, made him a local hero even as it sparked a fierce national debate. 
Mr. Newsom, who is now running for lieutenant governor in the November election, missed the public celebrations, his aides explained, because of a scheduled campaign event in Los Angeles. But his absence that night encapsulated what has been a subtle shift by Mr. Newsom in recent weeks, as he has adopted a lower profile on the issue that has defined his political career. (On Monday, a federal appeals court extended an emergency stay on same-sex marriages, and all parties expect the issue to go to the United States Supreme Court.)
Mr. Newsom's change in approach partly reflects a rapid shift in public sentiment on the matter: though voters narrowly approved the marriage ban in 2008, opinion polls show that it is a waning issue for many voters, and neither party expects its candidate to have to stake an overt position in this year's election.
A poll conducted in March by the Public Policy Institute of California shows that, for the first time, at least half of Californians say they support same-sex marriage.
''The Republicans read the same polls we do,'' said Rick Jacobs, the founder of the Courage Campaign, a grassroots organization that pushed for the lawsuit challenging Proposition 8. ''While this was used handily by the right wing in 2004 as a wedge issue, there's no intensity for it now.''
Mr. Newsom acknowledged in an interview on Wednesday that he had made a choice to be less outspoken on same-sex marriage compared with past years. He said his new tone reflected how the debate had matured and was not a sign that he had changed his commitment to the issue.
''This movement has nothing to do with me; I'm just a small part of it,'' Mr. Newsom said. ''This thing is at a completely different level now. What we needed to do in 2004 was to put a human face on it, and I think we achieved that goal. Now let's take the politics and the politicians out of it.''
Mr. Newsom's new strategy also appears to reflect a political calculation as he seeks statewide office for the first time. In the San Joaquin Valley and Southern California, large pockets of the electorate remain hostile to same-sex marriage. Even if his Republican opponent, Lt. Gov. Abel Maldonado, does not explicitly make an issue of it, there are signs that it will play an indirect part in the campaign as Mr. Maldonado seeks to portray Mr. Newsom as an out-of-touch San Francisco liberal.
''He's in a position where his rhetoric has to match the political reality of seeking statewide office,'' said Joseph S. Tuman, a professor of political and legal communications at San Francisco State University who is also a Democratic candidate for mayor in Oakland. ''Of course he's grown wiser about that.''
Even as Mr. Newsom rode the marriage issue to national prominence -- defying Democratic Party leaders like Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts and Senator Dianne Feinstein, who argued that pushing for same-sex marriage legalization was ''too much, too fast, too soon'' -- he got a taste of the dangers inherent in playing a lead role on such a volatile issue.
In 2004, after Mr. Newsom began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples, some Democratic Party elders blamed him for riling the conservative base and contributing to the failure of Senator John Kerry's presidential campaign.
Then, in 2008, after the California Supreme Court overturned a 2000 ban on same-sex marriage, an emotional Mr. Newsom boasted that gay marriage was coming, ''whether you like it or not.'' It was a moment that Proposition 8 supporters packaged into a TV ad that ran across the state before the measure was passed.
That outburst continues to haunt him.
''The mayor has repeatedly shown his 'whether you like it or not' mentality in his disregard for the will of the voters,'' said Brooke Armour, a spokeswoman for Mr. Maldonado. ''That's a governing style that's very dangerous and very extreme in California.''
Referring to his 2008 blunder, Mr. Newsom said Wednesday: ''That was not my best moment. I make mistakes; I just try not to repeat them.''
At the time, Mr. Newsom also came under fire from same-sex marriage advocates who believed that the TV ad had damaged their cause and that the mayor had become a liability.
The bitter 2008 Proposition 8 battle made Mr. Newsom cautious. ''I don't want to repeat that in a way that can be damaging to the movement in the future,'' he said. ''We're not doing 1,000-people rallies right now. It's a totally different phase. This is much more deliberative.''
Mr. Newsom's change in tone signals that the marriage issue will be one of the most unpredictable elements in the remaining months of the campaign, with both Republicans and Democrats saying that the economy, unemployment and the environment will dominate the discourse.
But even as Mr. Newsom takes a less public stance on marriage, supporters are split on his handling of it: some believe that the mayor's Democratic base will understand that he remains committed to the cause, while others question his change in approach.
''I cannot think of a single person who does not know the key role that the mayor has played,'' said Mr. Jacobs of the Courage Campaign.
Former Mayor Willie L. Brown Jr. of San Francisco said the mayor was ''just as enthusiastic as ever.''
Others, however, say it may be a mistake for the Newsom camp to play down his support for same-sex marriage, which has been his signature issue.
Chris Lehane, a San Francisco political consultant who is a veteran of the Clinton White House and Al Gore's 2000 presidential campaign, said that in retrospect it had been a ''major mistake'' not having Mr. Gore discuss the environment heavily. The Newsom campaign, he said, has an opportunity to frame its candidate as someone with courage.
''From Day 1 in 2004, he stepped out on the issue,'' Mr. Lehane said. ''He now has an indelible courage brand, which every politician is striving to get.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco, shown Aug. 9, has become less visible on the issue of same-sex marriage as he runs for lieutenant governor. The issue of such unions, like that of John Lewis and Stuart Gaffney in June 2008, has not played a major part in the campaign so far. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES
 DARRYL BUSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); MARRIAGE (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITIES (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); APPEALS COURTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%)

PERSON: JOHN LEWIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



484 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Program Offers Support for Victims of Domestic Violence, but It Is Challenging

BYLINE: By JESSICA REAVES

 BODY:
For any first-time visitor, Cook County's Domestic Violence Courthouse -- with its unmarked hallways and frequently abandoned information desk -- presents a navigational challenge. For an abuse victim, who may be terrified and injured, the blank walls and empty corridors are just the first bewildering step in a long, convoluted and impersonal process.
Many who seek protection from an abuser come to this West Loop building and muddle through alone, but a few are assigned court advocates -- largely by luck of the draw -- who translate legal jargon and literally stand up for victims during court proceedings. Now, as Springfield's budget cuts threaten human services statewide, those advocacy programs are at risk. 
''Can you imagine, if you were in trauma, trying to figure this out?'' said Therasa Zito, who manages the Domestic Violence Court Advocacy Program of the Jane Addams Hull House Association. ''It's totally overwhelming.''
Ms. Zito was talking about the crowded room on the first floor of the courthouse where victims file their first round of paperwork, but her words could just as easily describe the maze of domestic-violence law and the legal system in place to deal with such issues.
In 2009, there were 18,248 reports of domestic violence filed in Cook County, down slightly from 2008, according to the county clerk's office. Those numbers represent a fraction of actual cases, because most victims do not report abuse. For those who do seek legal help, advocates can make the process more bearable.
When Danena Sanders, 21, arrived at the courthouse in May with her broken jaw wired shut, an advocate helped her fill out a form for an order of protection, told her what to expect during court and helped her learn to eat through a straw. Advocates' other duties might include speaking with lawyers or judges who can seem intimidating, or finding a client a new home or a child-friendly shelter.
''She made things much easier,'' Ms. Sanders said. ''The situation is still there, and you have to get through it. But someone's there, paying attention and taking notes.''
As Ms. Sanders talked about her ordeal, her voice broke. ''Going through it, you're confused and scared,'' she said.
She said there were girls younger than her who were walking into the courthouse alone. ''What are they supposed to do?'' she asked.
Ms. Sanders's advocate, Sue, said: ''A lot of people we work with are on the verge of giving up. Without us, they might do just that.'' (Hull House requested that advocates be identified only by their first names in the news media.)
The Hull House advocacy program was founded in 1984, the first of its kind in the Chicago area. Independent of the court system and financed by five grants, the largest of which is from the Illinois Department of Human Services, the program currently employs seven advocates, down from nine a few years ago.
Those advocates are able to work with only about 1 percent of cases, said Ms. Zito, who manages the court advocacy program. In 2009, the group served 1,487 clients on a budget of $450,000. Ms. Zito said the financing had not kept up with inflation or day-to-day costs.
Terri Johnson, vice president of public policy and advocacy at Hull House, is keeping a wary eye on state budget cuts. ''Domestic violence funding is very vulnerable,'' Ms. Johnson said. ''We're not sure how this is going to shake out.''
While every victim's story is different, an advocate's goal is almost always the same. ''At the very least,'' Ms. Zito said, ''we want clients to walk out of here with an order of protection.''
Having the order on file, she said, will help them next time. ''And, unfortunately,'' she added, ''there is almost always a next time.''
Orders of protection establish a Maginot Line against abusers: They sound daunting, but they are easy to circumvent. So advocates also give their clients grimly sensible advice like ''keep a full tank of gas in your car'' and ''have a bag packed with essentials.''
The long-term fate of the advocacy program rests in the state legislature. In the meantime, ''we're just going to ride it until the wheels fall off,'' Ms. Zito said. ''I know our staff does good work. And it's hard work.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (95%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); FAMILY COURTS (78%); FACIAL INJURIES (72%); BONE FRACTURES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



485 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Meeting the Man Who Made Him the (Mistaken) Messiah

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco. sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Scott James is a columnist for The Bay Citizen.
Raj Patel has met his maker, so to speak.
Mr. Patel, a San Francisco author and economist, woke up one day earlier this year to discover that he had unwillingly been declared the messiah by followers of the New Age group Share International, founded by Benjamin Creme, a London mystic. It was a revelation that made Mr. Patel the focus of unwanted attention by thousands of worshipers and thrust him into a surreal international news media frenzy.
Last week Mr. Creme visited the Bay Area, and the two men met for the first time, over cookies in a private home in Berkeley, a possible finale in the timely tale of a mortal mistaken for a god. 
After the meeting, both men have decided to call the events of the past several months ''a case of mistaken identity.'' They seemed impressed with each other, with Mr. Creme saying he found Mr. Patel quite intelligent and charming.
Mr. Patel had a different impression of Mr. Creme: ''Bonkers.''
In January, devotees of Mr. Creme's decades-old prophesies concluded -- based on a series of clues and unverified information on the Internet -- that Mr. Patel was the earthly manifestation of Maitreya, The World Teacher.
Mr. Creme, who said he received telepathic messages from the immortal Maitreya to share with followers, did not endorse the claim. But he did not forcefully deny it either. The story first appeared in this column, then London tabloids devoured the tale mercilessly, and Stephen Colbert, the comedian, devoted an entire segment of his ''Colbert Report'' on Comedy Central to ridiculing the deification.
Although Mr. Creme has finally released Mr. Patel from his divine burden, it doesn't mean that he has given up on the idea of a messiah for these troubling times. In fact, his meeting with Mr. Patel was just part of an extended visit to the Bay Area to recruit new believers.
A crowd of more than 600 gathered at San Francisco's Palace of Fine Arts on a recent Sunday afternoon to hear Mr. Creme. Looking his 87 years, he was gently assisted to center stage and then sat stoically as an audio recording played his voice, in a slow Boris Karloff cadence, purportedly channeling the words of Maitreya. ''My plan is to show you that the way out of your problems is to listen again to the true voice of god within your hearts, to share,'' he said.
When the recording ended, Mr. Creme spoke about the various crises in the world, including the growing imbalance between rich and poor that he ascribed to ''an outmoded way of living'' -- a message that seemed to resonate with the mostly white crowd, some of whom had arrived in Mercedeses and BMWs.
Mr. Creme went on to explain that invisible ''brothers'' from other inhabited planets in our solar system had been on Earth to help mankind escape its problems and usher in a new age.
J. Gordon Melton, a religious scholar who has studied Share International and Mr. Creme since the 1970s, described the group as ''small and harmless.''
The group's messianic message -- that a compassionate savior will come and teach the world better ways -- ''in hard economic times and war has an appeal,'' Mr. Melton said. But, he added, non-Christian messiahs tend to face fierce opposition in the United States.
That became clear at Mr. Creme's appearance when a man in the audience disrupted the event by pointing and shouting, ''Don't believe these lies! This man is the devil!''
Mr. Creme said later that he had faced such acrimony in the past, although it was rare. He said he had brought his message to San Francisco more than 30 times and generally felt welcomed.
During his Bay Area visit, Mr. Creme was asked about the news of the day, a federal court ruling in favor of same-sex marriage in California. Was this a sign of the compassionate new age?
Mr. Creme explained that while he personally supported same-sex nuptials, Maitreya did not approve of gay and lesbian couples' raising children -- the new age promoted by Share International should not include same-sex parents.
In addition to the private meeting in Berkeley, Mr. Patel attended the Sunday lecture for three hours, and concluded that Mr. Creme was ''a sweet, pleasant old man'' who ultimately ''was like the Red Queen in Alice in Wonderland who said she could believe in six impossible things before breakfast.''
But Mr. Patel was inspired in one sense. As the author of best-selling books about big ideas -- the first two were about food and economics -- he is now considering writing about the whole notion of saviors.
He will certainly have a unique perspective.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Raj Patel 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%)

PERSON: STEPHEN COLBERT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



486 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (ABC) 20/20 By all accounts, Melissa Moore (above left with Juju Chang) was adored by her father, Keith Hunter Jesperson. What she didn't learn until years later was that he was a murderer known as the Happy Face Killer, named for the smiley face with which he signed letters to newspapers about his five-year string of killings: eight women in five states. Ms. Chang interviews Ms. Moore, the author of ''Shattered Silence: The Untold Story of a Serial Killer's Daughter,'' about her discovery at 15 of Mr. Jesperson's crimes, her attempt to keep them a secret for 15 more years, her fears of having children and how she has lived with what her father did. Ms. Moore returns to an area in Washington State where she lived as a child, near a place where her father killed. In a telephone interview from the Oregon State Penitentiary in Salem, where he is serving three consecutive life sentences, Mr. Jesperson recounts the details of his killings. 
8:30 P.M. (13, 49) NEED TO KNOW Juan Cole, a Middle East scholar and professor of history at the University of Michigan, talks with Alison Stewart about the drawdown of American forces in Iraq and the prospects for peace. Jon Meacham takes viewers on a historical walking tour of Lower Manhattan and to the proposed site two blocks from ground zero of an Islamic center and mosque that has been criticized. Gary Shteyngart talks about his new book, ''Super Sad True Love Story,'' about a future America that has become an economic supplicant of China. Other segments look at the pros and cons of blood transfusions and the five things to know about seafood from the Gulf of Mexico.
9 P.M. (NBC) DATELINE NBC In a co-production with the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, Bob McKeown of the CBC investigates the death in 2008 of Nadia Kajouji, an Ottawa college student who was suffering from severe depression and took her own life, supposedly after encouragement from an online acquaintance with whom she had been corresponding. Mr. McKeown also interviews an Englishwoman intent on uncovering the identity of the acquaintance, who the police say was a man who sometimes described himself online as a young female nurse.
9 P.M. (Syfy) EUREKA Carter (Colin Ferguson) and Grant (James Callis) feud over Allison (Salli Richardson-Whitfield), Henry (Joe Morton) tries to seduce his wife, and Zoe (Jordan Hinson) grapples with a secret love. Meanwhile, something is turning the residents of Eureka into stone. In ''Haven,'' at 10, a mangled body starts a chain reaction that leads to a troubled soul who can harm people from a distance.
9 P.M. (Discovery) MAN, WOMAN, WILD The survivalist adventures of Mykel Hawke, a wilderness expert and former Green Beret, and his wife, Ruth England, a city girl and television journalist, turn deadly when Ms. England collapses from heat exhaustion and dehydration in a desert in Mexico. In the season finale of ''Dual Survival,'' at 10, Dave Canterbury, a former Army sniper and instructor for military Special Reaction Teams, and Cody Lundin, who teaches a course in wilderness living and has gone barefoot for 20 years, wade through the piranha-infested waters of the world's largest swamp wetland, the Pantanal in Brazil.
9 P.M. (TLC) SAY YES TO THE DRESS: ATLANTA It's decision time at Bridals by Lori in this spinoff of the series set at Kleinfeld Bridal in Manhattan, as two brides are torn between the dresses they want and the dresses others want them to have. At 9:30, a cancer survivor's friends pitch in when she discovers she can't afford her dream gown, while another bride undertakes a bait-and-switch after her friends refuse to support her choice of attire. And at 10, ''Left at the Altar'' looks at brides and grooms who found themselves standing alone on their wedding days.
9 P.M. (VH1) THE SHORT LIST A countdown of the 10 most awkward celebrity moments.
9 P.M. (Animal Planet) WHALE WARS In their first coordinated campaign, the crews of the Sea Shepherd boats devise new ways to harass the Japanese whalers.
9:30 P.M. (13) LIVE FROM THE ARTISTS DEN The soul powerhouse Booker T. Jones (right) joins forces with the rockers Drive-By Truckers and the singer Bettye LaVette at the Ogden Museum of Southern Art in New Orleans.
10 P.M. (BBC America) PERFECT PRIVATE PARTS Sex therapists, plastic surgeons and patients discuss why girls as young as 16 are requesting genital cosmetic surgery.
10 P.M. (Investigation Discovery) TWISTED How are criminal minds shaped? This new series explores the psychology of evildoers, starting with Jeffrey Dahmer, who raped, murdered and ate pieces of his 17 victims. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); HOMICIDE (77%); WRITERS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); SENTENCING (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); HISTORY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (65%); RELIGION (64%); SUICIDE (61%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (50%)

COMPANY: CANADIAN BROADCASTING CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SALEM, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (53%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (53%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); JORDAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



487 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
U.N. REPORT CRITICIZES
Israel's Gaza Restrictions
A United Nations report says 12 percent of Gaza's residents have lost livelihoods or have otherwise been affected by Israeli security policies along the border in recent years. These include the establishment of ''no-go zones'' and frequent incursions and attacks. PAGE A4
ROMA EXPELLED IN FRANCE 
French riot police officers swooped down on an encampment of Roma in La Courneuve, filling out expulsion orders. Many Roma have been caught up in a major push by the government of President Nicolas Sarkozy to crack down on crime and illegal immigration. PAGE A4
A LABOR PARTY'S STRUGGLE
Australia has not had a recession in nearly 20 years. But despite the relative strength of the country's economy, the governing Labor Party is facing a fight for survival in an unexpectedly tight election, dominated by concerns over immigration policy. PAGE A8
RUSSIA'S RELIEF FROM HEAT
For nearly two months, a heat wave has led to wildfires that scorched huge swaths of land in Russia. But now, temperatures have dropped to 70 degrees, with the Russian news media reporting that the next few days would bring still cooler weather. PAGE A9
National
U.S. FARMERS ARE WARY
Of Russia's Grain Woes
Russia's ban on grain exports, in response to a devastating drought, has sent prices shooting up all over the world. But as planting time approaches, farmers in America's breadbasket are leery of the recent rise, balancing the possibility of greater income against the failed promises of the past. PAGE A11
FINAL 'KILL' OF WELL DELAYED
The final sealing of BP's stricken well in the Gulf of Mexico will be delayed until after Labor Day, officials said, so that the company can replace equipment that contributed to the well's failure. PAGE A12
OIL MAY BE LENGTHY THREAT
New research casts doubt on recent statements by the federal government about the rate of dissipation of oil deep in the Gulf of Mexico, raising the possibility that the plume might pose a threat to wildlife for months or even years. PAGE A13
Moon Is Slowly Shrinking A15
New York
FOR THE SEVENTH MONTH,
City's Jobless Rate Dips
The unemployment rate in New York City declined to 9.4 percent in July, continuing a gradual but steady improvement as hiring rebounded faster locally than in the rest of the country. PAGE A17
Business
'QUANT' FUNDS STRUGGLE
To Revive Boom Times
They were revered as the brightest minds in finance, the quantitative investment managers who could outwit Wall Street with their Ph.D.'s and superfast computers. But after blundering through the financial panic, these so-called quants no longer look like geniuses, and some investors have fallen out of love with them. PAGE B1
Sports
STILL UNDERSIZED,
But No Longer Overlooked
Even after a scintillating rookie season with the Golden State Warriors, Stephen Curry was still largely an overlooked overachiever. But now, his diverse game has earned him a prominent role for USA Basketball, which is traveling to Turkey to attempt to win its first World Championship since 1994. PAGE B11
Weekend
THEY'RE SLEAZY,
But Not Originals
It is tempting to view ''Jersey Shore'' or any Kardashian sister as the knell of civilization's end. But actually, these kinds of series are an extension of a time-honored form of entertainment that reaches back to the era of landed gentry, debutantes and social seasons. PAGE C1
Obituaries
BILL MILLIN, 88
A Scottish bagpiper who played as his fellow commandos landed on a Normandy beach on D-Day, he lived to see his bravado immortalized in ''The Longest Day.'' PAGE B9
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); WEATHER (72%); AGRICULTURE (70%); FIRES (67%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (65%); US LABOR DAY (65%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); GULF OF MEXICO (90%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



488 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths NETREBA, SYDNEY S.

 BODY:
NETREBA--Sydney S.,passed away peacefully in Millbrae, CA on August 14, 2010 at the age of 91. Born in Pennsylvania on December 4, 1918, grew up in Brooklyn, NY. He graduated from Abraham Lincoln High School. He earned a B.S. from City College of NY in 1940. He served in the U.S. Army Air Corps and saw heavy battle in the South Pacific during WW II. After the war, he earned a doctorate in economics from Johns Hopkins University. During his long career in the financial field, he was a partner first at Kuhn, Loeb & Co. and then at Bear Stearns in New York and closed his professional career with Robert C. Brown & Co. in San Francisco. Together with his wife, Mildred Dubrow Netreba, who pre-deceased him in 2000, and daughter Laurie, who pre-deceased him in 1998, he was a long term resident of Atherton, CA. He is survived by many nieces, nephews, grand-nieces, and grand-nephews. Dearly loved by his many friends and former colleagues for his intellect, kindness quick wit and plethora of talents, he will be sorely missed. His memory will forever remain in our hearts. Funeral services are to be private. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); WORLD WAR II (76%); ARMIES (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%)

COMPANY: BROWN & CO SECURITIES CORP (56%); BROWN & CO PLC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: BRWN (CSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



489 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; TV SPORTS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: PGA Says Viewership Decline Shouldn't Be Costly in TV Talks

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sandor@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Drama is not always enough to sell viewers on golf. Sometimes these devotees seem to disappear into an Irish mist as if they were waiting for Tiger Woods to become Superman again.
Sunday's final round of the P.G.A. Championship -- won by Martin Kaymer over Bubba Watson in a playoff -- was exciting enough to imagine Woods and Phil Mickelson going one-on-one.
But the big names did not break the top 10 at Whistling Straits and 6.5 million viewers watched on CBS -- not bad, but a tumble from the 10.1 million who saw Y. E. Yang upset Woods with a comeback victory last year at Hazeltine. 
That 35 percent drop for the final round came on the heels of a 53 percent drop in viewership on ESPN for the fourth round of last month's British Open. Only 2.6 million watched the victory by Louis Oosthuizen, who has a limited profile in the United States, compared with 5.5 million for Stewart Cink's playoff victory over Tom Watson the year before on ABC.
Woods is always central to the state of golf. Will he recover his form in time for the PGA Tour to negotiate its new network TV contracts late next year? There are few big audiences without Eldrick the Magnificent.
''When Tiger plays or is in contention, he spikes ratings off a very healthy base,'' said Ty Votaw, the PGA Tour's executive vice president of communications. ''When the No. 1, most-recognized athlete isn't playing, there's a falloff, but it doesn't mean the falloff translates into a proportional drop in the value we deliver to our partners.''
Votaw contends, not surprisingly, that slumping viewership is not as big a problem as some believe and should not cause the PGA Tour a big drop in revenue in its renewal talks with NBC and CBS.
The Golf Channel's 15-year deal with the PGA Tour for its cable rights ends in 2021.
''No other sports delivers more advertising to its network partners than the PGA Tour does, other than the N.F.L.,'' said Votaw, who estimated that 65 to 75 percent of network golf advertising revenue comes from the PGA Tour's sponsors and marketing partners. ''That helps insulate our partners from the vagaries of the ad market,'' he said.
Those recession-induced vagaries have cut ad revenue from golf on network TV from $621.6 million in 2008 to $557.9 million last year, said Kantar Media, a research firm. For the first three months of this year, the revenue fell from $125.2 million to $116.9 million. Most of the revenue is from PGA Tour events and the men's majors.
Neal Pilson, a sports industry consultant, said that while networks will look at ratings when calculating what they will pay in their next contacts, they will look even closer at ad revenue. If it is falling with a forecast of further decreases, they aren't likely to pay more. He added that revenue that was not derived from the PGA Tour's sponsors was sold to advertisers based on ratings. ''It's a lot easier to sell a five rating than a two rating,'' he said.
He said that the PGA Tour and the networks would continue to benefit from a core of wealthy, well-educated ''somewhat older'' men who faithfully watch the tournaments and buy golf equipment. ''A part of the ratings decline is the casual audience that came to watch Tiger and didn't buy golf equipment anyway,'' he said.
No sport likes to see its viewers leave even if their departure is temporary.
According to Nielsen, final-round viewership this season through Aug. 1 is down 16 percent.
Overall broadcast network viewership for golf peaked at 4.7 million in 2001, and was 3.6 million last year.
Votaw insisted that the tour's sponsors were far more concerned with the cumulative audience that builds over a tournament, not the ''snapshot'' developed from averaging viewership over several hours on a Sunday.
By that measure, he said, the PGA Tour's overall golf audience was down by 3 percent this year.
In this peculiar season, which is without a single Woods victory, various little-known golfers and first-time winners have enriched the sport. But they have not generally fattened the TV audiences.
At the Wells Fargo Championship, Rory McIlroy's win drew an average of 3.2 million viewers to the final round, 42 percent fewer than Sean O'Hair did in 2009. Justin Rose's triumph at the Memorial was seen by 3.9 million Sunday viewers, 800,000 fewer than the audience for Woods's win a year earlier. Rose's subsequent win at the AT&T National generated 2.6 million final-round viewers, fewer than half of what Woods attracted the year before.
But Graeme McDowell won the United States Open in front of 9.3 million final-round viewers, helped by some of the tournament being shown in prime time. A year earlier, 4.8 million watched at rain-soaked Bethpage on NBC, but the fourth round did not conclude until Monday morning, with Lucas Glover winning.
''We seem to be getting unknown players winning every week,'' said Pilson, a former president of CBS Sports. ''What would help is if one or several of those players emerged as consistent competitors and winners.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (85%); SPONSORSHIP (79%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (90%); PHIL MICKELSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010



490 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: For Israelis, New Hopes On Energy

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER; Nada Bakri contributed reporting from Beirut, Lebanon.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- For decades, Israelis have taken perverse pride in what they lacked -- oil and gas deposits. Few countries had looked so hard with so little result. Obliged to live off their wits, Israelis turned their country into a high-tech haven.
But enormous deposits of natural gas have been detected off the country's northern coast. Last year, the United States Geological Survey estimated that more than 120 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas reserves lie beneath the waters of the Eastern Mediterranean, most of it within Israeli territory. Several months after the report, another field of 8.7 trillion cubic feet was found off Israel and a second, twice that size, was detected and is thought to have a 50 percent chance of proving out.
Christopher Schenk, a geologist who led the Geological Survey's study, said in a telephone interview that there was little doubt of the area's enormous gas potential. Israel's energy needs will easily be filled for the next generation by the gas, and the country could well become an energy exporter. Energy companies have been helping drive the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange into a swirl of anticipation, and the talk has grown heady. 
''This is a huge deal that could change the geo-strategy of the region and Israel's resources for years to come,'' commented Einat Wilf, a member of Parliament who serves on the foreign affairs and defense committee.
The gas fields went undeveloped all this time in part because the big Western oil companies did not want to offend the major Arab producers by working with Israel. And their size is still modest in comparison to, say, those in Iran, with more than a quadrillion cubic feet of proven reserves, and even those in the United States, with nearly 250 trillion cubic feet of proven reserves.
But they are bringing with them a series of keen challenges, including heightened tensions with Lebanon over the boundaries of the gas fields, fears of rocket attacks, a citizens' revolt over the location of processing plants, an ugly battle over government royalties, and concerns that Israel could blow its windfall and turn into a nation of single-resource slackers.
''Everyone is dreaming about a golden calf,'' lamented Brenda Shaffer, an energy policy specialist who teaches political science at the University of Haifa. ''We should be thinking about reducing pollution, establishing energy security and reordering our priorities. Our coalition system leads to a very politicized allocation of money. Unfortunately, more money won't mean it will be spent differently.''
The costs and potential profits of the gas discoveries are a matter of speculation. The new fields are in theory worth tens of billions of dollars. But Israel uses more coal than gas for its electricity now, and shifting the balance toward gas will involve tough political fights with industry lobbies and trade unions.
The tensions with Lebanon -- Israel's neighbor to the north with which it remains technically at war -- stem from Lebanon's hope that some of the gas falls in its waters as well the patina of mistrust that hovers over the relationship.
Worried by Israel's plans, the Lebanese Parliament this week passed a law to auction undersea energy exploration rights in 2012 and to draw its own maritime borders.
''Lebanon fears that Israel, based on its history of occupying our lands and stealing our water, will drill in Lebanon's waters and steal its natural resources,'' Ali Hamdan, an aide to the Parliament speaker, Nabih Berri, said in a telephone interview. ''Lebanon strongly warns Israel from drilling its natural gas. It will not tolerate violations of its sovereignty.''
Israeli authorities say the fields lie within their own economic territory as defined by international maritime law. Infrastructure Minister Uzi Landau said in June that if Lebanon tried to interfere with Israeli drilling, his country would not hesitate to use force.
An American official involved in the issue said the Israel-Lebanon land border had not been fully drawn and until it was, the maritime border would remain in potential dispute. A mile one way or the other on the land border could make a big difference in drilling rights.
But the tension with Lebanon is not limited to the border contours. There is also a deep concern here that the Lebanese militia group Hezbollah, which opposes Israel's existence and gets money and weapons from Iran, could shoot missiles at a processing plant, causing enormous damage. Israel and Hezbollah fought a monthlong war in 2006, and Hezbollah is thought to have tens of thousands of new missiles.
Israel may therefore install antimissile systems like Iron Dome, still in development, on sea platforms and around any plants. That is one of the reasons that system's development has been pursued so vigorously.
Residents of the northern coast of Israel, after months of protests over environmental and security risks, have delayed the building of a plant. For now, gas taken from the new fields will be piped down to the southern city of Ashdod.
For the past few years, Israel has bought gas piped from Egypt as well as Israeli gas from the seabed off Ashdod. The latter field is being mined in a joint venture by Texas-based Noble Energy and Delek Energy of Israel. That source is expected to run dry in 2012, which is when one of the large northern fields, Tamar, is expected to come on line. The field that was detected later, dubbed Leviathan, which still needs to be drill tested, is in the same area and, if confirmed, would begin to yield gas around 2015.
If Israel could replace most of its coal-based electricity with gas in the coming years, that would lead to cleaner air and the potential for development of things like gas-powered public transportation and electric cars.
One of the most emotional fights related to the gas find concerns royalties and taxes the government ought to be taking. Israel's energy royalty laws date from 1952 and some economists here say they bring in a lower percentage of revenue than similar laws do in most other countries, including the United States and Canada. Others dispute this. A government appointed committee is considering recommending a tax increase on the drilling and distribution, a move the energy companies say would amount to an illegal, retroactive step.
Opponents of a tax increase have mounted a campaign saying it would drive the price of gas so high that the electrical company would buy Egyptian over Israeli gas and companies like Noble would suffer and leave.
The campaign is led by a group called The Land of Israel Forum, which has declined to identify the source of its money.
Professor Shaffer of the University of Haifa said that the gas find, if handled right, could make a real difference for Israel's economy. But the idea that it would alter the country's international position or diplomatic standing may be overblown.
''Qatar is the largest exporter of liquefied natural gas in the world and it has not turned into a major power,'' Professor Shaffer noted. ''Having oil and gas doesn't solve your problems.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Tamar natural gas field off the coast of northern Israel is expected to begin yielding gas for Israel's use in late 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DELEK ENERGY) (A6) MAP: Lebanon may claim parts of the fields Israel hopes to tap. (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); POLITICS (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%) ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



491 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: A Mountain in the Stream

 BODY:
It is now possible to imagine the beginning of the end of a ruinous form of mining called ''mountaintop removal.'' Local opposition is growing, and the Environmental Protection Agency is tightening rules and threatening to veto one of the largest projects ever proposed. 
Enormous harm has already been inflicted on Appalachia's environment, most acutely in West Virginia. Mountaintop mining involves blasting the tops off mountains to expose subsurface coal seams. The coal is trucked away, but the debris is dumped over the side into the valleys, forests and streams below. As many as 2,000 miles of clear-running streams have been poisoned or buried in this fashion.
The dumping is a clear violation of the Clean Water Act. Regulators during the administration of President George W. Bush willfully looked the other way. The Obama administration is trying to turn things around. First it agreed to review about 80 existing permits. Then it raised the bar for new permits -- tightening stream protections and promising a case-by-case analysis of new projects instead of the blanket approvals granted before.
Most important, in June, the E.P.A. and the Army Corps of Engineers announced that before granting any new permits they would insist on a robust scientific analysis of a proposed mine's downstream impact on fish, salamanders and other aquatic life. If the agencies remain true to their word, this new guidance -- required under the Clean Water Act, but ignored for years -- could make mountaintop mining all but impossible.
The administration's resolve will soon be tested. As part of its review of existing permits, the E.P.A. has said it is considering vetoing the 2,278-acre Spruce mine in Blair, W.Va. The project was approved in 2007, and limited construction has begun, but the agency said it would irrevocably damage streams and wildlife. It promised a final decision later this year.
Some local residents say a veto would doom West Virginia's economy; others think it would save the state from environmental ruin. The E.P.A. should veto.
For their part, instead of preaching financial ruin, the coal companies need to develop ways to mine this coal without blasting the tops off mountains and fouling the waters below. If they can't or won't, the practice must be shut down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); SURFACE MINING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); COAL MINING (89%); VETO (89%); ENGINEERING (77%); APPROVALS (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); COAL INDUSTRY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); WATER QUALITY (67%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); ARMIES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



492 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Some Help for Pakistan

 BODY:
Pakistan needs more help now and will need much more in the weeks and months ahead. This week the world -- finally -- began waking up to the devastation wrought by monsoon flooding that has already affected 20 million people. 
The United States and the United Nations deserve credit for raising the alarm and twisting arms. At a special General Assembly session Thursday, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton pledged to increase American aid by $60 million, to $150 million, and she pressed other nations to do their share. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon announced that donors had so far contributed $230 million, or about 60 percent of the United Nations' appeal for disaster relief -- up from less than 50 percent a few days earlier.
The rest needs to be sent, swiftly. The European Union has increased its pledge to about $90 million, but needs to do more. So do Islamic nations. Saudi Arabia has pledged more than $110 million, mostly in donated goods, and Sudan and the Qatar Red Crescent are airlifting relief supplies. But other countries are writing meager checks. Given the disaster's scale, the $10 million from Kuwait and the $5 million promised Friday by the United Arab Emirates hardly even qualify as symbolic.
China, Pakistan's longtime ally and the world's second-largest economy, has pledged about $9 million in supplies and cash, a pittance. Pakistan's longtime rival India -- $5 million -- needs to fully step up, too, and Pakistan needs to accept India's help.
There is no time to waste: The floodwaters are moving and the monsoon season will not end for weeks.
In 20 percent of Pakistan, the very web of society -- people, homes, crops, livestock, roads, bridges -- has been swept away. When the immediate crisis ebbs, all that will remain will be hunger, stagnant water, disease and the threat of chaos, which extremist groups will gladly exploit.
One group of especially vulnerable survivors is Afghan refugees; more than 1.5 million were driven across the border by the war into now flood-stricken areas. The Pakistani government must give them the same support and protection as Pakistani citizens.
Depending on what happens, this disaster could strengthen or severely weaken Pakistan's dangerously weak civilian government. It could also improve this country's standing among Pakistanis or make them even more skeptical or hostile. We are not sure which way this will go. We are sure that nothing good will happen -- for Pakistan's people or for the fight against extremists -- unless the world rallies to Pakistan's aid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISASTER RELIEF (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); REFUGEES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); RELIGION (53%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); BAN KI-MOON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



493 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Birth Control Doesn't Have to Mean the Pill

BYLINE: By MICHELLE ANDREWS

 BODY:
THERE was a time when Becky Thurmond Fowler neglected to take her birth control pills for days on end. But she didn't worry, because she and her husband, Dan, wanted to have a child at some point. ''It wouldn't have been the end of the world if I got pregnant,'' she said.
That attitude changed after Ms. Fowler had a daughter, Emerson, now 2 1/2. But with a new baby demanding all her attention, Ms. Fowler, now 33, found herself becoming even more forgetful about taking the pills. Soon she began to worry about the possibility of an unexpected pregnancy: ''We were just rolling the dice.''
Many women struggle to find a birth control strategy that is effective given their particular circumstances. About half of all pregnancies -- three million annually -- are unintended. About half of the women who have an unplanned pregnancy are using birth control at the time, according to a 2009 study by the Guttmacher Institute. 
The pill, which celebrates its 50th anniversary this year, is by far the most popular contraceptive choice among women. When used consistently, it is more than 90 percent effective. The problem, as countless women have found, is that it is easy to forget to take the daily dose.
''Women, and men, just can't take a daily pill,'' said James Trussell, director of the Office of Population Research at Princeton.
Women choose a form of contraception for any number of reasons: reliability, convenience, familiarity. While the pill is the most frequent choice, it is not always the most appropriate. Pills are relatively inexpensive month-to-month, but a method with heftier upfront costs may be a better buy in the long run.
''An unplanned pregnancy is emotionally and financially expensive,'' said Dr. Steven J. Sondheimer, a professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Pennsylvania who directs its family planning program.
Ms. Fowler, a technology security analyst at the University of Missouri, decided to try something more suited to her life and kinder to her pocketbook: a small, T-shaped intrauterine device, or I.U.D., that slowly releases the hormone progestin, which prevents pregnancy in part by altering the uterine lining. Ms. Fowler paid $100 in outpatient surgery charges for the insertion; her insurance covered the roughly $700 cost of the device.
Even if she had had to pay the full cost herself, the I.U.D. -- which prevents pregnancy for five years -- would still be more cost-effective than birth control pills, which typically cost $15 to $50 a month. And of course there is no forgetting with an I.U.D.
For women who realize the time has come to re-evaluate their birth control strategy, there are many methods to choose from: I.U.D.'s, hormonal implants, shots, the ''patch'' and the vaginal ring, to name a few. Here are some factors to consider.
LONG-TERM OPTIONS If you have a hectic job or small children, or are caring for elderly parents, the pill may not be the best method for you, said Dr. Vanessa Cullins, vice president for medical affairs for the Planned Parenthood Federation of America.
The I.U.D. is the gold standard for the attention-challenged, Dr. Cullins said, as it remains effective for up to 12 years. On a dollar-for-dollar basis, it is also clearly the most cost-effective method, unless you plan to stop birth control altogether in the near future.
Similar options include hormonal methods like the Ortho Evra Patch, which is replaced once a week; the NuvaRing vaginal ring, which remains in place for three weeks; the Depo-Provera shot, which contains pregnancy-preventing hormones effective for three months; and Implanon hormonal implants.
Planned Parenthood offers an interactive tool on its Web site that helps women sort through the expanding array of contraceptive options:
INSURANCE COVERAGE While most insurance plans include contraceptive services and supplies, they may not cover all possibilities.
Twenty-seven states require health insurance plans that cover prescription drugs to cover the full range of Food and Drug Administration-approved contraceptive methods, according to the Guttmacher Institute. The plans may not, however, cover every type of device or drug, experts caution. Some plans cover only generic birth control pills, for example, not brand-name pills.
Since coverage varies widely, you will need to inquire about specific options you are considering. Your policy may cover the doctor's visit, for instance, for a Depo-Provera shot or to insert Implanon hormonal implants and I.U.D.'s -- but not the shot or the device itself.
More than half of America's employees work for companies with self-financed plans, which pay employees' health claims directly. Those plans are not bound by the state coverage requirements. Small-business and individual policies also tend to provide less comprehensive contraceptive coverage, experts note.
Whatever the type of plan, co-payments and co-insurance charges can be steep, sometimes discouraging women from picking the method that best suits them.
High-deductible plans can pose a particular challenge. They may not cover any birth control costs at all until patients meet a deductible of $1,000 or more.
Those out-of-pocket costs can be a serious barrier to women considering other options. A study of patients at Kaiser Permanente Northern California published in 2007 found that when co-payments totaling hundreds of dollars per patient were eliminated for longer-acting methods like I.U.D.'s and implants, their use increased sharply.
The new health care law may help women faced with high out-of-pocket costs. The law requires new health plans to provide certain preventive benefits with no cost-sharing, and family-planning advocates are pushing for birth control to be included among them. Federal regulations are expected within a year.
AN EXPERIENCED PROVIDER The options presented by your doctor may not include the best choices for you. Some physicians' practices are not very familiar with longer-acting, more expensive methods like I.U.D.'s, implants and shots, or do not stock them.
''If you're not getting requests for I.U.D.'s, it can be expensive to keep it on the shelves,'' said Adam Sonfield, a senior public policy associate at the Guttmacher Institute. ''For small practices, that can be a big deal.''
If your doctor has limited experience with the range of options, visit a larger practice or a family-planning clinic, where they are more likely to offer the full range of F.D.A.-approved products.
Family-planning clinics like Planned Parenthood are a good choice, too, particularly if you are unemployed or do not have insurance, as are state and county health departments and some university clinics, said Laura Hessburg, senior health policy adviser at the National Partnership for Women and Families. These facilities serve all comers, and fees are generally based on a sliding scale for limited-income women.
TRIAL AND ERROR Many women like the pill and other hormonal methods for reasons unrelated to preventing pregnancy: to regulate their periods, for example, or to reduce heavy menstrual flow.
While most women can use most F.D.A.-approved methods, experts say, it may take some trial and error to find a method that minimizes side effects.
For Whitney Hauser, 45, from Plymouth, Minn., birth control pills set off migraines. Switching to an I.U.D. three years ago solved the problem.
''I love it,'' she said. ''I don't have to think about it anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Becky Thurmond Fowler, with her daughter, Emerson. Busy with work and child care, she said she was often forgetting to take her birth control pills. ''We were just rolling the dice,'' she said. She now uses an I.U.D. (PHOTOGRAPH BY L.G. PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACEPTION (94%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); WOMEN (74%); FAMILY PLANNING (72%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (71%); STEROIDS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



494 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: As Private Tutoring Booms, Parents Look at the Returns

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
WITH only a few weeks left until school starts, the tutoring business is gearing up. And it is one industry in America that seems immune to recession. More parents are paying for tutors for their children.
Spending on tutors is growing at more than 5 percent a year, said Steve Pines, executive director of the Education Industry Association. This is down from yearly growth of 8 to 10 percent in 2007, when the education research firm EduVentures estimated the size of the tutoring industry at $5 billion to $7 billion a year. But it is still strong, given the state of most people's personal finances. And Sandi Ayaz, executive director of the National Tutoring Association, said the number of tutors her organization had certified had grown 18 percent in each of the last five years.
While tutors once focused on helping children who were falling behind in particular subjects or had a learning disability, they are now being used far more to guide students through particularly tough courses, insure their grades are equal to or above their peers' and, in the end, polish a child's college application. This costs parents a lot of money, and the question is, What returns should they expect for their investment? And how does that desire mesh with what is right? 
Before I go further, I want to address the question of fairness, which is ever-present in the world of high-priced tutors. The simple answer is that it is surely not fair that wealthy children can have private tutors when poor children cannot.
But many things in life are not fair, and I want to look at tutoring from an investment point of view. Is there any way to measure what parents and children are getting for all this money? What can a tutor reasonably be expected to do? Is this money well spent?
SHOPPING AROUND Even with the increase in the use of tutors, parents are not necessarily spending money the way they once did. Some are, of course, since money is still no object when it comes to their children. Yet even in Manhattan, where tutors are particularly popular, plenty of parents are shopping around for less expensive options.
''People have been pulling back for tutors charging $250 to $400 an hour,'' said Sandy Bass, editor and publisher of Private School Insider, an online newsletter. ''They're still using tutors, but they're searching around for more reasonably priced help. In Manhattan, $85 to $150 is the acceptable range for reasonably priced.''
Mr. Pines of the Education Industry Association said he had seen the same reassessment in the rest of the country, where the average rate was $45 to $65 an hour. Parents who once would have had in-home tutors are going to tutoring centers, while some using the centers have cut back on hours or moved to online-only platforms. He said a rising player in this field is TutorVista, an online education company based in Bangalore, India, that charges $99.99 a month for help on an Internet platform.
Where access to tutors appears to be drying up is for people with limited means. In the past, the issue was not whether they could afford it, but rather whether they could finance it. And Jeffrey Cohen, the president and chief executive of Sylvan Learning Centers, which operates one of the largest chains of tutoring franchises in the country, said the lack of financing had been a big blow to less wealthy families.
''Programs do exist, but they're hard to come by,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''Prerecession families with a decent credit score could get approved to finance these programs. They could put themselves on a multiyear monthly payment schedule.''
HELP OR HINDRANCE? Money can't buy you love, the song says, but what should it buy? The cardinal sin of tutoring is writing a student's college essay. This is the murkiest part of the industry. After all, the first line in the National Tutoring Association's ethics code is: ''I understand that my role as a tutor is to never do the student's work for him or her.''
Not surprisingly, people in the industry cringe when the issue is brought up, particularly with online tutoring. ''That's where the parent has to play a role of oversight,'' Mr. Pines said. ''It has to be monitored at home, and I can't let Mom and Dad off the hook for that.''
But the bigger question that springs from this is, How do you make sure the money you're spending is benefiting your child?
Helping children improve in areas where they are struggling is clearly important. But Ms. Bass said any tutoring should bolster standardized test scores. ''You're not going to go from a 550 to an 800 on the SAT, but you can count on a 100-point rise,'' she said. ''A lot of that is just getting a kid used to taking the test.''
This has reached its absurd extreme. Ms. Bass said most private schools in New York had started to discount the Early Childhood Admissions Assessment, more commonly called the E.R.B. after the Educational Records Bureau, the company that administers it, because parents hired tutors to coach their 4-year-olds on acing it.
While this is one way to spend your money, it may not be the best way to teach children the long-term skills they will need after they get into that top kindergarten. It may also hinder them more than help them.
''I always say be careful in doing this,'' said Lloyd Thacker, a former college admissions officer and the executive director of the Education Conservancy. ''Not only does it jeopardize your child's 'studenthood' -- those qualities that make learning happen -- but someone finding your way for you and packaging you in the process jeopardizes your ability to be yourself.''
In other words, hiring a tutor to help a child who is struggling in math is a good use of money. Hiring one so the child does not have to push himself is a bad one.
''In an ideal world, students should realize they can do it themselves,'' said Mr. Thacker, an admitted opponent of the hyper-tutoring culture. And many of them could, but would parents risk letting them try?
HARVARD OR BUST A financier I know who was educated at a trifecta of top institutions -- St. Paul's School, Yale and Columbia Law -- observed that wealthy parents today were paying for tutoring and private school as a forward contract on the Ivy League, with anything less being a disappointment.
This was a cynical take, for sure, but it stuck with me: what constitutes success after paying for thousands of hours of tutoring at $100-plus an hour? The argument for this extra attention as a means to create well-rounded students is not convincing, since private tutoring in college tends to be for remedial help.
School competition is clearly part of parents' thinking, but it's not just for college. ''Parents are concerned about how their children rank against their friends, their neighbors, kids in the next town over, the next state over, even the next country over,'' Mr. Cohen said.
On the positive side, for children, tutors can often comfort them and let them talk to someone beyond their parents. ''They can say what they want and that person will translate it to Mom and Dad,'' Ms. Bass said. ''That's what the kid needs because they're afraid of letting Mom and Dad down.''
This therapeutic value is one good use of the money, but so, too, is how it can make a child feel about school.
''The more qualitative measures of success are things like attitude, self-confidence and the willingness to finish homework,'' Mr. Pines said. ''Parents appreciate when kids can get their homework done without Mom hovering over them.''
It's not Harvard, but it could lead to happiness.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sandy Bass, editor and publisher of Private School Insider, a Web newsletter, says parents are searching for less expensive tutors for their children. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (73%); DISABLED PERSONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



495 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: After a Pension Fraud Case, Wondering Who's Up Next

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The federal government's crackdown on the State of New Jersey this week for misrepresenting the condition of its pension funds raises a question: Who else might have pension numbers that could draw regulatory fire?
Cities and states are scrambling to make sure their pension disclosures are in order, and investors in distressed debt -- who make money off financial trouble -- are scrambling too, sensing opportunity.
''No one knows exactly how to attack this market yet, but people are going to be watching the New Jersey case and others like it very closely from an investment point of view,'' said Jon Kibbe, a lawyer who specializes in distressed debt. Though some advisers are urging caution, New Jersey and other states have continued to issue new debt at reasonable rates as investors clamor for high-grade securities in a low-rate environment. 
Harry J. Wilson, a Republican candidate for New York State comptroller, said Friday that New York was not compliant with the standard that the Securities and Exchange Commission established in its cease-and-desist order against New Jersey. Dennis Tompkins, a spokesman for the current New York comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, who is running for re-election, said that ''it's ridiculous, it's wrong and it's reckless to make those accusations'' and added that the state's financial disclosures were complete and correct.
After two prominent S.E.C. pension cases, the American Bar Association's new disclosure bible for municipal bond lawyers is selling briskly.
''The cease-and-desist order has heightened awareness of the importance of accurate pension disclosure,'' said John M. McNally, a partner at the law firm Hawkins Delafield & Wood, and the project coordinator of the newest edition of ''Disclosure Roles of Counsel,'' a treatise telling municipal bond lawyers what is expected of their clients.
Mr. McNally has also been serving as a special disclosure counsel to San Diego, the first government accused of securities fraud by the S.E.C. for faulty pension disclosures. New Jersey was the first state.
The S.E.C. and other regulators found that San Diego had numerous pension problems, but in general, regulators said its government did not adequately describe the size of its obligations to retirees. In addition, there were discrepancies between the pension numbers in the official statement distributed to bond buyers and the pension numbers in other documents.
Mr. McNally said it was important to give consistent information and to explain the status of the pension fund's condition in plain English. ''One of the critical disclosure points would be, what are the implications for an entity's annual budget,'' he said.
Instead of bristling with acronyms, he said, pension documents should tell an investor how much the government must put in the pension fund every year and whether it can afford the payments. At the moment, the municipal bond market's players -- advisers, investors and underwriters -- are more concerned about Illinois than any other state. Its credit was downgraded this year, and all the main ratings agencies said the poor condition of its public pension funds was a primary factor.
A spokeswoman for Gov. Pat Quinn's Office of Management and Budget, Kelly Kraft, said Illinois believed its pension disclosures were complete and accurate. The state has not hidden the fact that its pension funds have big shortfalls, she said, and there was no reason to think the S.E.C. might lodge a complaint against it, as it did with New Jersey.
She added that investors had been calling with questions in the wake of the S.E.C.'s action against New Jersey, but said that Illinois had been telling them not to worry -- the regulator had not contacted state officials.
She said the state had no plans to revise any of its financial documents. Still, some actuaries are deeply concerned about Illinois's pension numbers, particularly because of a pension law enacted earlier this year.
State officials claimed the measure had sharply lowered costs by cutting the benefits that will be earned by workers hired in the future. (The current work force will continue to earn the same benefits as before.)
When it enacted the reform, Illinois issued a report, explaining in detail how it would work. Actuaries who have reviewed the numbers say that report is at least misleading and appears to be based on a type of calculation not authorized for pension disclosures. The state has not issued new audited financial statements since the law was passed.
Numbers in the report show that the state will be able to reduce its contributions to its pension funds, saving the state money, starting with $300 million in its first year and adding up to tens of billions of dollars over time. That's because Illinois could make smaller pension contributions, on the assumption that its work force would over time consist of people earning smaller pensions.
Paradoxically, even though the state will make smaller contributions, the report forecasts that Illinois will get its pension funds back on track to a respectable 90 percent funding level by 2045. It projects that costs will increase slowly and an economic recovery will make cash available for the state to make the contributions it has failed to do in the past.
Whether that is even possible is contested by some actuaries who note that its family of pension funds is now only 39 percent funded. (If a company let its pension fund dwindle to that level, the federal government would probably step in, but federal officials have no authority to seize state pension funds.)
Some actuaries who have reviewed the state's plans said that shrinking contributions would make the pension funds shakier, not stronger.
Indeed, one of them, Jeremy Gold, called Illinois's plan ''irresponsible'' and said it could drive the pension funds to the brink.
Further, Mr. Gold pointed out that Illinois's official disclosures said that its pension calculations used an actuarial method known as ''projected unit credit,'' but that the pension reform report used another method, which had not been approved for disclosure.
''According to Illinois statute, the prescribed contributions are determined under a method that may not be in compliance with the pertinent actuarial standards of practice,'' Mr. Gold said.
Actuaries from the two big firms that help Illinois with its pension funds conceded that the report relied on another methodology. Larry Langer of Buck Consultants said that a law allowed the state to use the alternate method outside of bond offering documents. Investors can look at both sets of numbers and draw their own conclusions, he said.
He acknowledged that using the latest pension reforms would lead to a lower funding level but said state officials were not concealing the magnitude of the problem. ''They almost laud it,'' he said.
Brian Murphy of Gabriel, Roeder, Smith & Company, another of Illinois's actuarial consultants, said the numbers were for illustrative purposes only and unlikely to reflect what the state would actually do in coming years.
''They're going to fund it at the proper level,'' Mr. Murphy said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Pat Quinn of Illinois, top. Illinois says its pension disclosures are accurate. Harry Wilson, above, a candidate for New York comptroller, says he has concerns about his state's system. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SETH PERLMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BONDS (89%); LAWYERS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%)

COMPANY: HAWKINS DELAFIELD & WOOD LLP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (73%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: PAT QUINN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



496 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: For a Change, U.S. Debt Is Staying in the U.S.

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
NEARLY a decade ago, when budget deficits ballooned in the United States, it was widely said that Washington -- like Blanche DuBois in ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' -- ''depended on the kindness of strangers.'' In Washington's case, foreigners -- mostly foreign governments -- stepped in to buy most of the new Treasury securities being issued. 
Budget deficits have ballooned again, but the story is different this time. Americans are buying most of the new Treasuries being issued. Foreign governments, whose purchases were once critical, were net sellers of Treasury securities in the first half of 2010, according to figures released this week.
That buying has reduced the Treasury's need to attract foreign capital and has helped to keep interest rates very low.
It is not clear, of course, how much that appetite for Treasuries reflects an eagerness to lend money to the United States government as opposed to a fear of losses from alternative investments.
Before the financial crisis struck in 2008, neither Americans nor private foreign investors showed much eagerness to finance Washington's deficits.
In calendar year 2007, the Treasury borrowed a net $237 billion. Of that, 81 percent came from foreign governments, mostly from central banks. Private foreign investors took up the rest, as American companies, banks and individuals reduced their combined Treasury holdings by $13 billion.
In the first six months of this year, the Treasury numbers indicate that foreign governments reduced their holdings of Treasury securities by $10 billion. Not since 2000 -- when the United States government was running a surplus and did not need additional funds -- have foreign governments been net sellers for a full calendar year.
The figures are estimates by the Treasury and are subject to substantial revision. And they need to be interpreted with caution, because they do not necessarily reflect the ultimate ownership of securities. Holdings of a London-based money manager are attributed to Britain, even though that manager's clients could live in New York, Hong Kong or Paris.
Over all, domestic investors purchased more Treasuries than did overseas ones -- including foreign governments -- in 2009 and again in the first half of this year. Those purchases came as government borrowing rose to pay for bailouts and recession-related spending.
The figures exclude Treasury securities owned by the Federal Reserve or other United States government agencies. As a result, Fed purchases and sales are not counted.
By contrast, during the six years from 2002 -- the first year that the United States ran a significant deficit after the years of surpluses -- through 2007, three-quarters of the $1.7 trillion in new borrowing came from abroad, with $1 trillion of that coming from foreign governments.
In the two and a half years since the end of 2007, the Treasury has raised twice that amount in new money, $3.5 trillion. More than half of that came from American companies and individuals, double the proportion they contributed in the earlier period.
Even with those increased domestic purchases, 46 percent of the publicly issued Treasury debt is held overseas. That is down from 49 percent in early 2008, just before the financial crisis began, but it is way above the 31 percent proportion at the end of 2001.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Who Lends to the United States? (Source: U.S. Treasury, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); STATISTICS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); RECESSION (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (54%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



497 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Too Long Ignored

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
A tragic crisis of enormous magnitude is facing black boys and men in America.
Parental neglect, racial discrimination and an orgy of self-destructive behavior have left an extraordinary portion of the black male population in an ever-deepening pit of social and economic degradation.
The Schott Foundation for Public Education tells us in a new report that the on-time high school graduation rate for black males in 2008 was an abysmal 47 percent, and even worse in several major urban areas -- for example, 28 percent in New York City. 
The astronomical jobless rates for black men in inner-city neighborhoods are both mind-boggling and heartbreaking. There are many areas where virtually no one has a legitimate job.
More than 70 percent of black children are born to unwed mothers. And I've been hearing more and more lately from community leaders in poor areas that moms are absent for one reason or another and the children are being raised by a grandparent or some other relative -- or they end up in foster care.
That the black community has not been mobilized en masse to turn this crisis around is a screaming shame. Black men, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, have nearly a one-third chance of being incarcerated at some point in their lives. By the time they hit their mid-30s, a solid majority of black men without a high school diploma have spent time in prison.
Homicide is the leading cause of death for young black men, with the murderous wounds in most cases inflicted by other young black men.
This is a cancer that has been allowed to metastasize for decades. Not only is it not being treated, most people don't even want to talk about it. In virtually every facet of life in the United States, black people -- and especially black boys and men -- are coming up short. White families are typically five times as wealthy as black families. More than a third of all black children are growing up in poverty. In Ohio, according to the National Center for Children in Poverty, the percentage is more than half.
There are myriad reasons for this awful state of affairs. As with so many other problems in American society, a lack of gainful employment has been a huge contributor to the problems faced by blacks. Chronic unemployment is hardly a plus-factor for marriage and family stability. And the absence of strong family units with mature parental guidance is at the very root of the chaotic environment that so many black youngsters grow up in.
The abominable incarceration rates among blacks are the result of two overwhelming factors: the persistence of criminal behavior by a significant percentage of the black population, and a criminal justice system that in many respects is racially discriminatory and out of control. Both of these factors need to be engaged head-on, and both will require a staggeringly heavy lift.
Education in the broadest sense is the key to stopping this socioeconomic slide that is taking such a horrific toll in the black community. People have to understand what is happening to them before they can really do much about it. Young blacks who have taken a wrong road, or are at risk of taking a wrong road, have to be shown a feasible legitimate alternative.
The aspect of this crisis that is probably the most important and simultaneously the most difficult to recognize is that the heroic efforts needed to alleviate it will not come from the government or the wider American society. This is a job that will require a campaign on the scale of the civil rights movement, and it will have to be initiated by the black community.
Whether this is fair or not is irrelevant. There is very little sentiment in the wider population for tackling the extensive problems faced by poor and poorly educated black Americans. What is needed is a dramatic mobilization of the black community to demand justice on a wide front -- think employment, education and the criminal justice system -- while establishing a new set of norms, higher standards, for struggling blacks to live by.
For many, this is a fight for survival. And it is an awesomely difficult fight. But the alternative is to continue the terrible devastation that has befallen so many families and communities: the premature and often violent deaths, the inadequate preparation for an increasingly competitive workplace, the widespread failure to exercise one's intellectual capacity, the insecurity that becomes ingrained from being so long at the bottom of the heap.
Terrible injustices have been visited on black people in the United States, but there is never a good reason to collaborate in one's own destruction. Blacks in America have a long and proud history of overcoming hardship and injustice. It's time to do it again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEN (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PARENTING (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); GRADUATION RATES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); GRANDPARENTS (73%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); STATISTICS (71%); PRISONS (70%); HOMICIDE (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



498 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: DETAILS FAULTED IN PLAN TO PAY OIL SPILL CLAIMS

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.; Reporting was contributed by John Schwartz from New York, and Ian Urbina and John M. Broder from Washington.

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS -- The details of exactly how the $20 billion fund set up by BP will be distributed to those affected by the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, which were made public on Friday, did little to allay worries and suspicions here, drawing instead sharp criticism from several quarters.
Small-business owners, shrimpers, state officials and others affected complained that the rules were too restrictive and were inconsistent with federal law.
At the same time, an internal government study emerged on the potentially high costs of the moratorium on most oil drilling in the gulf. The study, by the Interior Department, estimated a loss of as many as 23,000 jobs if the moratorium continued as planned through Nov. 30. 
The study, submitted to a federal court in New Orleans that is considering a legal challenge to the moratorium, also estimated that it would cost more than $10 billion in reduced economic activity and would reduce oil and gas production in the gulf by more than 4 percent over the next three years. Federal royalty revenue would fall by $522 million next year, the report stated.
The potential damages and how BP and the government intend to compensate those affected brought widespread complaints.
Shrimpers complained about a plan to deduct whatever they earned cleaning up the spill from their final settlement, which they asserted means that the oil company was trying to escape paying them for dangerous cleanup work. Lawyers representing businesses hurt by the spill said their clients should not have to forgo claims against other subcontractors involved in the spill just because they had reached a settlement with BP.
Florida's attorney general, Bill McCollum, called the protocol for short-term emergency payments ''completely unacceptable'' and said it fell short of the requirements under the federal Oil Pollution Act. In Mississippi, the attorney general, Jim Hood, also raised questions about the framework, saying the protocol for emergency payments was vague and could be implemented in a way that would limit the oil company's liability.
And some small-business owners worried about a decision by the fund's administrator, Kenneth R. Feinberg, a prominent Washington lawyer, to weigh a business's proximity to the affected shore in awarding compensation.
That rule, which BP lobbied for, might be used to exclude businesses farther inland whose bottom lines were hit by the drop in tourism and fishing, among them tackle shops, beer distributors, curio shops, seafood distributors, and gas stations and restaurants along the major highways to the beach.
In an interview, however, Mr. Feinberg said the guideline contained plenty of wiggle room and still gave him broad discretion to direct payments to businesses far from the shore if they could make the case that their trade was affected directly by the spill.
''Just because you aren't on the gulf,'' Mr. Feinberg said, ''that doesn't mean you are barred from receiving compensation.''
Defending the costs of the moratorium, Matt Lee-Ashley, an Interior Department spokesman, said the government had secured pledges from BP to help compensate workers, and asserted that the moratorium was necessary to ensure the safety of offshore drilling.
''The reality on the ground suggests that the impacts are less than we initially projected as a potential worst-case scenario,'' Mr. Lee-Ashley said of estimates made three months ago.
The most common complaint about the compensation protocols, was that people and businesses seeking a lump-sum settlement would have to reach a final agreement with the fund before the full effects of the spill on fish, wildlife and tourism become evident.
''The concern is you're going to have people essentially being taken advantage of because they have economic straits -- they get quick, low settlements and out of economic necessity take them, but in the long run they are not better off,'' said Stephen J. Herman, a New Orleans lawyer who serves as a liaison between plaintiffs' lawyers and the federal judge handling cases against BP.
Ryan Lambert, who operates a large charter fishing business out of Buras, La., said he was reluctant to negotiate a settlement with Mr. Feinberg because the redfish and speckled trout populations he depends on may be affected for two decades.
''How can anyone take a settlement when they don't know what's going to happen?'' he said. ''It's going to take three years for us to get a feeling for what damage these fish have suffered.''
Also provoking ire among gulf residents and their lawyers is the clause that says that money people earned during the period for which they claim their businesses lost earnings will be deducted from the final settlement. BP pushed hard for the clause to be included, according to documents from lawyers involved in drafting the rules.
But many of the very people who are most eligible to apply for a settlement -- out-of-work shrimpers, fishermen and dock workers -- are also the people who were hired to do cleanup work for BP. The consequence of the deduction clause in the protocol, critics say, is that BP will end up getting that work free.
''It's a real sore spot,'' said Lance Nacio, a shrimp boat owner in Dulac, La. ''We went out and risked our lives and put our boats and equipment and health on the line, and here they are penalizing us.''
Mr. Nacio and other critics pointed out that had they simply stayed home, BP would have to pay their full claim while also paying contractors to perform the cleanup work.
Mr. Feinberg defended the proposal, arguing that the oil company had in effect eased the economic woes of the fishermen with the offer of employment and shrunk their net losses.
Details of the protocols were published by The New York Times on Thursday night, based on internal documents from a team of lawyers handling the fund. Actually, there are two sets of rules, one covering emergency claims to be filed between Monday and Nov. 23 and the other governing the final settlements, for which claims must be submitted before August 2013.
Mr. Feinberg, who also handled a similar fund for victims of the Sept. 11 attacks, will take over the administration of the payments from BP on Monday. On Friday, he published the protocol for the emergency payments; the rules for the final payments will be published sometime in the fall.
The documents obtained by The Times described the terms of the emergency payments protocol, as well as the likely terms of the final settlement protocol. Claimants do not give up their right to sue BP and other companies in return for the emergency payments, though they do under the likely terms of the final payments.
But those final settlements will be much larger and, according to the documents, people seeking a lump sum will likely have to sign a release saying they will not sue any of the companies involved -- BP, Cameron, Halliburton, Transocean and possibly others. There is likely to be a much more intense political fight about that provision and the other proposed guidelines for the final settlements, officials said.
''The big battle is going to be fought over intermediate and final claims,'' said Mr. Hood, the Mississippi attorney general.
Mr. Feinberg said the question of whether people who receive payments from the fund could still sue other companies involved in the spill was far from settled, even though proposed drafts of the rules for final settlements say they will must waive those rights. ''There has been no determination made whatsoever at this time about the scope of the waiver,'' he said.
For both the emergency and final claims, however, the documents make clear that the fund, known as the Gulf Coast Claims Facility, will only pay for damages ''proximately caused by the spill'' and will ''take into account, among other things, geographic proximity, nature of industry and dependence upon injured natural resources.''
Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana raised concerns that the rules for final settlements would give claimants shakier legal footing than they currently have under the Oil Pollution Act, which has no geographic limitation on claims and allows them to be made for three years from the time the damage is discovered and six years after cleanup is completed.
Lawyers say the final settlement rules will force clients to make an impossible choice: take the cash or hold out for a larger award after a long court battle. Many smaller businesses will not have the resources to wait.
''A lot of people are desperate,'' said Jere Beasley, a lawyer in Montgomery, Ala., who represents more than 1,000 people seeking damages. ''BP realizes that they can take advantage of a person's desperation to pay the bills and feed a family. It's a callous approach.''
One of those businessmen who cannot afford a court fight is Wayde Bonvillian, who buys crabs from fishermen and softens their shells at a small plant in Montegut, La. Mr. Bonvillian said he was loath to accept any sort of settlement until he saw what the oil did to the blue crab population over the next several years. Yet he is bankrupt after losing what he estimates to be $500,000 in gross sales this year.
''I don't know if I will ever open again,'' he said. ''I'm completely out of business.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); BP GULF SPILL CLAIMS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (73%); ROYALTIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (71%); LOBBYING (71%); BEACHES (65%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); BEER & ALE WHOLESALERS (60%); INTERVIEWS (60%); FISH & SEAFOOD WHOLESALERS (60%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



499 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: A Design Challenge for St. Louis: Connecting the City With Its Symbol

BYLINE: By MALCOLM GAY

 BODY:
ST. LOUIS -- Since its completion in 1965, the Gateway Arch, Eero Saarinen's shimmering steel monument to westward expansion, has been an iconic point of pride for this city.
The 91-acre park that surrounds it? Not so much. Its snaking paths and undulating reflecting ponds have been dubbed an area of ''splendid isolation'' by critics, who say the park, along with the sunken Interstate that severs the city from the Mississippi River, has acted as a foot to the throat of recent efforts to revitalize the city's struggling downtown.
Previous efforts to integrate the memorial have foundered on the enormousness of the infrastructural task. But that goal took a major step forward on Tuesday, when an international design competition unveiled plans that could reshape the Arch grounds. 
Equally challenging may be the effort to secure the $305 million or more the National Park Service, which administers the site, estimates it will take to build the winning design.
''I don't know exactly how we're going to get there, but I have great confidence that we will get there,'' Ken Salazar, the interior secretary, said Friday while viewing the five finalists' designs. ''This has all the elements to be one of the most important great urban parks.''
The competition, sponsored by a private foundation that includes citizens, politicians and Park Service employees, spotlights several common remedies. Each design proposes placing a ''lid'' over Interstate 70, whereas today's visitors must traverse 10 lanes of traffic to reach the Arch from downtown.
The designs would also enhance the east side of the river -- a derelict patch of overgrown levee whose defining feature is a grain elevator -- by connecting it to the Arch grounds via a network of foot and bike trails. In one of the more fanciful visions, a gondola crosses the river, delivering visitors to an outdoor amphitheater that overlooks a floating stage. Other visions offer up a prairie forest or a beer garden that doubles as an ice rink in the winter. The designs are currently on view at the Arch, and a winner will be announced on Sept. 24.
Many view redesigning the Arch grounds as a crucial step to revitalizing St. Louis, which, like many other Midwestern cities, has seen its fortunes decline as manufacturing jobs have moved overseas. The city has suffered major population losses -- roughly 500,000 people over the half-century -- and entire neighborhoods were razed in the middle of the last century to accommodate highways.
In recent years, however, several neighborhoods have begun to show signs of renewed life. Downtown St. Louis is now home to thousands of lofts. It has a small entertainment district, and in the past year the downtown has added a sculpture park and its first new grocery store.
Nevertheless, the Arch grounds present a sort of Gordian knot of urban design: Girdled by depressed highways and busy surface roads, the park is bounded to the east by the Mississippi, which is prone to flooding. While the Arch, at 630 feet high, may offer sweeping views of the surrounding city and farmland, there are no amenities or restaurants on the grounds and little to encourage repeat visits.
To further complicate matters, the original design of the Arch grounds by Dan Kiley is a national historic landmark, meaning the teams are limited in how much they can alter the character of the park. ''There's a complexity that can't be solved by a single silver bullet,'' said the competition manager, Don Stastny. ''There have been efforts in the past, but they've been very incremental. This is a much more global look at things.''
Some observers seem less impressed. In a letter to The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Ralph Tharp called connecting downtown to the Arch grounds ''the most 'no duh' idea ever conjured up by us local hayseed professionals.'' He added, ''Missouri backwater designers and planners should be prideful that our counterparts in more sophisticated areas of the world agree with our findings from 20 years ago.''
The design challenge may be rivaled by the difficulties in raising money. While Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, expressed confidence Friday that her Congressional colleagues would view her state's project as a ''priority,'' some competition organizers were more skeptical.
''I still have to sell this to the National Park Service, which is looking at projects from 400 parks around the country,'' said Tom Bradley, superintendent for the Arch. ''Let's face facts: The whole line-item construction for the whole National Park Service is probably $100 million for next year. So we have to be realistic.''
Walter Metcalfe Jr., an area lawyer and member of the foundation CityArchRiver 2015, said that large parts of the park and the highway system were antiquated and in dire need of federal money for repair.
''A lot of costs are going to have to be incurred by the National Park Service on this park,'' Mr. Metcalfe said, ''whether they subscribe to a new design or whether they just bring it up do date.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Interstate 70 cuts the Gateway Arch grounds off from downtown St. Louis. One design proposal includes a gondola over the Mississippi River. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN GILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); SCULPTURE (70%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); POPULATION DECLINE (69%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: KEN SALAZAR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (94%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



500 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Blackwater Reaches $42 Million Settlement With U.S. Over Export Violations

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The private security company formerly called Blackwater Worldwide, long plagued by accusations of impropriety, has reached an agreement with the State Department for the company to pay $42 million in fines for hundreds of violations of United States export control regulations.
The violations included illegal weapons exports to Afghanistan, making unauthorized proposals to train troops in south Sudan and providing sniper training for Taiwanese police officers, according to company and government officials familiar with the deal. 
The settlement, which has not yet been publicly announced, follows lengthy talks between Blackwater, now called Xe Services, and the State Department that dealt with the violations as an administrative matter, allowing the firm to avoid criminal charges. A company spokeswoman confirmed Friday that a settlement had been reached. The State Department spokesman, Philip J. Crowley, said he could not immediately comment.
The settlement with the State Department does not resolve other legal troubles still facing Blackwater and its former executives and other personnel. Those include the indictments of five former executives, including Blackwater's former president, on weapons and obstruction charges; a federal investigation into evidence that Blackwater officials sought to bribe Iraqi government officials; and the arrest of two former Blackwater guards on federal murder charges stemming from the killing of two Afghans last year.
But by paying fines rather than facing criminal charges on the export violations, Blackwater will be able to continue to obtain government contracts. While the company lost its largest federal contract last year to provide diplomatic security for United States Embassy personnel in Baghdad, where the Iraqi government was incensed by killings of Iraqis in one highly publicized case, it still has contracts to provide security for the State Department and the C.I.A. in Afghanistan.
Blackwater, its reputation tainted in part because of the excessive use of force by some of its personnel in Baghdad, sought for years to extend its reach far beyond the war zones of Iraq and Afghanistan.
For a time, the company's founder, Erik Prince, had ambitions to turn Blackwater into an informal arm of the American foreign policy and national security apparatus, and proposed to the C.I.A. to create a ''quick reaction force'' that could handle paramilitary operations for the spy agency around the world. He had hopes that Blackwater's military prowess could be an influential force in regional conflicts around the world.
Mr. Prince, a former Navy Seals member and the heir to an auto parts fortune, took an interest in Africa, particularly Sudan, and he is said to have wanted Blackwater to step in to help the rebels in southern Sudan, which is predominantly Christian and animist, fight the Sudanese government and the Muslim north, despite United States economic sanctions.
Blackwater's ambitions in Sudan were described in detail by McClatchy newspapers in June.
The settlement with the State Department, involving practices from the days before Blackwater was rebranded as Xe Services, comes as Mr. Prince is trying to shed his ties to Blackwater and its past activities.
He overhauled the company's management in 2009, changed its name, and has now put the privately held company up for sale. He has just moved with his family to Abu Dhabi from the United States, a move that colleagues say was a result of his deep anger and frustration over the intense scrutiny he and his firm have received in recent years.
The State Department export controls require government approval for the transfer of certain types of military technology or knowledge from the United States to other countries. But Blackwater began to seek training contracts from foreign governments and other foreign organizations without adhering closely to American regulations.
The company also shipped automatic weapons and other military equipment for use by its personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan in violation of export controls, and in some cases sought to hide its actions, according to the government. In one incident, Blackwater shipped weapons to Iraq hidden inside containers of dog food.
A federal investigation into the company's weapons shipments to Iraq led to guilty pleas on criminal charges by two former Blackwater employees who are believed to have cooperated with a broader federal inquiry.
Investigators reportedly looked into whether some of the weapons that were shipped to Iraq were sold on the black market and ended up in the hands of a Kurdish rebel group, the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or P.K.K., which Turkey considers a terrorist organization. Turkish officials reportedly complained to the United States about American weapons seized from the group.
In 2008, after a federal investigation of Blackwater's actions was begun, the company admitted ''numerous mistakes'' in its adherence to export laws and created an outside board of experts to supervise the firm's compliance.
Current and former government officials say that the government's inquiry into some of Blackwater's export control violations began as part of a federal grand jury investigation in North Carolina, where Blackwater is based. But the matter was apparently shifted to the State Department when the criminal investigation in North Carolina narrowed its focus.
That grand jury handed down the indictments of the five former Blackwater executives earlier this year. That indictment includes charges that Blackwater executives sought to hide evidence that they had given weapons as gifts to King Abdullah of Jordan.
Despite the fines and investigations that have plagued Blackwater, the firm has continued to win contracts from the State Department and the C.I.A.
In June, the State Department awarded Blackwater a $120 million contract to provide security at its regional offices in Afghanistan, while the C.I.A. renewed the firm's $100 million security contract for its station in Kabul. At the time, the C.I.A. director, Leon E. Panetta, defended the decision, saying that the company had offered the lowest bid and had ''cleaned up its act.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ESPIONAGE (78%); MURDER (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); ARMS EMBARGOES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); ARMS TRADE (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); EXPORT CONTROLS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INDICTMENTS (74%); EVIDENCE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%)

COMPANY: ACADEMI LLC (98%); MCCLATCHY NEWSPAPERS INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (98%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (98%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) SUDAN (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



501 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Making Afghanistan More Dangerous

BYLINE: By JASON THOMAS. 
Jason Thomas was an aid official in Afghanistan.

 BODY:
Melbourne, Australia
UNDER orders from President Hamid Karzai, over the next four months Afghanistan will be phasing out almost all foreign private security companies, a move meant to bring the country's vast security apparatus under tighter government control.
It's a laudable goal. But it also means that foreign aid workers, government officials and companies will have to rely instead for security on the Afghan National Police and the Afghan National Army -- arguably two of the most corrupt and incompetent organizations in the country. Without a more effective replacement for foreign security companies, Mr. Karzai's order could make the situation in Afghanistan significantly worse. 
More than 30,000 private armed personnel are employed by more than 50 companies across Afghanistan. They provide security for the allied forces, the Pentagon, the United Nations mission, aid and nongovernmental organizations, embassies and Western news media. Foreign contractors also provide security for helicopter flights by the United States Agency for International Development and other civilian organizations.
None of these groups would feel safe relying on the national police or army for protection. A June report from the United States' special inspector general for Afghanistan reconstruction found that only 23 percent of the army and 12 percent of the national police are capable of operating without the supervision of allied forces.
It's more than a matter of competency; there are many examples of police working for the government by day and the Taliban by night. Many of the rest of the officers are simply corrupt.
Consider an incident I experienced soon before my departure from Afghanistan, when I was driving through the Kote Sangi traffic circle in Kabul. A contingent of national police officers waved over my car, which was loaded with $250,000 in cash I was taking to Ghazni, a town about two hours away, to pay laborers and staff members from my aid organization.
I knew the drill; this was a shakedown, one of countless that occur every day in the country. It didn't matter that I was a Western aid worker. The police wanted to search my car and haul off the cash.
I locked the doors and refused to get out. As the standoff went on, a crowd gathered. Kote Sangi is one of the busiest intersections in Kabul; hundreds of painters, carpenters and laborers wait there to be hired for day jobs amid the usual mayhem of donkeys, bicycles, sheep traders and mobile-phone-card hawkers.
A truck full of men from a foreign security company suddenly drove by and asked if I was all right. Taking advantage of their presence, I threatened to call in the American military, and the national police backed off. I drove on, conscious of the fact that they could have allies in the Taliban, waiting in ambush just outside town (fortunately, they did not).
Every aid worker has a story like this. Often, when you request that the police provide security, as I did in Logar Province earlier this year, they say it is too dangerous -- though, as with most other administrative obstacles in Afghanistan, a commander will tell you that a direct payment to him may make the road ''less dangerous.''
Without foreign security companies to turn to, aid workers and others will increasingly rely on domestic security companies, often controlled by local warlords -- essentially a protection racket. As a Senate report released this summer shows, such companies will even pay insurgents to attack convoys to justify their services. And just try reporting them to the police.
In short, Mr. Karzai's order will create a dangerous security vacuum in Afghanistan. Fortunately, there's an alternative. One of the most effective ways to provide security at a local level would be to replicate across Afghanistan the community guard program that operates in Wardak Province.
Community guards are essentially local militias modeled on the Awakening Councils that turned the security tide in Iraq in 2007. The militias, often comprised of former insurgents paid to embed themselves in communities, supported American military efforts and provided reliable local security to aid workers and other organizations.
Last month, Mr. Karzai agreed to allow the creation of such groups across Afghanistan. But government officials made it clear that they would be strictly limited in size and power. Washington and its allies need to do everything they can to pressure Kabul to give the guard programs more control and resources.
Without such a complementary, aggressive effort to expand local militias, Mr. Karzai's order to phase out foreign security contractors will cost lives, deter foreigners from working in Afghanistan and set back the drawdown of international troops.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); ARMIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); EXTORTION (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); HELICOPTERS (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); GHAZNI, AFGHANISTAN (79%) VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (74%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



502 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Clamoring For a Leader

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
So it turns out that the Elizabeth Warren rap video that went ''viral'' this week is actually a made-in-Hollywood production.
You know the video, don't you? The one in which a struggling comedian named Ryan Anthony Lumas, dressed in a cowboy outfit, high-steps his way through two minutes of catchy, if ersatz, rap, with lyrics like Sheriff Warren's what we need-o/ She's not about the money and the green-o... /She wants to expose the banks and all the greed/ and get rid of unnecessary fees/Which means more money in my pocket?
The group behind the video is the Main Street Brigade. But when you call the Main Street Brigade, you get the Santa Monica office of Hans Zimmer, a prolific Hollywood composer. The two women listed as the Brigade's contacts run Mr. Zimmer's new philanthropic/activist arm.
They are also the ones who recruited Mr. Lumas to write and star in the video -- he actually makes his living selling televisions at Best Buy -- then spent an all-nighter editing it, and e-mailed it to the Elizabeth Warren-obsessed Huffington Post, where it had its premiere a week ago Friday. 
''We're Trojan-horsing people with the messaging,'' said Bonnie Abaunza, one of the Brigadettes. In addition to Mr. Zimmer, supporters of the Main Street Brigade include the directors James Brooks and Ron Howard as well as other Hollywood celebrities. Its purpose is to back the work of Americans for Financial Reform, a large coalition of organizations pushing for financial reform. The coalition's Web site lists the subjects it follows, including foreclosure, derivatives and mortgage reform.
And, of course, Elizabeth Warren.
The group desperately wants President Obama to name her to run the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a key part of the recently signed financial reform legislation. ''Tell President Obama: Nominate Elizabeth to Head the C.F.P.B,'' reads the coalition's home page. When you click through, you get the text of a message that can be e-mailed directly to the White House, which points out, among other things, that the new bureau was her idea.
But why, I asked Ms. Abaunza, is it so important that Ms. Warren lead the new agency? Isn't it enough that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau got passed -- especially since the banks were so intent on killing it?
''She's the people's choice,'' Ms. Abaunza replied. She said she was blown away when she watched a video of a speech by Ms. Warren that outlined all the ways a new consumer bureau could make things better for borrowers.
''The best way to explain it is that she speaks truth to power,'' Ms. Abaunza continued. ''She speaks about how people have been ripped off in a way that everybody understands. Although she is a Harvard professor, she doesn't speak in an elitist way. She is a grandmother. She is from Oklahoma. I like the fact that she says 'golly.' She engenders this trust immediately. Because she is very honest.''
Also, she walks on water.
O.K., so she doesn't walk on water. Which isn't to say that Ms. Abaunza isn't right. Indeed, the incredible groundswell around Ms. Warren's candidacy appears to be putting President Obama in a tough spot.
His Treasury secretary, Tim Geithner, by all accounts, would prefer to see Michael S. Barr, the assistant secretary for financial institutions, get the job. Others in the administration worry that she will impose tough new rules on the banks that will make it harder for them to nurse themselves back to health and hence the economy. But it is going to be awfully hard for him to turn his back on Ms. Warren.
With the president on vacation, nobody expects him to make this appointment until he returns at the end of August. But if he chooses anyone but her, he will be widely seen as helping the banks at the expense of the rest of us -- something the government has been accused of doing far too often since those grim days of September 2008. With the midterm elections fast approaching, such accusations are not going to be terribly helpful to Democrats. Just a few days ago, 41 Democratic members of Congress sent Mr. Obama a letter pleading with him to appoint Ms. Warren.
How did this happen? How did a once-obscure Harvard Law professor become such a powerful touchstone?
Partly, it is because she really did come up with the idea. Ms. Warren's views about banks and borrowers were largely formed early in her career when she and two colleagues, Teresa A. Sullivan, now the president of the University of Virginia, and Jay Lawrence Westbrook, a law professor at the University of Texas, conducted two seminal studies about people who file for bankruptcy.
In the late 1980s, when the first study was unveiled in a book the three of them wrote, ''As We Forgive Our Debtors,'' the root causes of bankruptcy weren't well understood. The bank lobby routinely complained that Americans with the means to pay their debts were taking ''the easy way out'' by filing for bankruptcy. The empirical work done by the Warren-Sullivan-Westbrook team proved those claims false.
People who filed for bankruptcy were genuinely in over their heads, the researchers found. They had accumulated debt they couldn't repay because they had lost their jobs or had some other life event that robbed them of their ability to earn a decent paycheck. They were often middle class, homeowners even. They filed for bankruptcy because they were desperate. Looking through thousands of bankruptcy filings, Mr. Westbrook said a few days ago, ''you got a sense of human beings in real trouble.'' He added, ''All of us were very much affected by what we found in those files.''
By the summer of 2007, when Ms. Warren proposed the consumer agency, she was a well-known advocate for financial consumers -- and the scourge of the credit card industry. She coined the term ''tricks and traps'' to describe how the banks lulled people into agreeing to credit card terms they weren't even aware of when they signed up for the card. She had testified before Congress many times.
In the article where she proposed the new agency -- she called it the financial product safety commission -- she began with an analogy to toasters. (Ms. Warren has a thing for toaster analogies.) ''It is impossible to buy a toaster that has a one-in-five chance of bursting into flames and burning down your house,'' she wrote. ''But it is possible to refinance an existing home with a mortgage that has the same one-in-five chance of putting the family out on the street.'' Her timing could not have been better, she wrote the article at the exact moment the subprime bubble was reaching its peak.
What struck me, when I reread that article recently, was the bluntness of her language. She used words like ''tricks,'' ''fleece,'' and ''bribe'' to describe the actions of mortgage and credit card lenders. And I think a lot of her appeal stems from that simple fact: she describes abuses -- predatory lending, hidden fees, bewildering ''disclosures'' that hide more than they disclose -- in precisely the way most Americans have experienced them. She conveys a powerful sense that she understands what we've been through this last decade.
Her critics have complained that in her quest to avenge the downtrodden consumer, she could endanger the safety and soundness of banks, by writing rules that would strip them of billions in profits. Her essential position is that if taking advantage of borrowers is necessary to save the banks, then there is something deeply wrong with the banking system in America. The American Bankers Association may not agree with that, but that is unquestionably what most Americans believe. And they are right.
Ms. Warren also conveys a powerful sense of optimism about the good the new agency can do. I saw this for myself just a few days after President Obama signed the new law, when she was part of a panel discussion by the Roosevelt Institute, a liberal policy research organization that focuses on financial issues. I was also part of that panel, but after listening to Ms. Warren speak, I felt a little like Ms. Abaunza. I was bowled over.
That afternoon, Ms. Warren conveyed a great deal of passion, energy and historical knowledge about consumer lending practices. She gave a minitutorial about the history of usury laws, and about how credit card disclosures had become a tool for gouging customers.
Ms. Warren said that the new agency would have the power to make a rule, for instance, that credit card companies would have to disclose all their contract terms in two pages -- in English simple enough for anyone with a 10th-grade education to understand. That one change, she said, would help end the practice of ''cheating by contract.'' (Another lovely Elizabeth Warren phrase, by the way.) When she had finished speaking, the audience gave her an ovation.
In 1934, Franklin D. Roosevelt had to choose a chairman to head a new agency aimed at protecting financial consumers -- in this case investors. The agency was the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the man Roosevelt picked was Joe Kennedy, the legendary investor (and father of the Kennedy clan). When Roosevelt was asked why he had turned to a ''crook'' to run the S.E.C., he famously replied, ''Takes one to catch one.''
This time, the president is facing a different choice. The people who want Elizabeth Warren to run the new consumer agency are rooting for her precisely because she is not one of them. She's one of us.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elizabeth Warren proposed the financial reform agency in an article in the summer of 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); FORECLOSURE (75%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (71%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (89%); RON HOWARD (77%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



503 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Palestinians Resuming Talks Under Pressure

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, agreed to resume direct negotiations with Israel only after intense pressure from the United States and Europe, diplomats said Friday, as the Obama administration sought to restart the Middle East peace process but left many key questions unanswered.
In formally announcing the new talks on Friday, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said that the negotiations would cover all the issues that had bedeviled peace negotiators since 1979 -- the status of Jerusalem, the borders of a Palestinian state, the right of return for Palestinian refugees who were forced to leave their homes and security provisions for Israel. But she pointedly did not mention a basic plank of previous talks -- using Israel's pre-1967 borders as a basis for territorial negotiations. 
Nor did the Obama administration announcement make any mention of a set agenda, a plan for which issues would be tackled first, or any basic terms of negotiations. And neither Mrs. Clinton nor the administration's Middle East envoy, George J. Mitchell, made any mention of whether Israel would agree to extend a moratorium on the construction of Jewish settlements, which Palestinian advocates had previously indicated was a crucial requirement to the success of any peace deal, and which Mr. Abbas himself had previously demanded as a condition to talks.
Middle East experts said that the lack of specificity in Friday's announcement, and the lack of any public signal by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel that he would make any concessions, could prove perilous domestically for Mr. Abbas, who is already the politically weak leader of a divided people. As a result, analysts said, Mr. Abbas is coming to the table reluctantly. Mr. Abbas made no public statement endorsing the deal on Friday.
Daniel Levy, a former Israeli peace negotiator, said: ''Abbas wanted a clear reference to the 1967 lines; instead he was given 12 months to continue making his case in the hopes that the Americans will intervene decisively.'' Arab diplomats offered a similar analysis.
But American diplomats, their European counterparts and Mr. Obama made the case to Mr. Abbas to return to the negotiating table without conditions, administration officials and Arab diplomats said. American officials argued that they could do more to help the Palestinian cause through direct negotiations. By setting a one-year deadline for the negotiations, Mr. Obama, who met with Mr. Abbas at the White House in June, is implicitly giving the Palestinian leader the assurance that if the two sides cannot make progress soon, the United States will step in with its own proposal outlining what a peace deal should look like.
''We will be active and sustained partners, although we recognize that this is a bilateral negotiation,'' Mr. Mitchell told reporters at a State Department news conference. ''And we have indicated to both parties that, as necessary and appropriate, we will offer bridging proposals.''
For Mr. Obama, ''the challenge is straightforward -- difficult, but straightforward,'' said Martin S. Indyk, a former American ambassador to Israel and Middle East peace negotiator. ''The U.S. job is to determine the minimum requirements of the two sides through the process, and then to offer bridging proposals.''
In fact, even while criticizing the vagueness of Friday's statement, several Middle East experts acknowledged that at this point, there has been so little progress on a peace track that the United States, and Mr. Abbas, had no other option than to agree to the direct talks if they hope to inject some momentum into a seemingly intractable issue.
''There is every reason to be skeptical -- the state of Palestinian politics, the shape of the Israeli government, the record of our diplomacy,'' said Robert Malley, Middle East and North Africa program director for the International Crisis Group. ''But there's also a flip side: a Palestinian leader who needs an achievement; a U.S. president who appears deeply invested, and a hard-line Israeli prime minister who, if he were to sign an agreement, would be better placed than most to sell it.''
Mr. Mitchell offered a reminder of how the administration viewed resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as important to protecting American interests throughout the Middle East. A peace agreement, he said, was in the ''national security interests'' of the United States -- repeating a phrase used by Mr. Obama, which has unsettled Israeli officials who worry about the steadfastness of American support for Israel.
Mr. Obama's personal relationship with Mr. Netanyahu is on better footing these days, officials said, following a 79-minute one-on-one session in the Oval Office last month during which the two sought to relieve tension that had flared after a year and a half of deep policy differences.
Appearing before reporters after that session, Mr. Obama, who had spent the last year publicly pressing Mr. Netanyahu to curb the building of Jewish settlements in a policy that fanned resentment in Israel and among some conservative Jewish organizations in the United States, did not push the Israeli leader to extend the existing moratorium. Instead, he said that moving to direct talks would give Mr. Netanyahu the incentive and domestic political leeway to act on his own.
For Mr. Obama, the issue has domestic ramifications as well. He has always been viewed with a degree of wariness by some Jewish voters in the United States, and undertaking a high-profile initiative heading into the midterm elections could hold both opportunity and peril for him and his party.
Both American and Arab diplomats said Friday that they were hoping that Mr. Netanyahu would announce an extension of the moratorium anyway, since allowing it to expire could end the talks. The chief Palestinian negotiator, Saeb Erekat, said Friday that if Israel announced new settlement construction, the Palestinians would withdraw.
The diplomats said that if Mr. Netanyahu did extend the moratorium, he would go out of his way to deny any link between the concession and the negotiations, for fear of further infuriating his right wing or making a concession that he would then have to stick to during the peace talks.
Though the Israeli government did not budge on the settlement freeze, analysts said the Israelis offered the Palestinians other assurances, including a plan to develop a part of the Dead Sea coast as a resort area for Palestinians, provided Israeli investors were included in the project.
Mr. Abbas has told American visitors this project is important to the Palestinian Authority, as a symbol and as an engine of economic growth. There is a joint Palestinian-Israeli hotel in the West Bank town of Jericho.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and George J. Mitchell, the Middle East envoy, in Washington on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (73%); REFUGEES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (89%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (78%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



504 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America's Ex-Chief Denies Fraud in Merrill Deal

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Kenneth D. Lewis, the former chief executive of Bank of America, responding on Friday to a lawsuit filed early this year by the attorney general of New York, denied allegations of fraud in connection with the bank's merger with Merrill Lynch. 
In a filing with the State Supreme Court, Mr. Lewis said the case against him about the merger, at the height of the financial crisis, was without merit.
''Some have looked to assign blame for every aspect of the financial crisis, even where there is no evidence of misconduct,'' the filing said. ''This case is a product of that dynamic and does not withstand either legal or factual scrutiny.''
The case sprang from the office of Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo after Bank of America rescued Merrill and at the peak of public furor over how the merger was conducted. Troubles at Merrill after the deal was signed forced Bank of America to accept a second federal bailout and that left it beholden to the government longer than most other companies.
The deal also eroded the legacy of Mr. Lewis, casting doubt on his decision to buy Merrill -- a transaction that capped more than two decades of aggressive acquisitions for Bank of America, which is based in Charlotte, N.C.
The bank is one of the most important investment brokerage, banking and trading companies because of its Merrill acquisition.
The company and its former chief financial officer also filed replies to the lawsuit on Friday.
''The filing expresses our consistent position that the company and its officers provided sufficient and appropriate disclosure prior to the shareholder vote in December 2008,'' Robert Stickler, a bank spokesman, wrote by e-mail.
Richard Bamberger, a spokesman for the attorney general, said Mr. Cuomo stood by the allegations in the complaint.
Bank of America settled a similar case related to the merger with the Securities and Exchange Commission early this year. The S.E.C. did not accuse Mr. Lewis or other people of wrongdoing.
Its case and Mr. Cuomo's centered on the bank's disclosures related to the Merrill deal and accused the bank of misleading its shareholders about Merrill's deteriorating health and about large bonuses that would be given to Merrill workers.
Mr. Lewis, Joe Price, the bank's former chief financial officer, and the bank denied Mr. Cuomo's many allegations. Mr. Price criticized Mr. Cuomo's characterization of the merger as an example of ''the modus operandi of our nation's largest financial institutions'' that led to the near collapse of the financial system.
He said in his reply that the merger had helped save the financial system and that it was wrong to suggest that the merger had cost taxpayers billions of dollars, since the bank repaid the money with interest.
The case is on track to be tried, but that may not occur before the November elections, in which Mr. Cuomo is running for governor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenneth D. Lewis said the case failed ''legal or factual scrutiny.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KEANE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MERGERS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (90%); ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



505 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Speaking to Democratic Leaders, Biden Rejects Grim Prognosis for Midterms

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
ST. LOUIS -- Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. admonished Democrats on Friday to shake away their pessimism about the fall elections, arguing that the prospect of historic losses would be minimized because the Republican Party has been overtaken by extreme candidates and stale ideas.
''The reports of the death of the Democratic Party have been greatly exaggerated,'' Mr. Biden said, paraphrasing Mark Twain as he addressed party leaders here. ''The day after the election, there will be a Democratic majority in the House and a Democratic majority in the Senate. If it weren't illegal, I'd make book on it.'' 
As the Democratic National Committee gathered for its summer meeting at Union Station in St. Louis, anxiety marked a stark change for a party that had reveled in back-to-back election cycles that produced control of Congress and the White House. Democrats acknowledged the difficult political climate, but they said that their candidates could benefit from Republican shortcomings.
''The choice is not between Democrats and the Almighty. It's between Democrats and the Republican Tea Party,'' Mr. Biden said, suggesting that most American voters would not tune into the election until after Labor Day. ''Voters are going to look at what the Republican Party is really offering -- more of the past, but on steroids.''
With 75 days remaining in a midterm campaign that will determine whether Republicans will win control of Congress, the White House dispatched the vice president here to boost the spirits of Democrats who are bracing for the prospect of deep losses in House, Senate and governors' races. Republicans must pick up 39 seats in the House and 10 in the Senate to gain a majority.
Democrats conceded they are not only fighting against tides of history -- only twice in the last 75 years has the president's party not lost seats in a midterm election -- but a bleak economy and an unemployment rate that remains close to 10 percent. To win over voters, Democrats are searching for a balance between trumpeting their legislative achievements and reminding voters they inherited the economic problems.
''We can get in the bunker. We can say, it's not our fault, it's the economy,'' said Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri. ''Or we can remember what it felt like two years ago when we were on the verge of something special in this country. We need to remember that sense of purpose.''
Tim Kaine, the Democratic national chairman, announced that the party raised $11.5 million in July, the second-highest monthly figure of the election cycle. The party had $10.8 million in the bank, he said, which would be used to create an aggressive get-out-the-vote operation aimed at core Democrats and first-time voters who supported President Obama two years ago.
He said Democrats held important structural advantages over Republicans, particularly the strength of their political organization in states across the country.
''There's a lot of gloom and doom, but I think we're going to do a lot better than people think,'' said Mr. Kaine, delivering a raw partisan speech to a ballroom filled with Democrats, many of whom leapt to their feet as he dismissed Republicans as ''easy streeters and country clubbers.''
The Republican National Committee, which has struggled to raise money this year, was still tabulating its July fund-raising figures. Two weeks ago, when members of the Republican committee gathered for their summer meeting in Kansas City, Mo., party leaders conceded that they were worried about the fund-raising disparity with Democrats.
But Republicans believe the political environment will overcome any campaign shortcomings.
Not long after the vice president delivered his speech on Friday, the Republican National Committee issued a statement criticizing him and other Democrats for being out of touch, particularly given the number of people seeking unemployment benefits reached the half-million mark for the first time this year.
''Joe Biden is still desperately trying to convince Democrats that the economy is on the right track,'' said Bill Riggs, a Republican spokesman. ''It's clear that Barack Obama and Joe Biden are completely out of touch.''
In addition to the vice president, the administration also sent Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, to address the Democratic gathering. She said the landmark health care law, which will be implemented in phases, is among the reasons voters elected Democrats and should be a central part of the party's argument.
''We passed a transformational health care bill in spite of daunting odds,'' said Ms. Sebelius, a former Democratic governor of Kansas. ''The more people understand this bill, the more they're going to like it.''
A poll released Friday by CNN showed that 56 percent of Americans oppose the health care bill, while 40 percent support it. The sentiment has barely changed over the last five months.
The Democratic National Committee also voted to approve the 2012 presidential primary nominating calendar, setting the date of the Iowa caucuses for Feb. 6, 2012, and the New Hampshire primary on Feb. 14. The contests in Nevada and South Carolina will follow over the next two weeks, with other states beginning their voting after March 6.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (96%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); US LABOR DAY (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (91%); TIM KAINE (79%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (89%) MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



506 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Hudson River Park

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''In Signs of New Life, Property Deals Below as a Park Runs Above'' (Square Feet column, Aug. 11) underscores the link between healthy parks and a much-needed healthy economy for New York City. 
Our 2008 study concluded that Hudson River Park was directly responsible for 20 percent of the increase in value to properties within an adjacent three blocks, with effects taking place as soon as park construction became visible -- confirming the park's additional value as a community investment while providing desirable waterfront access for the broader public.
Hudson River Park and the High Line are indispensable and measurably valuable city amenities, and make the case for increasing support from both the public and private sector for these unique parks on Manhattan's far West Side. Policy makers would be wise to re-examine investments in parks throughout the city as a catalyst for economic development linked to an improved quality of life for all New Yorkers.
A. J. Pietrantone Executive Director Friends of Hudson River Park New York, Aug. 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CITY LIFE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



507 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (CNN) IN AMERICA: NEW ORLEANS RISING Five years after Hurricane Katrina ravaged New Orleans, Soledad O'Brien reports on the rebuilding of Pontchartrain Park, a largely black middle-class neighborhood born out of segregation, which had one of the lowest rates of returning homeowners after the storm. This special follows the actor Wendell Pierce -- a star of HBO's ''Treme,'' who evacuated his elderly parents (above with Mr. Pierce at left) from their Pontchartrain home before Katrina -- as he battles red tape, financing and reluctant residents to lead a charge to return his childhood community to its former glory, despite no experience as a developer. Ms. O'Brien also visits two families: Hurby Oubre, who is committed to staying in the neighborhood, and his wife, Lisa, who, seeing no possibility of returning, has moved to Baton Rouge with her son; and Meldon and Audrey Woods, who have taken out a loan they fear they will never be able to repay in order to rebuild their home. Lisa P. Jackson, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, who grew up in Pontchartrain Park, and the former New Orleans mayor Ray Nagin weigh in. The jazz trumpeter Terence Blanchard, who called the neighborhood home as a child, composed and performed the program's theme music. 
10:30 A.M. (13) RELIGION & ETHICS NEWSWEEKLY Kim Lawton looks at a kidney exchange program in which donors who are not a match for a friend or family member can give a kidney to someone else, in exchange for a compatible kidney for their loved one. Lucky Severson interviews the inventor Ray Kurzweil, who believes that artificial intelligence will surpass human intelligence by 2050, leading to a hybrid of man and technology.
NOON (13) RICHARD HEFFNER'S OPEN MIND In a rebroadcast of a 1990 program, David Brown, the author, editor and stage and film producer perhaps best known for movies like ''The Sting,'' ''Jaws'' and ''Driving Miss Daisy,'' discusses his books ''Brown's Guide to Growing Gray'' and ''Let Me Entertain You.'' Mr. Brown died on Feb. 1 at 93.
8 P.M. (HBO) THE INFORMANT! (2009) In Steven Soderbergh's retelling of a real-life whodunit reported in a book (and for The New York Times) by Kurt Eichenwald, Matt Damon, right, adds some pounds and a prosthetic nose to play Mark Whitacre, a biochemist and Archer Daniels Midland executive, who informs on his company in a global price-fixing scheme. Scott Bakula and Joel McHale are the F.B.I. agents who become so protective of Whitacre that they carry around a picture of his family after wiring up his body and briefcase. ''Like all of Mr. Soderbergh's movies, this one can be appreciated on purely formal terms, for the clarity of its images and the economy of the storytelling,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times. ''But it is Mr. Soderbergh's insistence on seeing the A.D.M. scandal as a collective tragedy rather than as another white-collar crime that gives the movie force, resonance, feeling. In the face of such corruption perhaps only laughter will do: after all, for a while now the joke has most definitely been on us.''
9 P.M. (Lifetime) CONFINED (2010) After losing her job and suffering a mental breakdown, Victoria Peyton (Emma Caulfield) relocates to suburbia with her husband, Michael (David James Elliott), where she starts to suspect that her next-door neighbor (Michael Hogan) is holding a young woman captive in his basement. But is Victoria simply losing her mind?
9 P.M. (Syfy) LAKE PLACID 3 (2010) A game warden (Colin Ferguson, ''Eureka'') moves his family to Lake Placid, once home to killer crocs. The locals say the man-eaters are gone. But the warden's son has discovered some baby crocodiles -- and he's feeding them. ''Lake Placid 2'' leads in at 7.
10 P.M. (Cinemax) WHIP IT (2009) Ellen Page, left, plays Bliss Cavendar, a Texas teenager rebelling against the beauty pageant dreams of her mother (Marcia Gay Harden) in this directorial debut from Drew Barrymore. And what better way than to become a roller derby girl, with a nifty new name: Babe Ruthless? Ms. Barrymore also appears as Smashley Simpson, one of Bliss's sharp-elbowed teammates, alongside Kristen Wiig (as Maggie Mayhem), Juliet Lewis (Iron Maven) and the rapper Eve (Rosa Sparks). '' 'Whip It' has an easygoing spirit, a lightness of touch in spite of occasional excursions into melodrama, that makes it hard to mock and easy to like,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times. ''It will not change the way you think about movies, roller derby or the relations between teenage girls and their mothers, friends or dreams. But it does invite you to stop and appreciate all those things.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HURRICANES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); FAMILY (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); FILM (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (70%); PRICE FIXING (69%); WRITERS (66%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (65%); ETHICS (64%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (63%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (61%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (52%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (60%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (60%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (60%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (60%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (60%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (60%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (60%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (60%)

PERSON: LISA P JACKSON (67%); MATT DAMON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



508 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: Successor To Cuomo May Change Job's Focus

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
As New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer and his successor, Andrew M. Cuomo, transformed an office that once focused on crooked car dealers and polluting power plants into arguably the most powerful state attorney-general post in the country.
Each poured his considerable energy and ambition into high-profile cases aimed at the systemic reform of major industries -- Wall Street investment bankers, student-loan lenders and health insurance companies. Each used his expansive portfolio to elbow his way onto the national stage, becoming a contender for governor, even president.
That era is coming to an end.
The six candidates vying to succeed Mr. Cuomo have sketched out an array of priorities to distinguish themselves in a crowded field. But as they campaign across a state still reeling from recession and outraged at Albany's political establishment, a common theme has emerged: The next attorney general, the candidates say, must put a newfound focus on urgent problems facing New Yorkers, from mortgage fraud to corrupt state lawmakers. 
''I think you have an office that can become the people's lawyer in a way that the office has never been before: a place that is accessible, that takes individual cases and maximizes how they help New Yorkers,'' said Eric R. Dinallo, who led wide-ranging cases against the financial industry as a top deputy to Mr. Spitzer in the attorney general's office and is now a Democratic candidate to succeed his former boss.
Like Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Cuomo, the new crop of candidates is adapting to shifting political circumstances. Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Cuomo held office during a time when federal regulators, under the Bush administration, took a laissez-faire approach to bankers and industry.
But their successor will take office at a time of far more stringent federal regulation of Wall Street and the environment, leaving fewer opportunities for the attorney general to leap into the breach.
Years of scandal in Albany are also influencing the candidates, several of whom say their top priority would be corruption investigations against state officials and the passage of legislation that would broaden the office's limited powers to enforce state ethics laws.
''The attorney general should be a catalyst for the reform of state government,'' said Sean Coffey, a Democratic candidate and a former federal prosecutor who became a plaintiffs' lawyer. ''I do think we are on the cusp of the most meaningful reform of New York State in a generation.''
Amid a continuing debate in New York over allowing gay couples to marry, several Democratic candidates have pledged to revitalize the attorney general's civil rights bureau. As New Yorkers struggle with unemployment and mortgage bills, some say that the attorney general must tackle what one candidate, State Senator Eric T. Schneiderman, a Democrat who represents parts of Manhattan and the Bronx, calls ''the grass-roots consequences of the economic collapse.''
And while most of the candidates say they would remain vigilant over Wall Street, Daniel M. Donovan Jr., the Staten Island district attorney and the only Republican in the race, has suggested that there are more important battles to be fought, a notable retreat from the turf carved out by Mr. Spitzer.
''I think we have to clean up the government before making headlines trying to clean up other industries,'' Mr. Donovan said. ''I think there's corruption in the financial services industries, in police departments, in schools. But I don't think you have to destroy an industry or business to rid it of corruption.''
With more than 600 lawyers and wide-ranging civil powers, the New York attorney general's office is a uniquely flexible institution in state government. And every attorney general has reshaped the office in different ways, whether Mr. Cuomo's focus on student-loan providers or the major expansion of consumer fraud and antitrust cases under Robert Abrams, who held the job from 1979 to 1993.
''The incumbent attorney general has enormous discretion in setting the priorities of the office,'' said Robert B. Ward, deputy director of the Rockefeller Institute of Government, a research institution in Albany. ''It's large enough that whoever is the attorney general can use the staff resources to a large extent in the way that they want to.''
The current candidates, to be sure, do not lack ambition.
In debates and on the campaign trail, Mr. Schneiderman and Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat, have presented visions of the office as a kind of great equalizer, cracking down on abuses by employers and powerful business interests.
And both said they would seek novel ways to apply the attorney general's powers, as Mr. Spitzer did when he dusted off the Martin Act, the 89-year-old law that gives New York's attorney general jurisdiction over financial fraud. Yet their focus is clearly narrower. Mr. Brodsky would use the attorney general's jurisdiction over charitable institutions to sue the New York Independent Systems Operator, a nonprofit organization set up by the power industry that controls the daily wholesale price of electricity. Mr. Brodsky argues that the organization in effect fixes prices, costing New Yorkers over $2 billion in excess energy costs.
In an interview, Mr. Brodsky, a self-styled economic populist, said he would also seek to be more active on local environmental issues, like pollution of the Hudson River, than Mr. Cuomo.
''Indian Point is the worst polluter in the state,'' said Mr. Brodsky, who led a private lawsuit that compelled the State Department of Environmental Conservation to tighten regulation this year of polluted water discharged from the nuclear power plant, which lies along the Hudson. ''Instead of just filing an amicus brief on some of these cases, which is what Andrew has done, the attorney general should be bringing some of these suits.''
Similarly, while Mr. Spitzer became famous for headline-grabbing battles against prominent Wall Street executives like Richard A. Grasso and Kenneth G. Langone, Mr. Schneiderman said he wanted to focus on other kinds of financial crime. New York, he said, faced a ''crime wave'' in the area of so-called misclassification, in which companies report full-time employees as independent contractors to avoid disability and unemployment insurance payments.
Mr. Schneiderman has also proposed the creation of a ''debt squad,'' a kind of legal A-Team of investigators and assistant district attorneys, to take on mortgage-marketing fraud and abusive debt collectors.
''Down the food chain from the guys who create C.D.O.'s are all the New Yorkers who got steered into bad mortgages when they were qualified to get cheaper mortgages and are now being hounded by collectors who had nothing to do with originating the loan,'' Mr. Schneiderman said, referring to collateralized debt obligations.
Mr. Coffey and Kathleen M. Rice, the Nassau County district attorney, who is also running for the state post, want to transform the attorney general into New York's top ethics watchdog, largely by persuading the Legislature to give the office greater jurisdiction over public integrity cases, something lawmakers have been loath to grant.
Mr. Cuomo made similar promises when he ran in 2006. But he has not put significant effort into lobbying the Legislature, instead concentrating on issues like corruption in the state pension fund, where the attorney general already has substantial powers.
Ms. Rice and Mr. Coffey say they believe that the intensely anti-Albany mood of voters could sway lawmakers to give them more prosecutorial powers.
They have also pledged to take on a host of issues not normally within the attorney general's purview: independent redistricting of state legislative districts and laws to force lawmakers to disclose their outside business interests.
''Traditionally, the attorney general has been seen as the keeper of our civil rights and social-justice issues,'' Ms. Rice said. ''I think the attorney general is uniquely positioned to be the keeper of the public trust.''
Mr. Dinallo, the candidate perhaps most intimately familiar with the attorney general's resources and powers, suggested that the next attorney general should leverage the prominence that Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Cuomo brought the office to elevate traditional areas of jurisdiction, like consumer fraud and civil rights.
Instead of concentrating staff and resources in the unit handling Wall Street cases, Mr. Dinallo has pledged to place an assistant district attorney in all 62 New York counties and urge his deputies to look out for the little guy.
''What I would say to the bureau chiefs is, 'Bring me the cases that may not be at first blush sexy, or be national issues,' '' Mr. Dinallo said, '' 'but the ones that where you hear the complaint by the person, you know in your bones that thousands if not millions of New Yorkers have the same complaint.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Democratic candidates for New York attorney general in a debate in July. From left: Sean Coffey, Richard L. Brodsky, Eric R. Dinallo, Kathleen M. Rice and Eric T. Schneiderman. Daniel M. Donovan Jr., a Republican, is also running. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ETHICS (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); INSURANCE (71%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); LEGISLATION (68%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (56%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010



509 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Complaint Box Book Batterers; They're School Texts, Not Soccer Balls

BYLINE: By JESS DECOURCY HINDS

 BODY:
For me, a school librarian, back to school means only one thing: handing out 3,500 textbooks and begging students to treat them kindly.
I am still in shock from June, when a parent returned his daughter's 10th-grade English text. It looked just like its name: ''Things Fall Apart.'' Ripped and torn, its cover was splattered with tomato sauce, as if it had been shot in the heart. My horrified expression did not register with the student's father. ''Do we owe you anything?'' he asked. Flummoxed, I just smiled and issued his daughter full credit for returning her books. 
In late August, we educators should be thinking about how to spark students' love of learning - not peeling bubble gum off books or scrubbing ''Macbeth'' with the obsessiveness of Lady M. herself.Since the recession, library use - and book abuse - have skyrocketed. I've found younger generations to be avid readers, but as products of the digital age, they don't always respect the physicality of books. They dog-ear pages with the impulsiveness of clicking a mouse, not realizing that their actions have permanent consequences. Kindle-reading parents may have also forgotten the basics of book care.
Born in 1980, I am from the antiquated generation in which people winced if you so much as picked up a pen in the vicinity of a library book. My friends and I made textbook covers out of brown grocery sacks, decorating them with drawings and stickers.
As I examine last year's victims, I find a geometry book that has been kicked like a soccer ball (I saw it happen), a vampire novel whose pages show bite marks (no joke), ''The Joy of Cooking'' stained with gravy and a copy of ''Walden'' with its spine cracked in three places. (I smile at this last injury - at least it was reading-related.)
The book abuse at my school is minor, but I'm bracing myself for worse. I recently posted a note on a New York City school librarian listserv asking if anyone else was concerned about the mistreatment of books. My in-box was flooded with e-mails, including one from a librarian at a Brooklyn high school who offered to mail me a book gnawed beyond recognition by a student's dog.
Public schools do not have money to replace books - what goes around comes around. So take care of those schoolbooks. Or your child may be reading ''The Grapes of Wrath'' with a side of marinara sauce.
Jess deCourcy Hinds lives in Long Island City, where she works as a school librarian and freelance writer.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY P. C. VEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); LIBRARIANS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); WRITERS (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); SHOOTINGS (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



510 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: In Monterey, Classics Turn Bankable

BYLINE: By ROB SASS

 BODY:
MONTEREY, Calif.
THE marathon of classic-car events that takes place here each August in conjunction with the Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance has often been called the World Series or Super Bowl of the automotive universe, but those descriptions sell this celebration short. If anything, it's more like the Olympics, with the leading contenders in a broad variety of specialties gathered on the Monterey Peninsula for a head-spinning series of shows, tours, races and high-stakes auctions.
This year, the judges of the centerpiece concours, staged on the 18th fairway of the Pebble Beach Golf Links, chose as Best of Show a white 1933 Delage D8S De Villars Roadster owned by the Patterson Collection of Louisville, Ky. 
While the fine points of this world-class beauty pageant may be of greatest interest to automotive history buffs, the auctions that take place here attract a broad following of market-watching collectors. From Thursday through Sunday, more than $170 million of automobiles, some elegant beyond words and others as raucous as college students on spring break, changed hands.
While the prices of individual auction lots fall far short of fine-art masterpieces, this year's results vividly illustrated the willingness of wealthy collectors to spend heavily for the best and rarest cars. In spite of fears that a double-dip recession might be afoot, the total dollar figures were some $50 million higher than last year, and included more than 30 cars whose final prices topped $1 million; more remarkable, perhaps, was that the total easily exceeded that of the market's height in 2008, when $138 million of cars was sold.
To Robert Ames, a retired bank president who is now a commercial real estate investor and car collector in Portland, Ore., the buyers' enthusiasm made financial sense.
''In the upper end of the market there is a great deal of liquidity,'' he said, ''and the great number of fine automobiles on the market in Monterey made it tempting for individuals who are seeing nearly no return from traditional investments to look to collectible automobiles.''
A growing sentiment that people investing in collector cars at the highest level are not speculators, but people turning to hard goods in times of uncertainty, was expressed by several auction house executives, including David Gooding, president of Gooding & Company in Santa Monica, Calif.
Ian Kelleher, president of RM Auctions of Blenheim, Ontario, agreed. ''It remains encouraging that the market continues to be driven by end-users,'' he said. ''We always have some concern about speculators entering the market.''
Wayne Carini, a collector-car dealer in Portland, Conn., and host of the Discovery HD Theater show ''Chasing Classic Cars,'' sees a generational shift in collecting, away from 1950s Americana, as well as a change in the attention span of collectors. ''There's an immediate gratification aspect to things today, with fewer people wanting to go through the restoration process,'' he said. ''They want cars they can enjoy now.''
Among the most notable sales this year were a 1959 long-wheelbase Ferrari 250 GT California Spider sold by Gooding for $7.3 million, a 1967 Chevrolet L88 Corvette sold by Mecum for $1.3 million, $3.6 million for a 1972-73 Porsche 917 Spyder racecar sold by Bonhams and $4.6 million for a 1954 Ferrari 375 MM sold by RM.
As in recent years, RM and Gooding battled for their respective shares of the top of the market. This year, it was RM that set the highest dollar figure -- $67 million in total sales with 95 percent of its cars sold, compared with $65 million and 80 percent sold at Gooding. And the RM restoration shop performed the work on this year's concours-winning Delage. Still, Gooding did have the highest individual lot sale with the Ferrari California Spider.
Mecum Auctions had a very strong outing in its second year here, exceeding last year's total of $13.8 million by about $2 million. Russo & Steele rebounded from a tough start on Friday night and a tent-toppling wind storm during its January auction in Arizona to post better results than last year as well.
How does all this affect the owner of a '65 Mustang in Des Moines? Matt Stone, editor of Motor Trend Classic magazine, said that what went on in Monterey made no difference at all. ''The serious buyers I've talked to are interested in rare cars in immaculate condition with immaculate provenance, and nothing else. So the gap between the best cars and questionable cars continues to widen -- and lesser cars will struggle to find buyers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FRENCH TOAST: Best of Show was this 1933 Delage D8S roadster from the Patterson Collection. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON KIMBALL STUDIOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (74%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (74%); REAL ESTATE (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); HISTORY (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (72%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (52%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (56%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



511 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Here Comes the Bride. Again.

BYLINE: By TATIANA BONCOMPAGNI

 BODY:
SARAH LANDMAN wore an elaborate silk satin and tulle gown on June 12, befitting her traditional wedding to David Schwarz. But by the time a band started playing for their 350 guests on the grounds of the Philadelphia Navy Yard, Ms. Landman had ditched her Oscar de la Renta for a custom-made white cocktail frock embellished with sequins and ostrich feathers.
''I wanted to change into something I could jump around in,'' said Ms. Landman, 27, a buyer for the designer Tory Burch. 
Despite the sagging economy, more brides -- and not just celebrities -- are buying and wearing two dresses for their wedding day. Harriette Rose Katz, a wedding planner in New York, said the practice has become practically ubiquitous among her clientele. Jung Lee of Fete, an event planning company, estimated that about 70 percent of the brides she sees are changing into a second dress, a figure that's been on the rise for the last three years.
In other parts of the world, the multi-dress wedding day is nothing new.
''It's very common in Asia, between India, China and Korea, where there are actually many dress changes, not just one,'' Ms. Lee said. ''It's been going on for hundreds of years.''
According to Ms. Lee, brides in this country -- including Carrie Underwood, Alicia Keys and Mena Suvari, who all wore two dresses at their weddings this summer -- usually make the switch during the reception. They might change after cocktails and before cake-cutting or during a band-to-DJ transition (which is when Chelsea Clinton is said to have donned her second Vera Wang dress, a Grecian-inspired number, during her marriage to Marc Mezvinsky).
Why two dresses? Monique Lhuillier, a bridal designer, traces the trend in this country back 10 years, to when wedding dresses started becoming bigger and heavier, necessitating a second dress, usually a white, ivory or silver frock with a shorter hemline or slinkier silhouette.
''Brides who buy second dresses are usually women who want it all,'' said Elizabeth Hui, a buyer for Bergdorf Goodman. ''The traditional over-the-top princess gown for the wedding ceremony, and afterwards, for the reception, a fun, flirty party dress that is more comfortable.''
Amsale, the company that made Ms. Keys's second dress, started a capsule collection of little white dresses, priced from $900 to $1,200, in 2008, while Badgley Mischka started selling dresses with detachable ball skirts, including a $3,950 gown from its Mark + James line.
In response to customer demand, Ms. Lhuillier, who designed two dresses for Ms. Underwood, has started putting more short dresses in her salons, and Michelle Smith, the designer of the Milly line, has partnered with Nordstrom to produce a line of short white dresses.
''Almost all the designers are now carrying a second-dress option,'' said Karina Timmel, the executive editor of Get Married magazine, which featured a ''Short and Sweet'' fashion spread in this summer's issue.
And for some brides, like Julia Hawkins, it's not about one big dress and one small one, but two full-on fairy tale confections. For her wedding last September, Ms. Hawkins, fashion director for Women's Wear Daily, bought a traditional cap-sleeve Monique Lhuillier dress and cathedral-length veil to walk the aisle of Trinity Wall Street in New York. She also bought a Carolina Herrera strapless gown cut from reverse embroidered lace for the dinner reception at Cipriani Wall Street. ''It was just real hard to decide,'' Ms. Hawkins said.
As Stacey Bendet, the Alice + Olivia designer who made two custom gowns for Ms. Suvari's wedding, said, ''From a fashion perspective there's nothing like making a second entrance.''
Or a memorable exit. Whitney Ranson, 27, a merchandise planner, chose a sleeveless dress by Ms. Lhuillier for her April wedding at a country club in Delray Beach, Fla. But at the end of the night she changed into a short strapless cream dress, which she bought at H & M for $40.
''I wanted to switch it up for the exit,'' said Ms. Ranson, who made her getaway in a golf cart as guests held sparklers overhead.
Of course, not everyone is a fan of the trend. Randy Fenoli, the fashion director of Kleinfeld Bridal in New York and the host of ''Say Yes to the Dress,'' a reality show on TLC, said he recently talked a bride from Houston out of buying three dresses, one of which cost $8,000.
''In my personal opinion you should get one really great dress,'' he said. ''Find a dress, the ultimate dress, because there's always going to be one dress you like more than the others. It's like getting married. There's only one guy.''
It is advice Fiona Hagist de Sada, 28, probably wishes she had heard before her wedding three years ago in Monterrey, Mexico. She wore a lace and organza gown appropriate for the traditional ceremony (with 632 guests) at the private chapel on the estate her husband's family owns. In time for dinner and dancing, however, Ms. Hagist de Sada abandoned the full-skirted Vera Wang in favor of a silver-beaded chiffon dress from the designer Reem Acra.
''I didn't want to deal with having to tie up the train,'' Ms. Hagist de Sada said.
But now?
''When I look back at the pictures, I wish I'd worn the first dress longer,'' she said. ''I'll never get to wear it again. It was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DRESS NO. 1: Whitney Ranson wore this traditional sleeveless gown, designed by Monique Lhuillier, for her April wedding at a country club in Delray Beach, Fla.
 DRESS NO. 2: At night's end, Ms. Ranson switched to a short strapless dress from H & M before leaving with her husband, Alexander Ranson. Some brides change dresses earlier. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GONZALO VILLOTA/JVILLOTA.COM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); TRENDS (76%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (74%)

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA RENTA (57%); ALICIA KEYS (50%); CARRIE UNDERWOOD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (77%); ASIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



512 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Disaster Strategy: The Soft Heart And the Hard Sell

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
Let's all hope that Egypt, Turkey and Jordan soon get hit by a nice flood, earthquake or volcanic eruption.
Why? Because they're down with Pakistan at the bottom of lists of countries that pollsters say hate the United States. And, according to students -- and some administrators -- of foreign aid, recipients of disaster relief fall in love with America, at least briefly.
Disaster relief as geopolitical valentine ''has an unseemly aspect,'' said J. Brian Atwood, President Bill Clinton's chief of U.S.A.I.D., the United States Agency for International Development, who is now dean of the University of Minnesota's Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs. ''We shouldn't be using it to proselytize. Helping others has always been an American value.'' 
But, he added, let's not be unrealistic. Politics does creep in.
It is rare that America finds itself so overtly facing off against an ideological foe as it is said to be now in Pakistan's flooded river valleys. Discussions of the global response inevitably mention that Islamic charities were first on the scene, often adding some have ''links to militant fundamentalists'' or words to that effect.
Pakistan's president, Asif Ali Zardari, pushes this line while pleading for aid, warning that ''negative forces will exploit the situation.''
Some consider this an exaggeration. Of course Islamic charities are at work: Pakistan is Islamic, and Islam lauds charity just as Christianity and Judaism do. ''There are a whole range of people working here, largely quietly and unsung,'' Dr. Zulfiqar Bhutta, a Pakistani public health expert who wrote an editorial on the crisis in The Lancet medical journal, said in an e-mail. ''They are neither Taliban or Al Qaeda, and to call them such is a travesty.'' Nonetheless, the idea that the Taliban and the American Army are fighting to see who can hand out tents faster is firmly present in the debate.
Pressed on the issue by PBS Newshour, Richard C. Holbrooke, special representative to the region, said the administration was ''not oblivious to the political and strategic implications'' of its aid. But, he said, ''We're doing this because the people are in desperate need.''
Do those other implications matter?
Yes, some experts insist. Mark L. Schneider, a former Peace Corps director now with the International Crisis Group, noted that in polls taken by the Pew Research Center's Global Attitudes Project three years before the 2005 earthquake in Pakistan, only 10 percent of Pakistanis viewed America favorably. In the year following the quake, in which American helicopters flew dozens of rescue missions, 27 percent did.
Predator drone strikes have since weakened that goodwill, but ''my guess is that it will come up again,'' Mr. Schneider said. ''The U.S. is the single largest donor to this effort.''
Andrew S. Natsios, U.S.A.I.D. director under George W. Bush, now teaches at Georgetown and is an even more fervent believer in using aid to sway minds. ''To suggest people won't have a reaction when they see us feeding our enemies and our friends at the same time is silly,'' he said.
Before the 2004 tsunami, he said, only 28 percent of Indonesians admired the United States, while 58 percent admired Osama bin Laden. Three months later, after Navy helicopters had flown rescue missions and delivered thousands of aid packages, ''and after there was a big debate in the papers about where 'our friend bin Laden' was,'' he said, approval of the terrorist leader had fallen to 26 percent and approval of Americans was at 63 percent. (Mr. Natsios cited local newspaper polls gathered by America's embassy; polling by the Washington non-profit Terror Free Tomorrow shows the same trend.)
Every aid package, he pointed out, bore a ''From the American People'' label his local mission chief had printed. The United States had stopped branding its aid in the 1990s because charities wanted to use only their own labels.
''I found that a little hypocritical,'' Mr. Natsios said. Now an ''American People'' label must be used unless it puts a charity's workers in peril.
Other American agencies, he said, envy U.S.A.I.D.'s friendly blue clasped-hands logo, which it inherited from the Marshall Plan.
State Department aid is marked with its eagle, while the logo of the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief is a globe with a big red ribbon. The first can be seen as militaristic; the second confuses Africans who don't instinctively connect lethal diseases with fabric trimming.
The history of disaster relief goes back at least to 226 B.C., when an earthquake struck the island of Rhodes. Ptolemy III of Egypt, according to the Greek historian Polybius, offered ''300 talents of silver and a million artabae of corn,'' plus help rebuilding the famous Colossus.
Such aid doesn't always stem from charity alone, said Carol J. Lancaster, dean of Georgetown's School of Foreign Service. England helped Portugal after Lisbon's 1755 earthquake, tsunami and fire. Both were rivals of Spain, she said, ''and the enemy of my enemy is my friend.''
Americans who wanted to help Ireland during its potato famine had to use their own money because President Polk wouldn't use tax dollars, Dr. Lancaster said, though he let the Navy carry grain to Cork. American Protestants ran soup kitchens, but pressed diners to convert. (Irish Catholics sneeringly called those who did ''soupers.'') The most generous gesture may have been $710 sent by the Choctaw Indians, who knew starvation from their own Trail of Tears.
After World War I, taxpayers did feed shattered Europe. That included Russia in its famine of 1921; the two-year American mission fed and vaccinated millions. But, however many hearts they won, Lenin's was not one. The Soviets pushed the mission out before the famine ended.
Overall, the Pew polls tend to bear out what aid officials believe: that help wins friends. Countries that steadily get lots of American aid with few strings attached -- African nations, South Korea, Israel -- tend to top the charts of pro-American feelings. And one nation really stands out. Ever since Barack Obama was elected, Kenyans have loved the U.S. In fact, they like it even better than Americans do.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); RELIGION (89%); EARTHQUAKES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICS (75%); FUNDAMENTALISM (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); AL-QAEDA (71%); TERRORISM (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (57%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (57%); BILL CLINTON (57%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (95%); EGYPT (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



513 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; Pg. 192

LENGTH: 3057 words

HEADLINE: The Fall of the House of Ungaro

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
When I first heard this story from Asim Abdullah's own lips, over tea at the St. Regis hotel in New York, I thought he was one of the saddest cases I had ever met. He is really in over his head, I thought, and he isn't even done yet. I should probably tell you that this was not my first meeting with Asim Abdullah -- that occurred late one night in January, briefly and quite by chance, as I was leaving the Hotel Plaza Athenee in Paris following dinner with some girlfriends, but clearly it left an impression on me. As we set foot toward the revolving door, one of my friends, a lively, stunning woman, nudged me and said under her breath, ''That's the man who owns Ungaro.'' 
Now, many people know Ungaro because it was prominent in the '80s and '90s. If you were a snooty boutique owner in Dallas or New York and you couldn't sell an Ungaro dress with the drapery pouring over the breasts and thighs like butter on a hot ear of corn, you had no business being in retail. Men loved a woman in an Ungaro dress, it was said, because the style and the vibrant colors made them imagine what she had on underneath -- in a way that an Armani pantsuit did not -- and, further, what they might do with this thought. The woman, then, had utterly enslaved the poor devils, and made them pay for the privilege besides. That was essentially Emanuel Ungaro's approach when he opened the house in 1967 on the Avenue Montaigne. Make them pay!
With this basic formula, and the extra sheen of Ungaro's haute couture gowns, real harem stuff, the business became extremely successful. Nearly all of its revenue came from licenses -- the Emanuel line, for instance, a division of $400 jackets and dresses created for American department stores, at its peak did $180 million a year -- and Ungaro and his family grew very wealthy. But by 1996, for one reason or another, he decided to sell the house to the Ferragamo shoe firm. It was the curse of these old Avenue Montaigne houses that their culture was based on a master-slave relationship; nothing could happen until the master, in a white lab coat, signaled he was ready to be handed another straight pin, and then everybody could breathe again. Anyhow, by the time the Ferragamos grasped this madness, Ungaro was losing roughly $15 million a year, and they signaled to their bankers to look for a buyer.
Abdullah was the only serious buyer who turned up. That was in 2005, and as you probably guessed, he had no experience in fashion. When he called his wife, Isha, at home in Atherton, Calif., near San Francisco, where she was taking care of their two boys, she answered, ''Are you talking about the Ungaro?'' Abdullah was then a 42-year-old computer engineer, originally from Karachi, Pakistan, who had gone to graduate school at Stanford and, thanks to his entrepreneurial efforts -- and good timing -- had made a fortune in technology. As serious and plodding as he is by nature, the experience of seeing the price of a tech share rise 1,000 percent in a few months rewired his brain. Gogol once wrote that everyone has his own craze. And Abdullah itched for that excitement and pride he felt in the late '90s, when he and another entrepreneur started Veo Systems, which created software for e-commerce. They merged with Commerce One, and Abdullah became a director. He was there for its public offering and left, taking out half of his shares, about six months before the tech bubble burst.
So when he heard during a business trip to Paris that Ungaro was for sale, his heart began to pound. Sure, he had doubts, he said -- ''right up to the last second.'' But he was intrigued by the notion of marketing luxury brands. And he felt very confident that if he hired ''the best people'' and let them do their jobs -- empower the slaves! -- then he could probably turn Ungaro around in a few years. Despite her initial reaction, Isha, a doctor and a woman of remarkable patience, felt that a new challenge would do her husband good. He had spent the previous few years playing golf and buying vintage cars and going to auctions. As far as Isha was concerned, the house didn't need another painting. ''We're the kind of people who really need intellectual engagement,'' she said.
Well, nothing has worked out as Abdullah planned. Instead of hiring ''the best people,'' he trusted the wrong people, most onerously the man he put in charge, Mounir Moufarrige. Three designers have left, beginning with Peter Dundas, now a star at Pucci. Virtually all of Ungaro's business in this country has vanished, and the total ready-to-wear volume next year is a projected $13 million. Abdullah reportedly paid $84 million for Ungaro -- and he is still writing checks. Meanwhile, he has put on weight and started smoking again. Abdullah is a man of good character, but he had no instincts for the fashion world, for its fast talkers and almost invisible snares. This was obvious last fall when he agreed to hire Lindsay Lohan as ''artistic adviser'' for Ungaro. Forty years of labor and passion had gone into that house, and he blew it by putting Loony Lohan on the runway. Who was going to touch a $2,000 Ungaro dress now? The whole thing made Abdullah sick with misery.
It was not long after that I saw him in the revolving door. He had evidently been out for a smoke, for he was coatless. He looked nervous and sweaty, his gray-streaked hair falling in slats across his forehead, his shirt buttons at war with his paunch, and in a flicker of recognition I thought I detected the frantic, pleading look of a drowning man. Then he waved doggedly from his glass compartment. Maybe it was the hour, or the stress. He was away from his family for weeks at a time, living at the Plaza, as the regulars call it, amid the hydroponic floral schemes and the egos boasting and lurking in the bar. The best that he could hope for, considering everything, was that a permanent volcanic ash cloud would settle over the Avenue Montaigne.
Was it vanity? Restlessness? What makes a rational man choose behavior that, upon reflection, is irrational and self-destructive? Abdullah's preparedness for entering the fashion business was exactly that of an earnest man diving into a swimming pool without checking to see if it has water. To be sure, it's an old, old story -- overconfident men getting burned -- but in the past 15 years it has been exacerbated by the number of people with excess capital (created in part by the tech bubble) and by the amount of low-hanging fruit around. To someone with Abdullah's resources and smattering of interests, Ungaro would look tempting. But by 2005, the big luxury goods players, LVMH and PPR, had determined that no fashion brands in Europe were worth buying except those well out of reach -- Chanel and Armani.
Ron Frasch, the president of Saks, admires Abdullah's zeal and likes him personally. ''I feel a little sorry that he has been kind of rope-a-doped, as we say in the industry. He's a fine, honorable person,'' Frasch said. ''It's hard to enter this business without any knowledge. Everybody's a seller and they can dust off an old rotted-out peach and make it look good.''
When I saw Abdullah in Paris in June, he said, ''I'm very conscious of how the world perceives me -- '' he paused -- ''as this Silicon Valley, accidental rich guy who bought this house so he can have fun.'' Abdullah tends to avoid reporters. But he is warm and candid, with a dry sense of humor. It's the way he tells a story at his own expense. For some reason, I asked him about golf. We were sitting on a sidewalk terrace. Brightly he replied, ''I love golf. I study it, I worry about it, I work on it, and I'm not that good.'' He wasn't being modest, either. Later, when I spoke to his golfing buddy Sabeer Bhatia, a co-founder of Hotmail, he told me, ''His game hasn't improved that dramatically.''
But Abdullah's worries often get the better of him. Chiefly he wonders if he hasn't wasted the last six years.
Many businessmen have been spellbound by fashion, but Abdullah actually missed the trip wires of models and runway shows. He can remember only a few times when he accompanied his wife to a store. When he reflected on why the wives of the wealthiest dot-com people had never become clients of haute couture, in spite of eccentric enough tastes, he smiled faintly. ''Because they look down on this industry,'' he said. ''I mean, they'll do something really stupid like build a giant telescope to look at the heavens from their house and spend several million dollars to do that. You also must realize that a lot of people in Silicon Valley come from fairly humble origins. It's not the sons of established money. You come to Silicon Valley and you forget what your culture is, what your color is, what your religion is. Everything else becomes secondary, and that's sort of the magic of Silicon Valley.''
You can't blame Abdullah for wanting to bring the self-empowerment rap to the Paris fashion world and break up the master-slave relationship, which has been going strong for 70 years and has to do with the hierarchy of couture. It really cranks him when a young assistant asks what kind of flowers he wants on the reception desk. He wants to tell her, ''You decide! You're free!'' He doesn't see how a business can thrive with so many people doing someone else's bidding. But the fact is, in fashion, the designer sets the aesthetic tone for a brand and the C.E.O. or owner is there to enforce every choice, silly or not.
However, Abdullah wanted his chief executive, Moufarrige, to be in charge. ''I've never felt that I'm the one making the business decisions,'' he told me. ''You leave the decisions to the decision makers.'' You may discern here that this was Abdullah's first mistake. Moufarrige has been around the industry for years. A tall, avuncular man, he recalls one of Gogol's more ingratiating characters: his pleasantness has ''much too much sugar in it.'' He relishes telling people that he was the one who picked Stella McCartney for Chloe, which he did, but Chloe's real success has been due to Ralph Toledano, its C.E.O. for the past decade.
Anyway, at the time Moufarrige was hired, in 2006, he said that Abdullah told him, ''I know nothing about this business. I'll be very honest with you, I don't want to know anything -- it would take me years to learn.'' Moufarrige paused, making a noise that sounded like a chuckle. ''He always used to tell people in the first two years, 'He's my teacher.' He's very sweet.''
Moufarrige insists that he didn't make any decisions without speaking to Abdullah. Nonetheless Moufarrige was soon telling Dundas, who had been hired before he arrived, what kind of clothes he should design: he wanted more dresses and prints. ''I wasn't voicing a personal concern,'' Moufarrige drawled. ''I was voicing a concern of all the major stores.'' Dundas's designs certainly pushed boundaries of taste and elegance -- he was really influenced, he said, by his memories of the brand rather than by the archive -- but the more acute source of tension in the house, many say, was that Moufarrige tried to play creative director. (The stylist George Cortina, who worked at Ungaro with Dundas, said, ''It was the worst experience I can remember,'' recalling a 2 a.m. scene when he warned Moufarrige, whom he found rearranging Dundas's show lineup, that he would be thrown out a window if he continued meddling.)
''Look at the critics,'' Moufarrige urged Abdullah. ''If we don't change Peter, we're going to have a major problem.'' Though Dundas's departure in July 2007 put Ungaro further back and made it impossible to recruit a top designer -- ''The house had developed a bit of a reputation,'' Abdullah admits -- he continued to trust Moufarrige. And time and time again Moufarrige's seductive confidence and great words must have soothed his eager pupil.
But it was a good thing that Abdullah had his wife to talk to. ''She's been a very supportive woman,'' he said. ''I think I spend 90 percent of our conversations on this fashion house. She listens, she gives her opinion. And for some stupid reason she still trusts me.''
Isha seems to understand the problem. In the tech world, she said, Abdullah ''has hardly ever needed to rely on intuition and vibes. It's more of a womanly thing to do,'' she said. Besides, people were very direct. After a few years at Ungaro, he realized that fashion wasn't all that complicated. ''But Asim was not ready to listen to his intuition,'' his wife said. ''He was still reluctant to take a hands-on role and say, 'O.K., it's not rocket science.' He was still relying on advice that had hidden agendas. As it is, I think it's very difficult for women to get seduced by words. But Asim had to learn the hard way.''
By the fall of 2007, things at Ungaro were going downhill. Unable to attract a star, Abdullah hired Esteban Cortazar, an obscure young designer in New York. Naturally Cortazar was awed to find himself in such a high position, and it wasn't long before Moufarrige was telling him what to design. ''It was obvious that a lot of the ideas just felt dated,'' Cortazar told me. ''In general everyone in the house felt disconnected from Mounir. It was always what he wanted.''
Moufarrige had begun to push the idea of teaming up with a celebrity who might put some heft behind the brand, make some noise. Otherwise, he argued, the standard approach of developing a new identity might take years before the house saw a profit. ''He really thought that idea was going to work,'' Cortazar said. ''I saw this person convincing Asim that this was the direction to take. There was nothing I could do. I said, 'Go for it, but I can't be part of it.' '' Cortazar also thought Abdullah asked too many people for advice.
So he left, and Moufarrige replaced him with Estrella Archs, who could work with Lohan. Meanwhile, ignoring that he was the C.E.O. of an Avenue Montaigne house, Moufarrige began to name-drop like mad, telling Abdullah that such and such editors were in favor of Lohan.
Abdullah was stunned by the power of editors, referring to them as oligarchs, and he greatly disliked the kowtowing. He also struggled to understand their decisions -- they seemed so arbitrary to him. One reason he liked the idea of using a celebrity -- and, O.K., he said, maybe in hindsight Lohan wasn't the best choice -- was that it bypassed the traditional tastemakers that exist between the creative process and consumers. ''If you look at almost any other business, that is what is going away -- the intermediaries,'' he said.
Still, when Moufarrige told Abdullah that he had visited Anna Wintour in her office at Vogue and that he had her support for the Lohan decision, Abdullah didn't mind having an important editor on his side.
Anyway, Wintour says she never O.K.'d the Lohan idea, which in any case was a fait accompli when Moufarrige arrived at her office. What she told him, she said, was that she was strongly opposed to it.
Moufarrige, who resigned in December, doesn't accept that the erupting howls in the press hurt Ungaro or that he was responsible. Instead he blames Estrella Archs. ''Lindsay, poor thing, didn't have much to do with the collection,'' he said. ''But we had so much noise.''
Well, that's almost the whole sad story. In May, Abdullah hired the designer Giles Deacon. He had also put Marie Fournier, a longtime operations executive at Ungaro, in charge of the business. Reaction to the choice of Deacon, who received a small equity stake in the company and who will show his first collection in October, was positive. The company was almost like a startup, Abdullah said, not displeased; he felt that Deacon would finally be able to provide creative leadership. However, Ron Frasch of Saks pointed out that the luxury industry has emerged from the economic crisis leaner and fiercely competitive. Even the most seasoned professionals now find themselves in a new wilderness. How would Ungaro be able to catch up? And do women want those kind of femme fatale clothes again? Frasch also questioned whether Fournier was the right person for the job. ''I truly respect her, but she doesn't have the background to rebuild a brand,'' Frasch said. ''You need a Ralph Toledano type who understands all the steps. While the brand has extraordinary heritage, I think the jury is out.''
I asked the chief executive of a prominent French fashion house if he thought Abdullah could succeed at Ungaro, and he said no.
''But Abdullah is a smart guy,'' I protested, pointing to Silicon Valley. ''Listen,'' the executive said, ''I think I'm smart, but if I were running an airplane company, do you think I could make smart decisions? What people see from the outside is the irrational part of fashion. But on the inside you have to be extremely rigorous to reduce that to a minimum. Otherwise it becomes what Ungaro is -- total irrationality and emotion.''
''So what should Abdullah do?'' I said.
''Give the company to someone for one euro and go and enjoy his life.''
Abdullah probably wouldn't do that. Too much pride. Besides, he finally has a handle on fashion. ''I think my instincts are a bit more developed than they were five years ago,'' he said. But then a few minutes later his mood changed, and he added, ''It's just that everything is so public. This isn't me running a grocery store that's going out of business. You start to lose confidence in yourself. At least I feel I've tried. I've been open to ideas. And that's what bothers me. I was 40 years old and sitting on top of the world. Here I am, 47 and thinking, What else could I have done the last six years of my life? Not necessarily in terms of business, but maybe there was a more productive path I could have taken. I brood a lot,'' he said. ''I worry about this company every second of my life. I haven't talked to my kids in four days. I've hardly talked to my wife. I'm brooding.'' He laughed, to let me know he wasn't as crazy as all that.
When I told his wife word for word what he had said, Isha let out a sigh. ''I hate the fact that he is second-guessing himself,'' she said. ''Because, believe me, as his wife who has a simple faith in him, he's one of the smartest people I've ever come across, and I'm surrounded by the best brains. Asim should never have to second-guess himself.
''Yes,'' she added, ''he's missing his family and we're missing him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: House Proud: Emanuel Ungaro at work on a couture wedding dress in 1991. Couture houses like his relied on a master-slave relationship
no one breathed until the designer signaled he was ready for another pin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROXANNE LOWIT) (M2 192-193)

Sexy sells: Clockwise from left: Emanuel Ungaro in 1972
an evening look from the '60s
in the studio in 1987
the classic Ungaro silhouette in an editorial from 1986
the designer with models in 1990.
Prints Charming: Clockwise from left: Ungaro with models in 1992
a couture show from 1986
Mounir Moufarrige, the company's former C.E.O.
looks from 2010 pay homage, sort of, to classics from 1984.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY [COPYRIGHT] CONDE NAST ARCHIVE/CORBIS
[COPYRIGHT] TOPHAM/THE IMAGE WORKS
ABBAS/MAGNUM PHOTOS
[COPYRIGHT] CONDE NAST ARCHIVE/CORBIS
ROXANNE LOWIT
ABBAS/MAGNUM PHOTOS
AP PHOTO/CHRISTOPHE ENA
VALERIO MEZZANOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES [COPYRIGHT] 2009 (2)
[COPYRIGHT] PIERRE VAUTHEY/CORBIS SYGMA
[COPYRIGHT] CONDE NAST ARCHIVE/CORBIS. (M2 194-195)
In And Out: Designers who have come through the house's revolving door in the last decade include, from left, Giambattista Valli (with Ungaro), Peter Dundas, Esteban Cortazar and Estrella Archs (hired to work with Lindsay Lohan). Giles Deacon will show his first collection for the house this fall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM LEFT: GETTY IMAGES
[COPYRIGHT] WWD/CONDE NAST/CORBIS
ROXANNE LOWIT
[COPYRIGHT] STEPHANE CARDINALE/PEOPLE ANVENUE/CORBIS
 [COPYRIGHT] STEPHEN HIRD/REUTERS/CORBIS. (M2 196) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (88%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (88%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (72%); RETAILERS (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%)

PERSON: LINDSAY LOHAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



514 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; FOR SOCIAL SECURITY, A BIRTHDAY MAKEOVER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Keep Up With Retirees' Costs

BYLINE: By TED DEUTCH

 BODY:
Representing South Florida in Congress, I regularly hold town meetings with retirees. Inevitably, the first question from the crowd is one I often ask myself, ''Why are folks in Washington lying about Social Security?'' 
There is a bizarre consensus that dismantling this cherished program by raising the retirement age or cutting benefits would somehow fix the federal budget. But that would only inflict harm on the millions of Americans who rely on Social Security to survive.
Instead, Congress should enact gradual changes to ensure that Social Security continues to meet its obligations for future generations, including when my children start to retire in 2063. That is why I recently introduced the Preserving Our Promise to Seniors Act, which would embrace the program and improve its benefits.
The legislation addresses the program's inadequate cost-of-living adjustments, which fail to keep up with the rising cost of seniors' necessities. These adjustments are currently based on the Consumer Price Index -- the average cost of a basket of goods for the American worker.
But the index undercounts things that the American worker spends little on but that eat up a disproportionate share of retirees' income, for example, expensive prescriptions or medical equipment like home oxygen machines.
By creating a separate consumer price index tailored to their needs, retirees wouldn't see the buying power of their Social Security checks shrink in the face of higher Medicare premiums or other expenses.
That is not the only way this legislation would boost those checks. For the first time, income above $106,800 would be used to determine monthly benefits -- and those who pay more into the system would receive higher benefits upon retirement.
This legislation would also close the long-range solvency gap predicted in 2037 by phasing out the $106,800 cap on income subject to the payroll tax. Over seven years, a few more weeks of taxes would be added to the paychecks of the highest earners until they joined the 95 percent of Americans who already contribute year-round.
My constituents who rely on Social Security after a lifetime of hard work are a testament to the wisdom of our nation's most successful domestic program. In an era of disappearing pensions, declining home values and high unemployment, we ought to build on Social Security, not take it apart.
-- TED DEUTCH, Democratic congressman from Florida

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); MEDICARE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); COST OF LIVING (73%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (67%); HOME PRICES (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); CORPORATE TAX (62%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



515 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: Nonprofit Fund Faces Questions About Conflicts and Selection Procedures

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
In late July, the Social Innovation Fund, a new $50 million federal program aimed at financing the replication of nonprofit programs that work, made its first grants.
But what was supposed to have been an emblem of the administration's commitment to nonprofit groups has become instead a messy controversy over potential conflicts of interest and the process used to select the grantees.
Several of the 48 independent reviewers who vetted the initial 54 applications for the grants were surprised by some of the winners because they had awarded them mediocre scores.
Critics noted that the executive director of the fund, Paul Carttar, had worked at New Profit Inc., a nonprofit group that helps promising social programs. New Profit Inc. received a $5 million grant from the fund. 
Similarly, Patrick Corvington, the official who oversees the Corporation for National and Community Service, where the fund resides, previously worked for a foundation that financed a program operated by the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, better known as LISC. The foundation won a $4.2 million grant.
Marta Urquilla, senior adviser to the fund, said Mr. Carttar and Mr. Corvington played no role in selecting the winners. ''We knew the things people are saying now would be said,'' Ms. Urquilla said, ''and so we made sure each application got its fair chance and stood on its own merits.''
But the fund has not disclosed who reviewed the grants -- or who applied for them or the ratings the applicants received, information that often is provided by many other government agencies that make grants.
In soliciting applications, the fund published a detailed set of criteria it would use to evaluate them, but the process by which they would be vetted was unclear. Last week, it disclosed more information about the procedures, including that the applications went through four stages, as well as the number of organizations culled after each.
''The bare minimum would be to release the names of the peer reviewers, the names of the applicants and the score they each received,'' said Dean Zerbe, a former tax counsel to Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican who has persistently scrutinized the Corporation for National and Community Service's grants and programs.
The fund was created with the passage of the SERVE America Act last year and quickly became one of the hottest topics for discussion in the nonprofit sector, which saw it as a means of getting government financing for young but promising programs at a time when the economy has crippled much fund-raising and hobbled many endowments.
The 11 winners effectively serve as conduits to channel the grant money to other nonprofit organizations that operate successful programs that can be expanded to serve more people in more areas. The winners must match the government's money, which also must be matched by the final recipients, potentially trebling the fund's financial effect.
The broader goal, Ms. Urquilla said, is to develop a network of intermediaries like the grant winners that can identify promising programs and connect them to donors and other sources of financing to allow them to expand.
The criticism has led the fund to decide to publish redacted versions of the winning applications in the coming weeks, together with the ratings they were given by various panels and how those compare with applications that did not win. ''We fully embrace open government and the trend toward greater transparency,'' Ms. Urquilla said. ''We just want to make sure we do it in a deliberative and responsive way.''
The disclosures may not satisfy the critics, though.
Ruth McCambridge, editor of the Nonprofit Quarterly magazine, said that she may file a request for all the applications under the Freedom of Information Act. ''This is supposed to be a learning process,'' Ms. McCambridge said. ''That's the way the people at the fund have billed it, and applicants for the next round of funding, if there is one, might find it useful to see what didn't work the first time around.''
She questioned why the fund would not release the names of the applicants or the peer reviewers and why it asked the reviewers to shred their work when it was finished.
Steven Goldberg, one of the reviewers, a consultant and author of ''Billions of Drops in Millions of Buckets: Why Philanthropy Doesn't Advance Social Progress,'' said he had no problem with destroying the paperwork related to the review -- ''as a lapsed lawyer, I can see that you don't want people to be looking too much at how the sausage gets made''-- but thought it would be a good idea to publish the names of the reviewers and applicants.
''My impression over all is that it was a very conscientiously designed and managed process, and they probably overcompensated to make sure it's all done scientifically,'' said Mr. Goldberg, who on Friday wrote a lengthy riposte to Nonprofit Quarterly's coverage of the issue.
Other reviewers, though, questioned the secrecy surrounding the selection process, particularly since it was being imposed by an administration that has pledged to greatly increase transparency.
''This is not a private, grant-making institution, it's the federal government,'' said Paul C. Light, a professor at New York University who has served as a reviewer for other federal grants and contracts.
Mr. Light, who aired his concerns on Thursday in his column on the Washington Post's Web site, said in an interview that his group of reviewers had rated one of the winning organizations as ''weak and unresponsive,'' the lowest rating possible. He said the application contained typos and grammatical errors, lacked data needed to assess it and proposed using a substantial amount of money to build its own capacity to administer the grant it was seeking.
''I was very concerned about the potential impact of giving an applicant the bottom rating because I believed it would be a death knell,'' he said. ''I got the message from our liaison with the fund that these ratings were a key input and potentially determinative.''
Yet that organization won a grant.
Two reviewers who would speak only on the condition of anonymity -- the nonprofit world has its own code of silence that keeps insiders from expressing negative opinions -- said that organization was New Profit, a Boston-based organization that supports a number of high-profile programs like KickStart and iMentor. Mr. Carttar, the fund's executive director, worked for New Profit before joining the government. Ms. Urquilla said Mr. Carttar had ''played no role whatsoever in the decision on any of the grantees.''
For its part, New Profit said it was aware that its application may raise conflict-of-interest questions. ''If any of us see Paul at a conference, we would wave from across the room, but we didn't speak to him,'' said Kim Syman, a managing director.
The fund owes its existence at least in part to New Profit, which in 2007 put together a coalition of nonprofit groups called America Forward to advocate for, among other things, the creation of a federal fund.
With New Profit acting as its agent, America Forward spent $67,000 in 2008 and 2009 lobbying for the creation of the fund and an additional $60,000 on lobbying in the first six months of this year, according to records provided by Nonprofit Quarterly.
Ms. Syman said New Profit's name appears on the lobbying reports because America Forward was not a legal entity, but that the two organizations were ''functionally pretty separate.''
''We don't feel we had an advantage and, if anything, thought we would have a disadvantage because we were so concerned about the perception of closeness,'' Ms. Symon said. ''We felt like we had to be really competitive.''
For that reason, she said, New Profit worked hard on its application. ''We spent a lot of time and energy doing it in the first place, and there were times when that turned out not to have been enough,'' she said. ''We were impressed by the level of rigor in the review process, which was very thorough and complete.''
Ms. Urquilla did not discuss any applicant by name. She said that each application was reviewed by two peer review panels in the initial phase, and that three were given ''excellent'' ratings by one panel and ''weak and unresponsive'' ratings from the other.
Those applicants passed on to the second phase, together with the issues raised by the panel that had concerns about them.
''We were not going to assume that the opinion of one panel trumped the opinion of another,'' she said. ''Eliminating those proposals in the first phase could have put the competition in the position of eliminating what might have been the most creative and innovative programs.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 29, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about criticism of the grant process for a new $50 million federal program called the Social Innovation Fund misspelled the surname of the managing director for New Profit Inc., a nonprofit group that received a $5 million grant. She is Kim Syman, not Symon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patrick Corvington, head of the Corporation for National and Community Service, at an event with Michelle Obama in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (93%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); EXECUTIVES (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%)

ORGANIZATION: CORP FOR NATIONAL & COMMUNITY SERVICE (83%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (59%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2010



516 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: 'View With Favor'

BYLINE: By TOM SEGEV. 
Tom Segev's new book, ''Simon Wiesenthal: The Life and Legends,'' will be published next month.

 BODY:
THE BALFOUR DECLARATION
The Origins of the Arab-Israeli Conflict
By Jonathan Schneer
Illustrated. 432 pp. Random House. $30
On November 2, 1917, the British government expressed its sympathy with Jewish Zionist aspirations and announced that it would use its ''best endeavors'' to facilitate ''the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people.'' The announcement came in a letter from Foreign Secretary Arthur James Balfour to Lord Rothschild, the unofficial leader of the British Jewish community. The Balfour declaration became the diplomatic foundation stone of the state of Israel; it is considered the original sin by Israel's opponents.
In this comprehensive study, richly documented by diplomatic correspondence, Jonathan Schneer concludes that the famous declaration seems to have just missed the sidetrack of history: in contrast to a common myth, Britain's support for Zionism was not the result of an inevitable process. In fact, as Schneer reveals, shortly after Balfour's promise to the Jews, the British government offered the Ottoman Empire the opportunity to keep Palestine and to continue to fly the Turkish flag over it. 
Schneer, a professor at Georgia Tech's School of History, Technology and Society, is a talented writer. Describing the British Empire's haughtiness, he takes his readers inside the Foreign Office in Whitehall, walks them along the marble floors and among the columns, pointing out the ''grand red-carpeted staircase outlined by polished gleaming banisters, arched windows, glowing chandeliers and elaborately patterned ceilings and walls.'' Schneer says about the men who worked there that ''when it came to measuring themselves against visitors, no matter how distinguished and no matter where from, they suffered few insecurities.''
Chaim Weizmann, the leading spokesman for Zionism in Britain, must have felt ill at ease when he entered those awesome corridors of power. A Russian-born chemist, he began to solicit support among the British soon after he settled in Manchester in 1904. He could hardly speak English in those days: his first contacts with British officials were conducted in French. But if he was taken aback by the snobbery and coolness that awaited him at Whitehall, he made sure to conceal his uneasiness, acting as if he commanded an almost omnipotent power: world Jewry. The British believed he did.
Obviously there was no ''Jewish power'' controlling world affairs, but Weizmann successfully pretended that the Jews were in fact turning the wheels of history. For once, the anti-Semitic image of the Jews proved useful -- they were believed to be so maliciously dangerous that one would do best to acquire them as allies rather than as enemies.
Beginning in 1916, the British hoped that in exchange for their support of Zionism ''the Jews'' would help to finance the growing expenses of the Great War, which at that time was not going very well for Britain. More important, policy makers in the Foreign Office believed that Jews could persuade the United States to join the war. In this sense, as Schneer points out, the decision to issue the Balfour declaration ''was based upon a misconception.''
But fear of the Jews was only one part of the story. The other part, which Schneer neglects to explore, was the genuine admiration many of Britain's leaders, including Prime Minister David Lloyd George and Balfour himself, felt for the Jews and their history. These men were deeply religious Christian Zionists. They had grown up on the Bible; the Holy Land was their spiritual home. Modern Zionism, they believed, would fulfill a divine promise and resettle the Jews in the land of their ancient fathers.
As part of this context, Schneer expertly analyzes the passionate and fascinating controversy between non-Zionist and Zionist Jews that preceded the Balfour declaration. The Zionists spoke in the name of Jewish nationhood; their Jewish opponents denied that Jews even constituted a separate nation.
The Balfour declaration used deliberately vague language. The term ''national home'' was chosen in order to minimize the Zionist dream, that is, to make Palestine an actual Jewish state. The Arabs, whose ''civil and religious'' (not national and political) rights were not to be prejudiced, as the declaration put it, were referred to only as ''existing non-Jewish communities.''
According to Schneer, the Arabs were as invisible to the early Zionists as Africans had been to Boers in South Africa, or Indians to the French and English colonists in North America. But in fact, some of the first Zionists were well aware of the Arabs' vehement objection to their national aspirations. As early as 1899, Theodore Herzl himself, the father of political Zionism, corresponded with the Arab mayor of Jerusalem, Yusuf Dia al-Khalidi, who urged him to find a national home for the Jews somewhere else in the world. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict seems to have had its origins at the very beginning of Zionism.
Many of the British diplomatic papers Schneer examines were brilliantly written. At times it seems that these dispatches and reports, rather than analyses of foreign policy, were the exercises of frustrated poets and writers, educated at Eton and Oxford, who hoped for posterity in the Public Record Office. Much of what they wrote led nowhere, though Schneer elaborates on their maneuvers at great length.
He details, for instance, the correspondence between British officials and the Arabs, as well as a secret diplomatic scheme of 1916 known as the ''Sykes-Picot Agreement,'' which would have partitioned much of the Ottoman Empire, including Palestine, between Britain and France. These initiatives have little significance today, except perhaps with regard to the Arab contention that the British had promised Palestine to the Arabs before they promised it to the Jews. Schneer suggests that the promises given to the Arabs were too vague and contradictory to evaluate. Still, the way he reveals the characters behind the diplomatic papers, bringing them to life, makes his book particularly enjoyable.
Take Britain's magnificent, if abortive, effort to detach the Ottoman Empire from the Central Powers. The idea was to orchestrate what would today be called regime change in Turkey. The new rulers would then make a separate peace with Britain, retain Palestine and get a handsome bribe for themselves -- millions of American dollars. The central figure in this drama was a man named Basil Zaharoff, later Sir Basil, an Ottoman-born arms dealer and self-made diplomat whose corruption, pomposity and eccentricity British policy makers could not resist.
The Balfour declaration thus finds its place among a multitude of fruitless schemes and indulgent fantasies, except, of course, that in this case, surprisingly, the British by and large kept their word. For at least two decades they allowed the Zionist movement to bring hundreds of thousands of Jewish immigrants into Palestine, and these new arrivals set up hundreds of settlements including several towns, as well as the political, economic, military and cultural infrastructure of the future state of Israel. But if Israel's existence originated with the British, so did the Palestinians' tragedy. The Balfour declaration was only the opening chapter of a still unfinished story.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The only known surviving handwritten draft of the Balfour declaration. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM SOTHEBYS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (73%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (70%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (70%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); TURKEY (79%); ENGLAND (73%); UNITED STATES (70%)

TITLE: Balfour Declaration: The Origins of the Arab-Israeli Conflict, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



517 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: The Summer That Ended All Summers

BYLINE: By JOSH WEIL. 
Josh Weil is the author of the novella collection ''The New Valley.''

 BODY:
Leverett, Mass.
No one -- not the doctor in Cairo with his egret-feather hair and bad-news eyes; not the spinal surgeon, with his broad Egyptian shoulders and eagerness for the knife -- knew how it happened. It might have started during Ramadan, out by the pyramids, on a spine-rattling, bareback gallop. It might have happened 13,000 feet up in the Alpine swamps between Uganda and Congo, as I leapt from tussock to tussock with 50 pounds of gear on my back.
But whatever caused the disc to burst and splatter against my spinal nerve, it brought the endless summer of heat and adventure that I had found while living in Northern Africa for a year suddenly, surely, to an end.
Ever since I was a kid, I'd lived for summer -- and, until a few years ago, sharing it with my older brother was what brought summer to life. We used to crouch on the bank of the Deerfield River where it wound south of Vermont, taking turns blowing up our Kmart raft, bulge-cheeked and frog-eyed, our mouths on the inflation valves, dizzy and sputtering with laughter. We'd buckle on bike helmets, paddle into the rapids and spill. 
If you've ever been hurled head-first into white water, you know the feeling: your world upturned, your hold on it spun loose, the current pitching you forward so fast you struggle to grasp what has happened to time. When you come up to breathe, the air is pure exhilaration.
As we got older, we hunted harder and farther for that feeling. The summer I turned 16 we found it in England, on the shoulder of the M-1 freeway -- where we stood all grins and thumbs -- when an honest-to-God Madonna impersonator pulled over, picked us up, slid her convertible's top down and headed for Scotland, singing into the wind.
That night, we climbed a graveyard fence, spread out our sleeping bags and watched the rising moon's pale light paint the valley below. A week after that, we woke to the hot breath of horses, their muzzles lipping our hair. We'd bedded down in a dark field only to find in the morning that it was a paddock. But there they were, and there we were, and so we rode them -- bareback, beside the highway, whooping till we fell off.
We slept under ponchos, on the cliffs of Dover, inside a tool shed in France, beneath olive trees in Spain. We ate from fruit trees and out of fields, followed the scent of fresh-baked bread, washed our faces in fountains. In Paris, we got kicked out of a restroom for scrubbing in the sinks. We shrugged -- so long City of Light! -- and lit out wet-headed.
After that, every summer found us somewhere together: in Tanzania, stalking along the banks of the Ruaha River, listening to the huffing of buffaloes or splashing naked into a snow-melt lake in Montana, just the two of us 10,000 feet up in a world of wilderness.
Until one day, eight years ago, we climbed down from the Bitterroot Mountains and out of all that forever. That year, before we could eat our end-of-the-hike steak dinner -- before we could do anything -- we had to find a pay phone. Driving in search of one, I watched my brother's eyes fill with the same urgency he'd felt when night was falling and we needed a place to bed down. And, when he finally got his fiancee on the line, I saw the same relief. In a year he was married. In another he was a father.
From then on, I broke free of regular life on my own. Which is how I found myself beneath a bridge in rural Slovakia, scrubbing with a soapy bandanna while gypsy horse carts clattered above my head. I stood listening. The voices sounded strange -- not because they were speaking a language I didn't understand, but because it had been days since I'd heard a human voice that close.
That summer, I walked across great swaths of Eastern Europe -- Bohemia, Moravia, the Tatra Mountains and the high pastures of the Carpathians. At dusk, I would slip into a secluded field or a dark stand of trees to pitch my tent. By dawn, I would be gone.
Have you ever passed through a place with the knowledge that only the fields and forests will ever know you were there? Have you ever emerged from morning fog onto the cobblestone street of an ancient town and felt the stares of gypsy children waking in the square? Have you ever wondered how a ghost feels, wandering, invisible, through the world? I'll tell you: free. Incomparably, immeasurably, free.
Three years after that summer in Slovakia, 30 years old and back in the States, I lay on the floor in my brother's house, where I was convalescing. Shoulders on a yoga mat, hips raised, I slowly extended first one leg, then the other. Above me, my brother's 3 1/2-year-old daughter stood watching.
''Who are you trying to kick?'' she said.
''I'm not,'' I said.
She bobbed and weaved in slow-motion around my slow feet.
''I'm trying to get strong,'' I told her.
''I'm strong,'' she said.
And she lay down beside me, lifted her legs, began mimicking my moves. She made her face into an exaggerated grimace, gritting her teeth.
''See,'' she said, ''I'm stronger than you.''
It was early June, the beginning of my summer of surgeons, my mother driving me from doctor to doctor. I had just been told I would never hike again.
We went to the YMCA every week -- me trying to regain my strength with lung-aching laps, my brother and niece splashing around in the kiddie pool. My brother kept bemoaning the big shoulders he'd lost along with the adventures that had built them. But, forced for the first summer of my life to stay home (or as close to a home as I ever had), forced to stay still, I could hear the thrill in his daughter's shrieks, the joy in his low chuckle; I could see pleasure bloom on his face as he watched his wife gather black-eyed Susans from the flower beds. And I understood for the first time how my May-to-September hunt for freedom had cut me off from all the other things that summer could be.
Look: There's my niece between the rows of cherry tomatoes, her hair like a dandelion puff, a pint basket in her hands. Beside her, my brother fills it. Later, at the kitchen sink, my sister-in-law will wash the fruit. My brother will pass behind her. Reaching back, she will slip one between his lips. I know she will because all that summer, that was how it was. And I, looking in, watched.
By the end of August, I had healed enough to walk the family dog down by the river. I remember one time in particular: returning up the road toward the scent of grilling that came from my brother's house. When I got there, nobody was outside.
I stood with the dog for a while, looking at the place where a Slip 'N Slide had been. My brother had let the plastic slide sit too long and now that he had taken it up, it had left its mark: a pale path of depleted grass running through the lawn all the way to the edge of the woods. Through the kitchen windows I could hear them -- my brother, his daughter, his wife. Down there at the end of the trail, the trees were dark, tempting, unexplored.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RIVERS (72%); RAMADAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%) VERMONT, USA (55%) EGYPT (92%); UGANDA (88%); ENGLAND (68%); FRANCE (65%); NORTHERN AFRICA (58%); AFRICA (57%); UNITED STATES (55%); SCOTLAND (53%); SPAIN (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



518 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SLIPSTREAM; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Fixing A World That Fosters Fat

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
WHY are Americans getting fatter and fatter? The simple explanation is that we eat too much junk food and spend too much time in front of screens -- be they television, phone or computer -- to burn off all those empty calories.
One handy prescription for healthier lives is behavior modification. If people only ate more fresh produce. (Thank you, Michael Pollan.) If only children exercised more. (Ditto, Michelle Obama.)
Unfortunately, behavior changes won't work on their own without seismic societal shifts, health experts say, because eating too much and exercising too little are merely symptoms of a much larger malady. The real problem is a landscape littered with inexpensive fast-food meals; saturation advertising for fatty, sugary products; inner cities that lack supermarkets; and unhealthy, high-stress workplaces.
In other words: it's the environment, stupid. 
''Everyone knows that you shouldn't eat junk food and you should exercise,'' says Kelly D. Brownell, the director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale. ''But the environment makes it so difficult that fewer people can do these things, and then you have a public health catastrophe.''
Dr. Brownell, who has a doctorate in psychology, is among a number of leading researchers who are proposing large-scale changes to food pricing, advertising and availability, all in the hope of creating an environment conducive to healthier diet and exercise choices.
To that end, health researchers are grappling with how to fix systems that are the root causes of obesity, says Dee W. Edington, the director of the Health Management Research Center at the University of Michigan.
''If you take a changed person and put them in the same environment, they are going to go back to the old behaviors,'' says Dr. Edington, who has a doctorate in physical education. ''If you change the culture and the environment first, then you can go back into a healthy environment and, when you get change, it sticks.''
Indeed, despite individual efforts by some states to tax soda pop, promote farm stands, require healthier school lunches or mandate calorie information in chain restaurants, obesity rates in the United States are growing. An estimated 72.5 million adults in the United States are obese, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Last year, about 27 percent of adults said they were obese, compared with about 20 percent in 2000, as reported in a C.D.C. study published this month. And, the report said, obesity may cost the medical system as much as $147 billion annually.
So what kind of disruptive changes might help nudge Americans into healthier routines? Equalizing food pricing, for one.
Fast-food restaurants can charge lower prices for value meals of hamburgers and French fries than for salad because the government subsidizes the corn and soybeans used for animal feed and vegetable oil, says Barry Popkin, a professor of nutrition at the Gillings School of Public Health at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
''We have made it more expensive to eat healthy in a very big way,'' says Dr. Popkin, who has a doctorate in agricultural economics and is the author of a book called ''The World Is Fat: The Fads, Trends, Policies and Products That Are Fattening the Human Race.''
The inflation-adjusted price of a McDonald's quarter-pounder with cheese, for example, fell 5.44 percent from 1990 to 2007, according to an article on the economics of child obesity published in the journal Health Affairs. But the inflation-adjusted price of fruit and vegetables, which are not subject to federal largess, rose 17 percent just from 1997 to 2003, the study said. Cutting agricultural subsidies would have a big impact on people's eating habits, says Dr. Popkin.
''If we cut the subsidy on whole milk and made it cheaper only to drink low-fat milk,'' he says, ''people would switch to it and it would save a lot of calories.''
Health experts are also looking to the private sector. On-site fitness centers and vending machines that sell good-for-you snacks are practical workplace innovations that many companies have instituted.
On a more philosophical level, innovative companies are training managers not to burn out employees by overworking them, says Dr. Edington of the University of Michigan.
''Stress comes up. It can lead to overeating and obesity,'' Dr. Edington says. At companies that see employee health as a renewable resource, he adds, managers encourage employees to go home on time so they can spend more time with their families, communities or favorite activities. ''Instead of going home with an empty tank, you can go home with the energy that we gave you by the way we run our business,'' he says.
CORPORATE-SECTOR efforts aren't entirely altruistic. It's less expensive for businesses to keep healthy workers healthy than to cover the medical costs of obesity and related problems like diabetes. For employees at I.B.M. and their families, for example, the annual medical claim for an obese adult or child costs about double that of a non-obese adult or child, says Martin J. Sepulveda, I.B.M.'s vice president for integrated health services.
I.B.M. has been promoting wellness for employees since the 1980s. But in 2008, it began offering a new program, the Children's Health Rebate, to encourage employees to increase their at-home family dinners, their servings of fruits and vegetables, and their physical activities, as well as to reduce their children's television and computer time.
In addition to helping prevent obesity in children, Mr. Sepulveda says, the program is aimed at employees who might neglect to exercise on their own but would willingly participate as part of a family project. Each family that completes the program receives $150.
All of these ideas sound promising. But the architecture of obesity is so entrenched that policy makers, companies, communities, families and individuals will need to undertake a variety of efforts to displace and replace it, says Alan Lyles, a professor at the School of Health and Human Services at the University of Baltimore.
And American efforts can seem piecemeal compared with those in Britain, where the government has undertaken a multipronged national attack, requiring changes in schools, health services and the food industry.
Britain now places restrictions on advertising fatty, sugary and salty foods during children's shows, for example. And by 2011, cooking classes will be mandatory for all 11- to 14-year-old students in the nation. The hope is to teach a generation of children who grew up on prepared foods how to cook healthy meals, and perhaps to make eating at home -- instead of at the local fried fish-and-chips shop -- the default option.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID PLUNKERT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIETING (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); OBESITY (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (87%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); BARIATRICS (77%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (76%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (76%); CHILDREN (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); SOFT DRINKS (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



519 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: In Striking Shift, Investors Flee Stock Market

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Renewed economic uncertainty is testing Americans' generation-long love affair with the stock market.
Investors withdrew a staggering $33.12 billion from domestic stock market mutual funds in the first seven months of this year, according to the Investment Company Institute, the mutual fund industry trade group. Now many are choosing investments they deem safer, like bonds.
If that pace continues, more money will be pulled out of these mutual funds in 2010 than in any year since the 1980s, with the exception of 2008, when the global financial crisis peaked.
Small investors are ''losing their appetite for risk,'' a Credit Suisse analyst, Doug Cliggott, said in a report to investors on Friday. 
One of the phenomena of the last several decades has been the rise of the individual investor. As Americans have become more responsible for their own retirement, they have poured money into stocks with such faith that half of the country's households now own shares directly or through mutual funds, which are by far the most popular way Americans invest in stocks. So the turnabout is striking.
So is the timing. After past recessions, ordinary investors have typically regained their enthusiasm for stocks, hoping to profit as the economy recovered. This time, even as corporate earnings have improved, Americans have become more guarded with their investments.
''At this stage in the economic cycle, $10 to $20 billion would normally be flowing into domestic equity funds'' rather than the billions that are flowing out, said Brian K. Reid, chief economist of the investment institute. He added, ''This is very unusual.''
The notion that stocks tend to be safe and profitable investments over time seems to have been dented in much the same way that a decline in home values and in job stability the last few years has altered Americans' sense of financial security.
It may take many years before it is clear whether this becomes a long-term shift in psychology. After technology and dot-com shares crashed in the early 2000s, for example, investors were quick to re-enter the stock market. Yet bigger economic calamities like the Great Depression affected people's attitudes toward money for decades.
For now, though, mixed economic data is presenting a picture of an economy that is recovering feebly from recession.
''For a lot of ordinary people, the economic recovery does not feel real,'' said Loren Fox, a senior analyst at Strategic Insight, a New York research and data firm. ''People are not going to rush toward the stock market on a sustained basis until they feel more confident of employment growth and the sustainability of the economic recovery.''
One investor who has restructured his portfolio is Gary Olsen, 51, from Dallas. Over the past four years, he has adjusted the proportion of his investments from 65 percent equities and 35 percent bonds so that the $1.1 million he has invested is now evenly balanced.
He had worked as a portfolio liquidity manager for the local Federal Home Loan Bank and retired four years ago.
''Like everyone, I lost'' during the recent market declines, he said. ''I needed to have a more conservative allocation.''
To be sure, a lot of money is still flowing into the stock market from small investors, pension funds and other big institutional investors. But ordinary investors are reallocating their 401(k) retirement plans, according to Hewitt Associates, a consulting firm that tracks pension plans.
Until two years ago, 70 percent of the money in 401(k) accounts it tracks was invested in stock funds; that proportion fell to 49 percent by the start of 2009 as people rebalanced their portfolios toward bond investments following the financial crisis in the fall of 2008. It is now back at 57 percent, but almost all of that can be attributed to the rising price of stocks in recent years. People are still staying with bonds.
Another force at work is the aging of the baby-boomer generation. As they approach retirement, Americans are shifting some of their investments away from stocks to provide regular guaranteed income for the years when they are no longer working.
And the flight from stocks may also be driven by households that are no longer able to tap into home equity for cash and may simply need the money to pay for ordinary expenses.
On Friday, Fidelity Investments reported that a record number of people took so-called hardship withdrawals from their retirement accounts in the second quarter. These are early withdrawals intended to pay for needs like medical expenses.
According to the Investment Company Institute, which surveys 4,000 households annually, the appetite for stock market risk among American investors of all ages has been declining steadily since it peaked around 2001, and the change is most pronounced in the under-35 age group.
For a few months at the start of this year, things were looking up for stock market investing. Optimistic about growth, investors were again putting their money into stocks. In March and April, when the stock market rose 8 percent, $8.1 billion flowed into domestic stock mutual funds.
But then came a grim reassessment of America's economic prospects as unemployment remained stubbornly high and private sector job growth refused to take off.
Investors' nerves were also frayed by the ''flash crash'' on May 6, when the Dow Jones industrial index fell 600 points in a matter of minutes. The authorities still do not know why.
Investors pulled $19.1 billion from domestic equity funds in May, the largest outflow since the height of the financial crisis in October 2008.
Over all, investors pulled $151.4 billion out of stock market mutual funds in 2008. But at that time the market was tanking in shocking fashion. The surprise this time around is that Americans are withdrawing money even when share prices are rallying.
The stock market rose 7 percent last month as corporate profits began rebounding, but even that increase was not enough to tempt ordinary investors. Instead, they withdrew $14.67 billion from domestic stock market mutual funds in July, according to the investment institute's estimates, the third straight month of withdrawals.
A big beneficiary has been bond funds, which offer regular fixed interest payments.
As investors pulled billions out of stocks, they plowed $185.31 billion into bond mutual funds in the first seven months of this year, and total bond fund investments for the year are on track to approach the record set in 2009.
Charles Biderman, chief executive of TrimTabs, a funds researcher, said it was no wonder people were putting their money in bonds given the dismal performance of equities over the past decade. The Dow Jones industrial average started the decade around 11,500 but closed on Friday at 10,213. ''People have lost a lot of money over the last 10 years in the stock market, while there has been a bull market in bonds,'' he said. ''In the financial markets, there is one truism: flow follows performance.''
Ross Williams, 59, a community consultant from Grand Rapids, Minn., began to take profits from his stock funds when the market started to recover last year and invested the money in short-term bonds, afraid that stocks would again drop.
''We have a very volatile market, so we should be in bonds in case it goes down again,'' he said. ''If the market is moving up, I realized we should be taking this money and putting it into something more safe rather than leaving it at risk.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Flight to Safety: In the last few years, investors have been pulling their money out of stocks
 and putting more in the relative safety of bonds.(Source: Investment Company Institute) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (61%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



520 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; WHEELS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: THE BLOG: Dream Cruise Still Skips Detroit

BYLINE: By MARY M. CHAPMAN

 BODY:
In southeastern Michigan, the third Saturday of August is reserved for car worship. Lawns go unmowed and errands are postponed as some 1.5 million people descend on one of the Detroit area's best-known thoroughfares, Woodward Avenue, for an ad hoc parade of vintage automobiles that pays tribute to Detroit's glory days.
Called the Woodward Dream Cruise, the 16-mile-long party is a source of pride for many residents of the metropolitan area. In a region long riven by racial strife, the Dream Cruise - which takes place on Saturday for the 16th year - is a unifying love-in preceded by several days of polishing, preening and parking lot car talk.
But one thing remains missing from the Dream Cruise: Detroit itself. 
The event, often called the nation's largest single-day celebration of classic-car culture, wends through a chain of suburbs but stops short of the city whose name is synonymous with the American auto industry. The cruise's avoidance of the Motor City seems odd to some, alienating to others.
Perhaps because the cruise remains a suburban affair, some black car enthusiasts skip it altogether, choosing to show off their classic rides elsewhere.
''It's not a knock against the Dream Cruise per se,'' said Derrick Johnson, an out-of-a-job Detroit construction worker who went to the event just once. He prefers to gather with his car buddies in a parking lot on Detroit's east side. ''We just feel a little bit more comfortable doing this,'' he said, rather than venturing into the suburbs.
Black workers have played a large role in automaking for almost as long as the industry existed. Henry Ford's assembly line welcomed laborers from the South, spurring the migration that made Detroit a black-majority city in the 1970s. Relatively generous wages, later enhanced with union benefits, generated upward mobility for blacks. The assembly line was one of the few places here where black and white residents mixed regularly, and in Michigan, a shared love of cars transcends racial, ethnic and religious boundaries.
But when it comes to celebrating Detroit's best-known products, the partygoers do not seem particularly diverse.
Some longtime residents suggest that the issue isn't that the Dream Cruise is exclusionary, but that Eight Mile Road, the northern border of Detroit and the line that separates urban Wayne County from suburban Oakland and Macomb Counties, remains a social barrier in the minds of many. South of Eight Mile - made famous around the world by the 2002 Eminem film - most of the population is black; above it, blacks are a distinct minority. Racial tensions, inflamed by the devastating Detroit riots of 1967, still surface.
''The area's politics are historical,'' said William R. Chapin, president of the Automotive Hall of Fame in suburban Dearborn. ''Still, plenty of people in town feel like the Woodward cruise should extend to Detroit.''
There are no plans to make such a change, although the prospect has been discussed many times, said Tony Michaels, executive director of the Woodward Dream Cruise.
He said the route, which starts at Nine Mile Road in the community of Ferndale, had been established with nostalgia in mind. ''It was a grass-roots idea that people would come out and hit the Woodward corridor like they used to, where all the restaurants and drive-ins were,'' Mr. Michaels added.
The Dream Cruise extends into Pontiac, a city that is about half black. That city is represented on the board of the Dream Cruise by the Rev. Douglas Jones, the only black director. He said the fact that the event skipped Detroit had not gone unnoticed.
''We just couldn't figure out a way to cover the vacant stretches, and then there was the cost of police,'' he explained, alluding to forlorn sections of Woodward Avenue inside the city proper.
Still, Mr. Jones said the Dream Cruise in its early years had held some events at the state fairgrounds in Detroit, just south of Eight Mile Road. Although the cruise does not enter the city, he characterized the event as an inclusive one, saying the board had always encouraged participation from all car clubs, including those with predominantly black members.
One such club is Capitol City Entourage of Lansing, Mich. One of the club's founders, Charles Watts, checked out the Dream Cruise last year, driving his 2009 white-over-red Mercury Grand Marquis with oversize wheels. He said he enjoyed rubbing shoulders with fellow car enthusiasts and might attend again this Saturday. But to his club, the main event of the year is the African-American Parade in Lansing.
''We like to support our culture and show that we like cars, too,'' said Mr. Watts, whose fellow club members favor old-school rides like the Chevy Monte Carlo and Caprice, the Pontiac Grand Prix and the Ford Crown Victoria.
The Dream Cruise has grown remarkably from its modest start as a fund-raiser for a suburban children's soccer field. According to the organizers, some 40,000 vintage cars now participate, benefiting about 100 charities and pumping $56 million into the local economy.
Notwithstanding the region's historically suspicious, and sometimes acrimonious, politics, blacks and Latinos widely view the Dream Cruise as a favorable, nonthreatening event, even if they don't attend, said Ron Scott, a former autoworker.
''It's not a question of whether black people mind crossing Eight Mile, because many do,'' said Mr. Scott, now a community organizer in Detroit who has helped to set up small car clubs. ''It's just the fraternity and exchange of culture that you get with these other activities that allows enjoyment of more than just the car. It's not really that we don't feel welcome.''
In fact, he added, many blacks participate in both the Cruise and in predominantly black gatherings of enthusiasts.
Even if the Dream Cruise never enters Detroit, Mr. Scott said that involving more blacks would be a smart economic move.
''It's amazing that this hasn't happened in the past, if only because of what it would do to commerce,'' he said. ''Any young person who spends $4,000 on spinning wheels, these are people who are working or who own businesses and would love to support something like this.''
Detroit's mayor, Dave Bing, said bringing the Dream Cruise into Detroit would help to foster regional unity. In response to a question, he said through a spokesman: ''Any celebration of the auto industry is incomplete without the city and the people that designed and manufactured the great vehicles that are part of this event. We would welcome the Dream Cruise down Woodward into the heart of Detroit. It would represent another important step in cooperation on a regional scale.''
Michael Farrow, president of the Farrow Group, a Detroit-based demolition firm, speculated that the cruise's presence in Detroit would increase sponsorships. ''There has to be some hidden agenda why it doesn't cross Eight Mile,'' said Mr. Farrow, an African-American who owns a black 1962 Chevrolet Impala convertible. ''I don't hear anybody telling us to come on down.''
Other automotive celebrations inside the city have come and gone.
With the help of Robert A. Lutz, who retired this year as vice chairman of General Motors, Marvin Towns, an African-American movie producer and car collector, in 2002 established the Concours d'Elegance at Cranbrook, held at the Cranbrook Academy of Art in the suburb of Bloomfield Hills. Mr. Towns did this, he said, because he did not see enough diversity at the Meadow Brook Concours d'Elegance that took place on the campus of Oakland University in Rochester Hills.
Mr. Towns said that after the Cranbrook event ran out of money in 2006, he was asked by Kwame Kilpatrick, who was then mayor, to ''do something in Detroit.'' So Mr. Towns set up a two-day car exhibition downtown, the Detroit Festival of Speed and Style, the week after the Dream Cruise. It took place in 2007-8.
''It was about African-Americans and other people of color being able to get on a city bus and go to a cool car show,'' Mr. Towns said.
There have been other efforts. Alan Miller, who until 2000 was the diversity public relations manager for Chrysler, established an event called Motor City Cruising, held concurrent with the Woodward Dream Cruise, at Fort Wayne, a historic site in southwest Detroit. The event took place in 2003-4 until it, too, ran out of cash.
''African-Americans have a certain affinity for American cars, so we had the Deuce and Quarters'' - slang for the Buick Electra 225 - ''and lots of old Fords and Chevys,'' Mr. Miller said.
Mr. Michaels, the Dream Cruise director, said he had heard no complaints about a lack of diversity. ''The magic of the Dream Cruise is that it's all about everybody,'' he said. ''It's an absolutely welcoming event.''
That sentiment was echoed by Mr. Towns, who said he loved the Dream Cruise.
''Real car people don't care about color,'' he said. ''Grease is grease.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OVERDUE ACCLAIM: Even Edsels are celebrities along Woodward. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL STENQUIST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (73%); RELIGION (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



521 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1896 words

HEADLINE: Mormons On a Mission

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
SALT LAKE CITY
AT 3:30 in the morning on July 23, 1962, the Mormon Tabernacle Choir gathered at the airport here for a flight to a military base in the Black Hills of South Dakota. Preparations for a now nearly forgotten salvo of the cold war, called Operation Telstar, were under way.
It was time to sing.
The 360-member choir, the lyrical voice of Mormonism since pioneer days, was on a mission with multiple levels, historians and surviving singers say. They were to be the featured musical anchor later that day for the first international satellite television program -- a blast of American culture and technological prowess aimed at Europe, using a wobbly, 170-pound satellite that had been launched into orbit that month. 
Small stories and large ones were interwoven -- in the off-camera dreams and fears of the singers and organizers and in the on-camera references to the Kremlin and the arms race. A brash, ambitious television station manager from Rapid City, S.D., named William F. Turner, who happened to know some Mormons -- and some Kennedys in the White House -- played a part. Darleen Merrihew, then a 32-year-old alto, was three months pregnant with her fourth child.
And Owen and Helen Clark were preparing for the first-ever performance, scheduled that night back in Salt Lake City, of the Clark Family Singers. The family group, featuring their son Elliott -- then 10 years old, now a soloist for the choir -- was on the program at the tabernacle itself, the building from which the choir, generations earlier, had drawn its name.
Meanwhile, tensions between the United States and the old Soviet Union were about to boil over. In Cuba, the Russians were deploying missiles that summer aimed at the United States, a turn of events that, when discovered in October, would bring the world to the brink of nuclear war in the Cuban Missile Crisis.
But for the choir members, the responsibilities and significance felt even more immense. Through the conservative years of the 1950s, the church had become closer to mainstream American life than probably any period in history, before or since. Now they were riding that wave to a new high, with the choir singing not just for the faith but for the nation itself.
The story of their journey -- included in the DVD portion of a new release commemorating the 100th anniversary of the choir's first recordings -- offers a bracingly different take on early 1960s culture than the one millions of Americans watch each week on the television advertising drama ''Mad Men.'' Glamorous debauchery and cynicism may have underpinned the marketing of floor wax and cigarettes, but earnest yearning and anxiety were twitchingly, poignantly alive then, too.
''We knew we were singing the message of America to the world,'' said Vernie Swenson, 90, who was in the choir and on the platform that day with his wife, Shirley, 87. ''It was an honor beyond anything we'd ever imagined.''
At the foot of Mount Rushmore, with the sculptured heads of presidents in the backdrop, on Telstar's 123rd orbit since its launch, just after noon Mountain Time, the conjunction of technology, geopolitics and religious striving reached its apogee. The entire broadcast lasted about 20 minutes. Of that, the choir filled only about three.
But within the church at least, a chord was struck, deep and resonant and lasting.
''The choir seemed to call up strange echoes among the cliffs -- rich songs of progress, of vast migrations to better lands, of explorers, overtones from the marching pioneers,'' said an article in the church newsletter three months later. But in that spotlight moment, ''there were undertones of evil too,'' the article continued. ''To all the free world and beyond, this feeling that the past was looking down upon us was intensified.''
In telling his part of the story, Mr. Turner, 81, now retired and living in Naples, Fla., still sounded like the fast-talking 33-year-old television executive he was that summer. He worked for a tiny-market, middle-of-nowhere station -- 12,000 working television sets in signal range in the still-wild and empty Dakotas -- but he had an idea and was determined to chase it. The broadcast and its planning had become a major news event.
''I got in touch with the people who had responsibility for the broadcast in New York City and said, 'How about including something from up here in the Black Hills of South Dakota, where history is in the making?' '' Mr. Turner said in a telephone interview. ''They said, 'What did you have in mind?' I said, 'A good friend of mine, his uncle is from Salt Lake City, and he can get the Mormon Tabernacle Choir.' They said, 'How you going to get them there?' I said, 'We've got airplanes.' ''
Mr. Turner, who is not Mormon -- he grew up Roman Catholic in Connecticut -- also had some political juice: he knew President John F. Kennedy through connections he'd made with the Kennedys years earlier while working in New England. Mr. Turner said he used that leverage in arguing for a spot on the Telstar ticket.
The string-pulling worked. Organizers at the three collaborating television networks, NBC, CBS and ABC, approved Mr. Turner's plan, and what choir members recalled as a whirlwind -- less than two weeks from first word about the broadcast to being on the Air Force buses heading for the Rushmore monument -- began.
''We didn't know what was going on at all,'' said Mr. Clark, now 89. He also remembered hearing doubts that morning about whether the technical problems never addressed before in television, like making a Dakotas buffalo herd stampede, live and on cue, before the choir's performance, could be solved. (Dynamite and shotguns did the trick, Mr. Turner said.) ''When they said, 'Now,' we knew it was ready to go,'' Mr. Clark recalled.
Ms. Merrihew, 79, whose son, Paul, was born in January 1963, said the real meaning of the day only emerged for her later.
''At the time, I was just there to sing; only later did I understand it and its importance,'' she said.
Once on the ground in South Dakota, weather was a factor. The two-hour bus ride put the choir in place under a dark and threatening sky. And then, as the singers waited on the platform in their white blouses and dark suits, the rain came down in torrents, drenching them all -- not to mention their sheet music, making it completely unreadable, Ms. Swenson recalled.
But they stood rooted, gripped with the excitement and responsibility of the moment, and when the cue came, they opened with a song that was meant to appeal to the sensibilities of Europe -- ''A Mighty Fortress Is Our God,'' composed in the 1520s by Martin Luther -- followed by the stirring American anthem ''Battle Hymn of the Republic.''
The signal from Mount Rushmore, interspersed with other grainy, politically loaded images of America -- a snippet of a baseball game, a shot of the open border with Canada at Niagara Falls (free of barbed wire and machine guns) and a similar scene of the border with Mexico -- rounded out the broadcast. Voice-over announcers in New York -- their words translated into seven languages -- spoke as hundreds of millions of people in 18 countries saw the images, according to reports at the time. The choir's concert was the only musical performance.
''They got a fuzzy picture in Europe, but to us, of all the adventures in the choir, this was one of the greatest,'' said Mr. Clark, who met his wife, now 83, when they were both music majors in the 1940s at Brigham Young University, the church-owned school an hour south of Salt Lake.
A framed photograph taken just before the performance, with Ms. Clark, an alto, near the front and Mr. Clark, a bass, near the back, dominates the living room of their home here. The singers look expectant but poised, drenched in body -- Mr. Clark remembered getting back on the plane and wringing out the sleeves of his suit -- but not in spirit.
Several historians said the brief, shimmering moment of the Tabernacle Choir in cold-warrior mode also captured something about the nation itself.
Much of American music and society in 1962 was in sync -- in a way perhaps never before or since -- with the buttoned-down world of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Suburbs and large, baby-boom families were in vogue, and that made the Mormons, who'd fled to Utah to escape persecution in the 1840s, look more like everybody else than they ever had.
''Mormonism seemed to fit with what America perceived itself to be at that moment,'' said Walter P. Reeve, an associate professor of history at the University of Utah who teaches a course on Utah in the cold war.
Music technology played a role in the choir's -- and thus the church's -- march toward the mainstream. The first recordings, using giant sound-collecting horns suspended from the ceiling of the tabernacle, were released in 1910. A Sunday radio broadcast began in 1929, mixing choral swell with what church authorities call ''the spoken word'' of scriptural message.
A recording contract with the Columbia label in the late 1950s expanded the choir's repertory toward secular standards; its ''Battle Hymn of the Republic'' won a Grammy Award in 1959.
World War II, meanwhile, ended the state's economic isolation, with thousands of jobs in munitions and manufacturing that were later extended into the apparatus of the cold war in missile and space-race technology. In 1955, in a kind of precursor to Operation Telstar, the choir performed in West Berlin even as the United States and its allies were straining to hold it as an outpost in the Soviet camp.
But if the early '60s were a high point of assimilation for the choir and the church, they also marked a turning point. Much of American culture in 1962 was about to depart from the ordered, paternalistic terrain that Mormons defended and embodied.
As the sexual revolution, the drug culture and the social upheaval of civil rights and the Vietnam War advanced, the LDS Church retreated, re-emphasizing modesty in dress and behavior, sharpening the cultural conservatism that remains a church hallmark today.
''What happened in the immediate aftermath of the choir's broadcast created a tension between these Mormon values, which had been mainstream American values, and the increasing divergence of American culture,'' said Richard E. Turley Jr., a church historian.
By the late 1960s and early 1970s, Mr. Turley said, much of America looked alien through Mormon eyes. That wall of separation and isolation got higher still in the 1970s, when evidence about the effects of nuclear testing on Southern Utah's population, downwind from the Nevada testing sites, began to emerge, said Professor Reeve at the University of Utah, who is a Mormon. Suspicion and cynicism toward Washington -- common now in Utah and across the West, but rare in 1962 -- began to harden and deepen as well, he said.
But through those hours of July 23, 1962, at least, and then resonating in the memories of participants long afterward, something had happened -- intense and strange and drenched with meaning -- that left a lasting mark.
A satellite, wondrously symbolic for better and worse of the world and all its new fears and hopes, had reached down and plucked up those hundreds of fervent voices and carried them out to a broader world, as though through an open window. And then, like the moving on of tiny Telstar itself, the window slammed closed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Mormon Tabernacle Choir performing at the foot of Mount Rushmore on July 23, 1962, part of the first live international satellite broadcast called Operation Telstar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LDS CHURCH ARCHIVES) (AR1)
The Mormon Tabernacle Choir, above on a trip to Paris in 1955 and, far left, rehearsing last month in Salt Lake City for a concert commemorating 100 years of recordings
left, William F. Turner, who worked to have the choir sing at Mount Rushmore
below left, Helen and Owen Clark, who performed at that show. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY INTELLECTUAL RESERVE
MIKE TERRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
GREG KAHN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MIKE TERRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORMONS & MORMONISM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); HISTORY (77%); ARMS RACE (77%); COLD WAR (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (94%); RAPID CITY, SD, USA (58%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CUBA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



522 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1590 words

HEADLINE: How Fox Betrayed Petraeus

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
THE ''ground zero mosque,'' as you may well know by now, is not at ground zero. It's not a mosque but an Islamic cultural center containing a prayer room. It's not going to determine President Obama's political future or the elections of 2010 or 2012. Still, the battle that has broken out over this project in Lower Manhattan -- on the ''hallowed ground'' of a shuttered Burlington Coat Factory store one block from the New York Dolls Gentlemen's Club -- will prove eventful all the same. And the consequences will be far more profound than any midterm election results or any of the grand debates now raging 24/7 over the parameters of tolerance, religious freedom, and the real estate gospel of location, location, location.
Here's what's been lost in all the screaming. The prime movers in the campaign against the ''ground zero mosque'' just happen to be among the last cheerleaders for America's nine-year war in Afghanistan. The wrecking ball they're wielding is not merely pounding Park51, as the project is known, but is demolishing America's already frail support for that war, which is dedicated to nation-building in a nation whose most conspicuous asset besides opium is actual mosques. 
So virulent is the Islamophobic hysteria of the neocon and Fox News right -- abetted by the useful idiocy of the Anti-Defamation League, Harry Reid and other cowed Democrats -- that it has also rendered Gen. David Petraeus's last-ditch counterinsurgency strategy for fighting the war inoperative. How do you win Muslim hearts and minds in Kandahar when you are calling Muslims every filthy name in the book in New York?
You'd think that American hawks invested in the Afghanistan ''surge'' would not act against their own professed interests. But they couldn't stop themselves from placing cynical domestic politics over country. The ginned-up rage over the ''ground zero mosque'' was not motivated by a serious desire to protect America from the real threat of terrorists lurking at home and abroad -- a threat this furor has in all likelihood exacerbated -- but by the potential short-term rewards of winning votes by pandering to fear during an election season.
We owe thanks to Justin Elliott of Salon for the single most revealing account of this controversy's evolution. He reports that there was zero reaction to the ''ground zero mosque'' from the front-line right or anyone else except marginal bloggers when The Times first reported on the Park51 plans in a lengthy front-page article on Dec. 9, 2009. The sole exception came some two weeks later at Fox News, where Laura Ingraham, filling in on ''The O'Reilly Factor,'' interviewed Daisy Khan, the wife of the project's organizer, Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf. Ingraham gave the plans her blessing. ''I can't find many people who really have a problem with it,'' she said. ''I like what you're trying to do.''
As well Ingraham might. Rauf is no terrorist. He has been repeatedly sent on speaking tours by the Bush and Obama State Departments alike to promote tolerance in Arab and Muslim nations. As Jeffrey Goldberg of The Atlantic reported last week, Rauf gave a moving eulogy at a memorial service for Daniel Pearl, the Wall Street Journal reporter murdered by Islamist terrorists in Pakistan, at the Manhattan synagogue B'nai Jeshurun. Pearl's father was in attendance. The Park51 board is chock-full of Christians and Jews. Perhaps the most threatening thing about this fledgling multi-use community center, an unabashed imitator of the venerable (and Jewish) 92nd Street Y uptown, is its potential to spawn yet another coveted, impossible-to-get-into Manhattan private preschool.
In the five months after The Times's initial account there were no newspaper articles on the project at all. It was only in May of this year that the Rupert Murdoch axis of demagoguery revved up, jettisoning Ingraham's benign take for a New York Post jihad. The paper's inspiration was a rabidly anti-Islam blogger best known for claiming that Obama was Malcolm X's illegitimate son. Soon the rest of the Murdoch empire and its political allies piled on, promoting the incendiary libel that the ''radical Islamists'' behind the ''ground zero mosque'' were tantamount either to neo-Nazis in Skokie (according to a Wall Street Journal columnist) or actual Nazis (per Newt Gingrich).
These patriots have never attacked the routine Muslim worship services at another site of the 9/11 attacks, the Pentagon. Their sudden concern for ground zero is suspect to those of us who actually live in New York. All but 12 Republicans in the House voted against health benefits for 9/11 responders just last month. Though many of these ground-zero watchdogs partied at the 2004 G.O.P. convention in New York exploiting 9/11, none of them protested that a fellow Republican, the former New York governor George Pataki, so bollixed up the management of the World Trade Center site that nine years on it still lacks any finished buildings, let alone a permanent memorial.
The Fox patron saint Sarah Palin calls Park51 a ''stab in the heart'' of Americans who ''still have that lingering pain from 9/11.'' But her only previous engagement with the 9/11 site was when she used it as a political backdrop for taking her first questions from reporters nearly a month after being named to the G.O.P. ticket. (She was so eager to grab her ground zero photo op that she defied John McCain's just-announced ''suspension'' of their campaign.) Her disingenuous piety has been topped only by Bernie Kerik, who smuggled a Twitter message out of prison to register his rage at the ground zero desecration. As my colleague Clyde Haberman reminded us, such was Kerik's previous reverence for the burial ground of 9/11 that he appropriated an apartment overlooking the site (and designated for recovery workers) for an extramarital affair.
At the Islamophobia command center, Murdoch's News Corporation, the hypocrisy is, if anything, thicker. A recent Wall Street Journal editorial darkly cited unspecified ''reports'' that Park51 has ''money coming from Saudi charities or Gulf princes that also fund Wahabi madrassas.'' As Jon Stewart observed, this brand of innuendo could also be applied to News Corp., whose second largest shareholder after the Murdoch family is a member of the Saudi royal family. Perhaps last week's revelation that News Corp. has poured $1 million into G.O.P. campaign coffers was a fiendishly clever smokescreen to deflect anyone from following the far greater sum of Saudi money (a $3 billion stake) that has flowed into Murdoch enterprises, or the News Corp. money (at least $70 million) recently invested in a Saudi media company.
Were McCain in the White House, Fox and friends would have kept ignoring Park51. But it's an irresistible target in our current election year because it revives the most insidious anti-Obama narrative of the many Fox promoted in the previous election year: Obama the closet Muslim and secret madrassa alumnus. In the much discussed latest Pew poll, a record number of Americans (nearing 20 percent) said that our Christian president practices Islam. And they do not see that as a good thing. Existing or proposed American mosques hundreds and even thousands of miles from ground zero, from Tennessee to Wisconsin to California, are now under siege.
After 9/11, President Bush praised Islam as a religion of peace and asked for tolerance for Muslims not necessarily because he was a humanitarian or knew much about Islam but because national security demanded it. An America at war with Islam plays right into Al Qaeda's recruitment spiel. This month's incessant and indiscriminate orgy of Muslim-bashing is a national security disaster for that reason -- Osama bin Laden's ''next video script has just written itself,'' as the former F.B.I. terrorist interrogator Ali Soufan put it -- but not just for that reason. America's Muslim partners, those our troops are fighting and dying for, are collateral damage. If the cleric behind Park51 -- a man who has participated in events with Condoleezza Rice and Karen Hughes, for heaven's sake -- is labeled a closet terrorist sympathizer and a Nazi by some of the loudest and most powerful conservative voices in America, which Muslims are not?
In the latest CNN poll, American opposition is at an all-time high to both the ostensibly concluded war in Iraq (69 percent) and the endless one in Afghanistan (62 percent). Now, when the very same politicians and pundits who urge infinite patience for Afghanistan slime Muslims as Nazis, they will have to explain that they are not talking about Hamid Karzai or his corrupt narco-thug government or the questionably loyal Afghan armed forces our own forces are asked to entrust with their lives. The hawks will have to make the case that American troops should make the ultimate sacrifice to build a Nazi -- Afghan, I mean -- nation and that economically depressed taxpayers should keep paying for it. Good luck with that.
Poor General Petraeus. Over the last week he has been ubiquitous in the majornewspapers and ontelevision as he pursues a publicity tour to pitch the war he's inherited. But have you heard any buzz about what he had to say? Any debate? Any anything? No one was listening and no one cared. Everyone was too busy yelling about the mosque.
It's poignant, really. Even as America's most venerable soldier returned from the front to valiantly assume the role of Willy Loman, the product he was selling was being discredited and discontinued by his own self-proclaimed allies at home.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); TERRORISM (50%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (85%); BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY WAREHOUSE CORP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (77%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); HARRY REID (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



523 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE CHOICE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Q & A DEBT-FREE U; Unconventional Thinking About How to Pay for College

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
On Aug. 31, Portfolio will publish ''Debt-Free U: How I Paid for an Outstanding College Education Without Loans, Scholarships or Mooching Off My Parents'' by Zac Bissonnette.
Mark Kantrowitz, an occasional contributor to The Choice and the publisher of Finaid.org, suggested that this was a book worth bringing to the attention of readers of our blog. In response, I did a brief interview-by-e-mail with Mr. Bissonnette, who has written for AOL's DailyFinance.com, among other news media outlets. Excerpts of our exchange, which have been edited, are below.Q.You're entering your senior year at the University of Massachusetts, and the subtitle of your book suggests you paid your own way ''without loans, scholarships, or mooching off'' your mother and father. Roughly how much has your education cost, and how did you manage to pay for it?
A.Tuition and fees and room and board at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, run $20,545 per year for a Massachusetts resident (like me) -- and less if you live off-campus with roommates (as I did during my junior year). 
Most families qualify for a $2,500 tax credit on the first $4,000 in college expenses. So that $20,545 becomes $18,045. I worked multiple jobs throughout high school so I personally had about $35,000 in savings entering college because I was obsessive about it.
But even if I hadn't had any savings: $18,045 per year means that you need to come up with $347 per week (assuming you received no financial aid or scholarships and lived on campus), which means that families that qualify for no financial aid can come up with $173.50 from the kid working and the same from mom and dad -- which is doable, especially given the savings they'll have because your kid isn't at home taking long showers.
You can use a monthly payment plan through the college so you don't need to have this in savings going in. Many families get some financial aid or have some money in savings for college, so this debt-free plan is actually based on very conservative assumptions.Q.Based on the payment plan you sketch above - ''$173.50/week from the student working and the same from mom and dad'' - at what point does a student's reliance on some financial help from a parent become ''mooching''?A.It's funny. The original title that I had included the phrase ''or looting my parents' retirement,'' but we ended up shortening it to mooching.
When I say mooching, what I mean is this: Too many parents are making financial sacrifices for their kids' educational costs that put them at great risk. According to FinAid.org, 13.5 percent of parents are using PLUS loans to pay for college, borrowing an average of $23,298 -- and then there are many more parents who are taking out home equity loans or withdrawing money from retirement accounts or depleting their emergency funds.
Middle-aged parents of college students are -- and there's no nice way of saying this -- simply too old to be accumulating consumer debt. I don't think parents should ever use PLUS loans and frankly, it's a product that I wish didn't exist.
So what I want parents to do is help their kids with college expenses by making short-term sacrifices -- i.e. driving a car an extra year, selling stuff on eBay, or perhaps eating out less, as trite as that has become. I don't want them looting retirement funds or taking out loans that will put them in grave danger if they lose jobs or see their assets decline in value.Q.What are some things that high school students - not just seniors, but sophomores and juniors, too - can be doing to put themselves in the best position to help pay for college?A.High school students are really well positioned to save a large percentage of their income: they usually have no dependents and very low overhead.
A high school student who works twenty hours per week (more during the summer, less during the school year) and saves $6 per hour of that throughout high school will have $24,960 in savings by the time he starts college.
Working while in school can also be an exciting way to explore interests, just like any other extracurricular activity. For me, that meant working at a theater and selling books on eBay. For a student who's interested in athletics, that might mean studying to become a personal trainer.
People worry that working during school will hurt academic performance. But a 1993 study published in The Journal of Student Financial Aid found that college students who were employed actually had a slightly higher average GPA (2.72) than those who weren't working (2.69).
I'm not saying that this is the easiest approach to paying for college. Obviously in the short-term, borrowing a lot of money involves less effort. But in light of the mounting evidence of the problems student loans so often cause in the lives of borrowers, it's worth it.Q.What about those students (and their families) who feel they have no choice to but to borrow? Do you recommend some kinds of loans over others? And what is your general thinking on how much student-loan debt is too much?A.Families should exhaust all means of reducing costs before borrowing. That might mean skipping out on the first choice college and attending a state school or a community college. When borrowing, students should use only federal loans. Private loans should never be used for undergraduate education.
When it comes to borrowing, Mark Kantrowitz of FinAid.org, which is the resource for financial aid, recommends borrowing no more than your expected starting salary. So if your expected starting salary is $40,000, you should borrow no more than $10,000 per year for four years.
The metrics behind that make sense in that default rates do jump quickly once you get past that level of debt. The problem, I think, is that if you can't get a job or your starting salary is lower than you thought it would be, that starting salary you expected when you were 18 is meaningless. It's like booking a vacation four years from now based on the weather today.
Debt always adds risk, and unsecured debt that can't be discharged in bankruptcy adds a ton of risk -- and can force students to forgo things like grad school or taking an exciting but low-paying job that might lead to long-term opportunities.Q.You note that you attended UMass as an in-state resident. Is this a strategy - applying to and attending a public university in-state - that you believe will become even more popular in the current economy? Should more students be considering such a route?A.Tuition and fees for out-of-state undergrads at UMass are $23,628 versus $11,732 for in-state. Attending an in-state public institution is the easiest and most powerful way to reduce the cost of college, and I think it's one that certainly should become more popular as families stare down depleted 529 plans and shrunken home equity.
Another good reason to start out at an affordable public institution is this: We've seen something of a devaluation of the bachelor's degree in the job market: more than half of college grads under age 25 are working at jobs that don't require a degree. What that means is that a larger percentage of grads will want or need to attend graduate school to achieve their career goals. We're already starting to see that happen.
If you graduate from college debt-free, grad school is a lot easier. A 1998 Nellie Mae study found that 38 percent of student loan borrowers reported that their debt had prevented them from pursuing grad school. Also interesting is a 2004 piece in The Atlantic that reported that ''61 percent of new students at Harvard Law School last year had received their bachelor's degrees outside the Ivy League.''
To comment on Mr. Bissonnette's suggestions, and perspective, please use the box below.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MONEY SAVVY: Zac Bissonnette urges parents not to sacrifice their retirement for their children's college educations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (90%); FAMILY (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



524 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2478 words

HEADLINE: Fatal Encounter

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON and SERGE F. KOVALESKI; Alain Delaqueriere, Lois DeSocio, Emily B. Hager, Nate Schweber, Jack Styczynski and Karen Zraick contributed reporting.

 BODY:
FRIDAY afternoon was sliding at last toward evening, with what promised to be a weekend of memories and laughter ahead. Defarra Gaymon, 48, the charming and dapper chief executive of a credit union 900 miles south in Atlanta, had been back in his boyhood home in New Jersey for only a matter of hours, and already he was supposed to be in two different places at once.
He had told a former pastor that he planned on attending Family Vacation Bible School at St. Paul Baptist Church in Montclair, the church where he married his high school girlfriend, Mellanie Peoples, more than 20 years and four children ago. The class was to begin at 6 p.m. that day, July 16. At that exact time, he was due at Egan & Sons, an upscale Irish pub a mile away, to join a reunion of alumni from Montclair High School, where he graduated in 1980.
But on that Friday, Mr. Gaymon went to neither the church nor the pub, choosing instead a third destination that would shock his friends and co-workers -- people who believed they really knew the man -- in the days and weeks ahead. 
He went to Branch Brook Park, a 115-year-old grassy belt of ponds and fountains surrounded by gritty Newark. In polite circles and press releases, the park is best known for its cherry blossoms; in other circles and news stories it is also well known as a destination for gay men seeking anonymous trysts in the overgrown thickets and patches of forest.
Edward Esposito, 29, was also in the park that day. An eight-year veteran of the Essex County Sheriff's Office, Officer Esposito was working undercover to arrest men soliciting sex.
What followed remains under investigation, a chain of events in which both men would be described as behaving entirely contrary to character, with the gentle banker whose sister called him a ''softie'' turning violent, and the level-headed officer, facing an unarmed man in a wide-open space, responding with lethal force. In the end, in a placid, grassy spot beside a pond, Officer Esposito shot Mr. Gaymon in the abdomen, killing him.
Officer Esposito, who was raised in a family thick with police officers, has cooperated with investigators from the prosecutor's office and returned to work. Mr. Gaymon, the son of a Baptist minister, was buried last month in Columbia, S.C., where he lived for more than a decade.
More than 300 people attended the funeral, including an emissary sent by the mayor of Atlanta. Mourners were invited to take piggy banks from his credit union that bore his picture. They were handed 10-page programs filled with pictures and poems and anguished goodbyes, including this, signed simply, ''Mom and Dad'':
''I can't quit thinking of you. I think I'm going insane.''
BEFORE he was even married, George Gaymon decided that if God answered his prayer to make his first child a boy, he would name him Defarra. But outside his family, George Gaymon's son rarely used the unusual name; he was known as Dean.
He was born in Topeka, Kan., where his father was stationed in the Air Force, then moved to Anchorage, Alaska, and Montclair.
''Defarra was an interesting child,'' George Gaymon said in an interview in July. ''He was happy-go-lucky; he liked to make others laugh.'' He had ''the mind of a scientist,'' and also loved to play with pets and with his friends, his father said. Defarra, he said, grew into a popular teen who still wanted to dance when everyone else was packing it in for the night.
At Montclair High, a long list of activities landed beside his name in the yearbook: French Club, Spanish Club, Latin-Italian Club, Chess Club. He used to tell his father that he wanted to visit every country on earth while he was young, so that he could sit back and remember it all when he was old. He graduated from Benedict College in Columbia and returned to Montclair to begin a career in banking. He started as a teller at Fleet Bank. He wore three-piece suits and carried a briefcase while his colleagues wore Polo shirts and khakis.
''Dean dressed the part as if he were the president,'' George Gaymon recalled.
The younger Mr. Gaymon moved his family to Columbia in the late 1990s.
''In the early '90s, banks suffered from a recession, similar to today's situation, which afforded me a new opportunity,'' he later wrote in promotional material for the Credit Union Executives Society. ''I came across what was called a credit union -- not knowing exactly what a credit union was.''
He prided himself on being something of a miracle worker for people who could not get loans elsewhere. Many such clients showed up for his wake.
He helped Irish Brown, now 50, get a car loan when nobody else would. He helped Constance Hawthorne, 62, pay off debts and secure a loan for a $300,000 home. ''He taught me about managing money,'' she said at his wake. ''If it wasn't for Dean, I wouldn't have any.''
He moved to Atlanta four years ago as an executive vice president of the Credit Union of Atlanta, and was soon promoted to president and chief executive. He earned about $134,000 last year, tax records show.
He traveled extensively for work, as far as Poland this year. He collected dolls from his travels and kept them in his office. And he continued to dress the part, now that he had it.
''He was an impeccable dresser,'' said Rick Hammond, his boss at the South Carolina State Credit Union for several years.
In hindsight, and held up against stereotypes, recollections of Mr. Gaymon's appearance have invariably led to speculation about whether he had a double life, or a hidden one. But friends and relatives who spoke about him were quick to reel off facts that they believed suggested otherwise: His marriage. His four children. At bars, he would comment on attractive women.
''I raised that young man,'' George Gaymon said. ''I know it's not true.'' But then he added: ''Even if that was the case, is that a reason to shoot to kill?''
Last year, Mr. Gaymon joined a Web site for Montclair High alumni, posted pictures of his family and wrote notes to his old friends. ''What's up Jeffery?'' ''Karla, how are you?'' ''Hey John how are you?'' When talk of a class reunion began last summer, Mr. Gaymon stepped forward with ideas, like a barbecue or a Circle Line cruise in New York, and took on the job of setting up the party.
''Give me some thoughts,'' he wrote.
When the time came, he drove up from Atlanta, arriving at the East Orange home of friends from his old church on Thursday, July 15. He ate breakfast with his hosts the next morning before heading out to Willowbrook Mall in Wayne, a favorite spot from his youth.
In the afternoon, Mr. Gaymon sent a text message to Cheryl Wilcox, 57, who was seeking a loan for a new BMW, and then called the office at 4 p.m. to confirm that the loan had gone through.
''That's the kind of guy he was,'' Ms. Wilcox said.
Two hours later, he was lying in Branch Brook Park, bleeding from a bullet wound.
BRANCH BROOK PARK has been a scene for gay cruising at least since the 1980s. The Sheriff's Office, which patrols the park, would run suspects out of one section, only to find the activity resurfacing in another, leaving behind the telltale flotsam of beer cans and condoms.
Around 2005, adults on a Boy Scout outing saw men engaging in sex acts. One of those adults was Paula T. Dow, who is now New Jersey's attorney general and was then the Essex County prosecutor. Her office, and the sheriff, launched an undercover operation.
More than 200 people have been arrested since then in Branch Brook and at South Mountain Reservation, also in Essex County, said Sheriff Armando B. Fontoura. He has invited reporters to park operations, where his officers lighted the woods with spotlights that sent half-dressed men running away.
''Go somewhere that is more private,'' the sheriff said in 2006. ''There are motels that specialize in this kind of thing, very reasonably priced.''
But defense lawyers say the officers are aggressive, seeking out people they perceive to be gay and provoking them. ''People don't grab your crotch if you don't give them the impression that you want your crotch grabbed,'' complained Alexander Shalom, a public defender who has represented several of those arrested and has asked the prosecutor's office to end the undercover operations.
Officers are rotated in and out of the park, but a few regulars began to recognize one in particular: a man who just sat in his beige car, as if awaiting an invitation. One of those regulars, Jerome Goods, said the man arrested him one day in June, charging him with loitering for the purpose of prostitution. Mr. Goods said he wrote down the name of the officer:
Esposito.
EDWARD ESPOSITO might as well have been born with a badge stuck to his chest. His mother, stepfather and brother were all police officers, and he went on to marry one.
He was always handy, and good enough that he could make furniture. At Millburn High School, he ran the lighting programs for student plays and musicals like ''The Sound of Music,'' ''Fiddler on the Roof'' and ''Arsenic and Old Lace.''
''The stage consumed a lot of his time,'' said James White, a shop teacher and technical stage director. ''He was often at school until 9 at night and sometimes later.''
He became keenly interested in cars and motorcycles -- driving them and fixing them up. ''If he saw a Lamborghini or a nice car like that, he'd mention it when we saw each other,'' said Michael Riccio, 30, a longtime friend. Over the years, Officer Esposito owned several Ford Mustangs and motorcycles, including a Harley-Davidson and a Yamaha R1 racer.
He embodied any number of New Jersey prerequisites for manhood, both a big ''Sopranos'' fan and a solid athlete. As an adult, he played hockey for a team that called itself the Mixed Nuts, with jerseys that bore images of cashews and peanuts.
After high school, he moved in the direction of so many Espositos before him, beginning as a security officer at a mall. In 2000 he joined the Monmouth County Sheriff's Office and, two years later, the Essex County sheriff. He has done court security, dispatcher duty, narcotics and detective work, as well as driving and providing security for the county executive, Joseph N. DiVincenzo Jr.
Personnel records provided by the county are thick with commendations for Officer Esposito. As recently as June 29, he received one for helping arrest four drug suspects in Westside Park in Newark.
Gerard Tucci, Officer Esposito's boss for about two years, described him as even-tempered, ''a trouble-free employee.''
''I'm not telling you that he is a zombie, but you don't want an officer too high all the time or too low all the time,'' said Mr. Tucci, who retired as a captain in 2008. ''The police officer of the 21st century is no longer the rough-and-tumble person of the 1900s, where you rough up a town and leave like a marshal in the Wild West. You are part of the community and part psychologist, part sociologist, part teacher and part interpreter, someone who has to be sensitive to the immense cultural differences encountered every day.''
Officer Esposito, who earns about $77,000 a year, has two children, ages 6 months and 2 years. ''Fatherhood has changed him,'' said his old friend Mr. Riccio. ''His garage has gone from having motorcycles and cars to being filled with toys, blow-up things and other kids' stuff.''
Dan Pollock, who has known Officer Esposito since middle school, told friends about 10 years ago that he was gay. ''It did not faze him at all,'' Mr. Pollock said of Officer Esposito. ''I have never seen him hate on anybody. It's not his style.''
WHAT has been publicly released about what happened in the park on July 16 has come from the prosecutor's office and, given the absence of other witnesses, is based solely on Officer Esposito's account.
He said he lost his handcuffs during an earlier arrest that day, and was retracing his steps to find them.
Mr. Gaymon, while alone and ''engaged in a sex act,'' approached Officer Esposito, who was in plain clothes. Officer Esposito pulled out his badge and told Mr. Gaymon that he was under arrest.
''Mr. Gaymon appeared to panic, assaulted the police officer and fled,'' the prosecutor's office said in a news release.
There was a chase across an open area, and the officer cornered Mr. Gaymon in a grassy spot near an algae-coated pond. Mr. Gaymon ''threatened to kill the officer,'' the prosecutor's office said. ''Mr. Gaymon then lunged at and attempted to disarm the officer while reaching into his own pocket.''
Officer Esposito, ''fearing for his life,'' fired once.
Eight days later, at his son's funeral, George Gaymon brought the congregation to its feet during a fiery eulogy that lasted but 30 seconds. ''We will bring the circumstance to light!'' he shouted from the pulpit of Antisdel Chapel at Benedict College, his son's alma mater. ''We shall never rest until justice is done!''
An awkward alliance has been struck since the shooting: Mr. Gaymon's family, which has insisted that he was not gay, has been joined by gay groups who have made the shooting a centerpiece of their campaign to stop undercover work in parks. The Sheriff's Office did suspend the operation, saying it needed to make some adjustments, but beefed up patrols by officers in uniform.
The suspension was ''a prudent thing to do when something of this magnitude happens,'' Sheriff Fontoura said in an interview. He said he was working with local gay rights groups to curtail lewd activity, adding: ''If people comply with the laws, we won't need this undercover operation anymore.''
Officer Esposito was transferred to the Office of Emergency Management while the prosecutor's office investigates. He answered a reporter's knock on his door the week after the shooting and asked for privacy. His lawyer said he would testify before a grand jury, whose review is standard in police shootings, about what happened the evening of July 16.
''We are confident that when this mandatory investigation is concluded,'' said the lawyer, Charles J. Sciarra, ''all of his actions will be deemed a necessary and justified use of force.''
Two weeks after the shooting, Officer Esposito held a party at his home in Florham Park for his approaching 30th birthday, though Mr. Riccio described the atmosphere as more subdued than celebratory. People talked around the shooting, not addressing it directly; someone asked if Officer Esposito was losing sleep, and he said that he was.
''We were more like, 'Are you O.K.? Are you doing all right?' '' Mr. Riccio said. ''Ed said that the only time he feels normal is when he is mowing his lawn, like it was a brief escape for him.''
On recent visits to Branch Brook Park, only the odd jogger or stroller-pushing parent walked past the notorious woods. Officers in uniform parked and chatted on the side of the road.
The shooting seems to have done what hundreds of arrests over the years never could: keep men looking for sex out of the park.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MEMORIAL: Defarra Gaymon's funeral. Top, Branch Brook Park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNE MCQUARY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
LIFE AND DEATH: Clockwise from left: Defarra Gaymon, president of the Credit Union of Atlanta
his home in Suwanee, Ga.
his memorial service in July
and his parents, Mattie and the Rev. Dr. George Gaymon, at the service. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, CLOCKWISE FROM ABOVE: ANNE MCQUARY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CREDIT UNION OF ATLANTA, VIA THE STAR-LEDGER
ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 FUTURE OFFICER: Edward Esposito's 1998 high school photo. (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CALENDARS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (86%); CHILDREN (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); FAMILY (76%); FAMILY TRAVEL (76%); RELIGION (76%); SHERIFFS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); DRINKING PLACES (68%); PROSTITUTION (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



525 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: With Russian Aid, Iranians Open Their First Nuclear Power Plant

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YONG and ANDREW E. KRAMER; William Yong reported from Tehran, and Andrew E. Kramer from Moscow.

 BODY:
TEHRAN -- Thirty-six years after construction began under the shah, Iran finally opened its first nuclear power plant at a ceremony on Saturday.
Attended by senior officials from Iran and Russia, which helped build the plant, the ceremony marked the beginning of the transfer of low-enriched uranium fuel rods from a storage site into the plant. Officials of both countries said that Saturday's events signified the opening, not the startup, of the plant near Bushehr, in southern Iran. 
The plant itself is not controversial, because the Russians plan to provide fuel for it and to remove spent fuel that could be used to make weapons. But the opening was sure to upset United States diplomats, who had encouraged Russia to delay it as a way to add to economic sanctions imposed on Iran because of its refusal to cease enrichment of uranium at its other nuclear facilities. Although Iran denies that it is using its civilian nuclear program to mask a plan to build a bomb, many Western countries are dubious.
The chief of Russia's Rosatom state nuclear power company, Sergei Kiriyenko, speaking to members of the news media in an amphitheater of the Bushehr complex, took pains to emphasize, as Russians have for years, that the plant complied with the requirements of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
''Not a single professional in the world has any questions about the chance that the Bushehr nuclear power plant could be used for nonpeaceful purposes,'' he said. Shaking hands and smiling with his Iranian counterparts in television reports broadcast in Russia, Mr. Kiriyenko called Saturday ''a special day for both Russian and Iranian specialists.''
Russia also announced what seemed to be a new safeguard. Its technicians will jointly operate the station for two to three years under an agreement signed Saturday before the opening ceremony, Mr. Kiriyenko said, gradually handing over the controls to the Iranians.
He also announced that Russia would provide Iran with iodine and molybdenum, nuclear isotopes used in medicine. It was unclear what effect this would have on efforts to dissuade Iran from enriching uranium to a higher grade than is needed in electrical power plants so that it could be used in a research reactor in Tehran that produces medical isotopes.
Russia had delayed work on Bushehr before, with Russian officials often appearing to use the project as leverage in negotiations with Iran's leaders.
One reason the country might have gone ahead this time is commercial. The Iranian plant is hardly profitable for Russia, but many others elsewhere are, and Rosatom has an interest in showing it will not abrogate a contract under pressure from the United States.
Technicians from Russia will be moving rods, which contain tons of uranium, for several weeks. Iranian television reported that this task would be completed by Sept. 5.
Only later this year will the plant begin producing electricity, Mr. Kiriyenko said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (94%); POWER PLANTS (93%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (93%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); RADIOPHARMACEUTICALS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (66%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (89%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (89%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



526 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Debt's Deadly Grip

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IT'S one of the toughest lessons an investor has to learn: while the value of assets can plummet posthaste, it takes forever to shrink the debt that was used to buy them.
Last week, this harsh truth was made clear yet again, in a report on consumers' financial well-being by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The first of a Fed series to be published quarterly on household debt and credit, the 38-page report shows just how tapped out the consumer remains three years after the borrowing bubble burst.
To be sure, the data indicates that consumers are doing what they can to kick their debt habits. But the process is slow. 
For example, total consumer debt stood at $11.7 trillion on June 30, down just 6.5 percent from its peak in the third quarter of 2008. The number of open credit card accounts was down considerably -- 23.2 percent -- from the highs reached during the second quarter of 2008, while mortgage obligations have fallen 6.4 percent from the peak that was seen almost two years ago.
Many consumers, though, are still very much in a vise. Halfway through this year, 11.4 percent of outstanding consumer debt was delinquent, up slightly from 11.2 percent a year earlier. An astonishing $1.3 trillion of consumer debt is delinquent, with $986 billion seriously so -- 90 days late and counting. While delinquent balances are down by about 3 percent from the same period last year, serious delinquencies are up a bit more -- 3.1 percent.
Here are some other troubling statistics from the Fed: a half-million people had a foreclosure added to their credit reports between March 31 and June 30, an increase of 8.7 percent over the first quarter of the year. And the numbers of consumers with new bankruptcies appearing on their credit reports rose 34 percent during the quarter, to 621,000. That increase is significantly bigger than it has been in the last few years, according to the Fed.
Per capita debt balances are staggering, as well -- and for many consumers, the assets underpinning these obligations have collapsed. Reflecting the heavy burden that mortgages represent for most consumers, these debts are highest in states where the real estate mania went craziest. In California, for example, the average per capita debt balance among consumers with a credit report is $78,000, the Fed said; in Nevada, it is $73,000. The nationwide average is $49,000.
ADDING to the weight of these debts is the fact that consumers' income statements aren't exactly flush right now, thanks to high unemployment and rock-bottom interest rates. The misery of a balance sheet deleveraging is being exacerbated by a dearth of income opportunities.
Of course, this is what happens after a spectacular asset bubble bursts. Nevertheless, for consumers who are cutting debt and trying to save, it is dispiriting indeed that they generate so little on their money. Those living on fixed incomes are also in a bind.
It is not lost on these consumers that their minuscule returns are a direct result of the Federal Reserve's attempt to shore up troubled banks' financial standing. Sharply cutting interest rates vastly increases banks' profits by widening the spread between what they pay to depositors and what they receive from borrowers. As such, the Fed's zero-interest-rate policy is yet another government bailout for the very industry that drove the economy to the brink.
Todd E. Petzel, chief investment officer at Offit Capital Advisors, a private wealth management concern, characterizes the Fed's interest rate policy as an invisible tax that costs savers and investors roughly $350 billion a year. This tax is stifling consumption, Mr. Petzel argues, and is pushing investors to reach for yields in riskier securities that they wouldn't otherwise go near.
In short, the Fed's interest rate policy may be causing more economic problems than it's solving.
Here's how Mr. Petzel calculated the amount that savers are losing: Some $14 trillion in debt issued by the Treasury, federal agencies and municipalities is held by investors here and overseas. Rates are currently near zero on short-term Treasuries, compared with an average of 3 percent over time. Therefore, Mr. Petzel says, it is reasonable to estimate that rates are too low by 2.5 percentage points. On $14 trillion, that's $350 billion a year in lost income.
Yes, we're talking real money. It's more than 2 percent of gross domestic product and almost 3 percent of disposable personal income, Mr. Petzel noted.
''If we thought this zero-interest-rate policy was lowering people's credit card bills it would be one thing but it doesn't,'' he said. Neither does it seem to be resulting in increased lending by the banks. ''It's a policy matter that people are not focusing on,'' Mr. Petzel added.
One reason it's not a priority is that savers and people living on fixed incomes have no voice in Washington. The banks, meanwhile, waltz around town with megaphones.
Savers aren't the only losers in this situation; underfunded pensions and crippled endowments are as well.
Of course, the federal government is a huge beneficiary of low rates; if they were higher, our already ballooning deficits would be heftier still. Nevertheless, raising interest rates a bit would be beneficial on several counts, Mr. Petzel maintains. It could help increase consumption and would reduce the appeal of higher-yielding and dicier investments.
THE Fed may be fearful, Mr. Petzel surmised, that higher interest rates could push some teetering banks off the cliff. ''But saving a few more zombie enterprises with strong Washington voices at the expense of millions of savers' consumption may be missing the forest for the trees,'' he said.
As the midterm elections approach, expect to hear arguments that the recent bailouts have not been that onerous, when all is said and done. But such contentions are unlikely to include the costs of near-zero interest rates, a sizable line item on any accurate reckoning of the bailout bacchanal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (91%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); NEVADA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



527 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; VISUALS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2002 words

HEADLINE: Forms and Functions

BYLINE: By STEVEN HELLER

 BODY:
In 1847, Oliver Byrne, ''surveyor of Her Majesty's settlements in the Falkland Islands and author of numerous mathematical works,'' wrote and designed an illustrated book so far ahead of its time that, with the exception of a few passe typographical details, it could have been published today. In fact, it has been published today, as a stunning boxed facsimile edition. Given its ''less is more'' layout and primary-color palette -- red, blue, yellow, black -- THE FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ELEMENTS OF EUCLID: In Which Coloured Diagrams and Symbols Are Used Instead of Letters for the Greater Ease of Learners (Taschen, $59.99) prefigures the art and design of 20th-century avant-garde movements. Yet although the illustration on the title page is the spitting image of a de Stijl and Bauhaus design, the mid-19th-century publishing date disqualifies it from being ''modern'' in the Museum of Modern Art sense of the word. Now, that's obtuse. 
Sure, the book may have one of those lengthy old-fashioned titles, but ''The First Six Books of the Elements of Euclid'' is so rationalist, minimalist and aesthetically pure, every graphic designer, book lover and math nerd will be as awe-struck as I was. (It comes with a pamphlet containing an essay by Werner Oechslin, an architectural historian and theorist.) In the 1980s, the graphic-design historian Philip B. Meggs introduced me to the book through his illustrated series of articles in Print magazine called ''Landmarks of Book Design.'' Later, at a rare-book fair, when I saw an actual copy, with its vibrant color illustrations of geometric shapes, I decided I had to own an original. Of course, I would have had to mortgage the house, kids and dog to acquire it; so this facsimile not only satisfies my desire, it is more economical and functional in the bargain. I can actually page through the book without fear or guilt -- and if it gets dog-eared, I can buy another.
Every high school student has suffered through Euclid's fundamentals of geometry, which is why the pragmatic Byrne wrote: ''The arts and sciences have become so extensive, that to facilitate their acquirement is of as much importance as to extend their boundaries. Illustration, if it does not shorten the time of study, will at least make it more agreeable.'' Lo and behold, he was right. The color symbols -- circles, squares, diamonds, etc. -- effectively substitute for key words, rebus-style, making comprehension much simpler. By the time the complicated theorems and formulas appear, toward the end of the book, the reader is fluent in the visual language.
''This work,'' Byrne continues, ''has a greater aim than mere illustration; we do not introduce colors for the purpose of entertainment, or to amuse by certain combinations of tint and form, but to assist the mind in its researches after truth, to increase the facilities of instruction and to diffuse permanent knowledge.''
The time has long passed since I was forced to learn Euclidean geometry, but I believe this masterpiece of beautifully functional book design is so effective it could even help recalcitrant students today -- perhaps as an iPhone app.
Byrne made complex information accessible, which is a job qualification for a graphic designer. One of the designer's roles is to turn disorder into order, particularly when it comes to everyday documents like forms for banks, insurance companies, utilities, the census and so much more. When they are logically, rationally and, yes, handsomely designed, it could mean the difference between minutes and hours of labor. This is why THE FORM BOOK: Creating Forms for Printed and Online Use (Thames & Hudson, $65), by Borries Schwesinger, is so necessary. Not only is this an invaluable handbook for designers, it should open the eyes of anyone who produces forms.
But form users stand to benefit too, since they are probably unaware of the mundane details that go into making effective forms, details that, if ignored or rendered poorly, can lead to extreme frustration. For example, the book examines page numbering: ''When a form consists of multiple pages, it is essential to number them.'' Sounds obvious, but take a look at your forms and see how often page numbers are missing. And what about contact details? ''They establish a practical connection with the provider, indicating who sent the form, where it should be returned.'' And, naturally, typography is an overriding concern that is often ignored: ''Good typography is a prerequisite for optimal legibility and demands a particular and considered approach to text. . . . Type can be austere or accessible, straight or rounded, emotive or exaggerated.''
Unless one has an obsessive-compulsive streak for filling out forms, this manual will probably seem arcane. However, one possible unintended consequence of ''The Form Book,'' which should concern everyone, is seeing in the numerous examples, from government agencies and private companies, just how much data -- personal and otherwise -- is regularly being collected from all of us. Not even good design will mitigate these privacy concerns.
There are no forms to be found in STRANGE AND WONDERFUL: An Informal Visual History of Manuscript Books and Albums (Sanctuary, $50), with an introduction by the art critic Jed Perl. But there are selections from a delightful handmade book called ''Collezione di Rebus'' (1820), with original watercolor drawings that replace words in sentences or phrases. This was produced 27 years before Oliver Byrne used the rebus concept in ''The First Six Books of the Elements of Euclid,'' though there is no evidence to prove that this is where he got the idea. Doubtless not a single professional artist or designer was inspired by the journals and albums in this book, since each of them is the work of an amateur, although some were created by people who wanted to be published authors.
''Certain volumes are not so much finished products,'' Perl writes, ''as means to an end, for the authors surely hoped that what had at first been made by hand would eventually make its way through the printing press.'' These specimens are organized according to genre (rather than date), from ''Advertising'' and ''Album Amicorum'' to ''Walmart'' and ''Weaving.'' None follow strict design conventions, and virtually all of them have some kind of undeniably quirky essence. ''Weaving,'' for instance, contains geometric patterns in red, blue and a hint of yellow, not unlike the illustrations in the Euclid book.
My favorite is the ''Monograms'' journal, which recalls Saul Steinberg's fixation with official seals and monograms, yet without the satirical edge. These monograms were cut out from various sources and used as building blocks in other compositions. Likewise, the book under the heading ''Emblems'' reveals a fascination with the manipulation of letter forms that are similar to contemporary logos and trademarks. Some of the books are personalized how-to manuals, like the one for ''Carpentry,'' with detailed drawings of moldings and stairways. Others, like ''Cat Story,'' are maquettes for comic graphic novellas.
There is no real rhyme (though there is certainly a reason) for what the editor, Dan Wechsler, has included in ''Strange and Wonderful.'' But the combination of old and recent photography and drawing, some of it surreal and some of it quite real, triggers a stimulating visual, often contemplative experience. Indeed, these books are not unlike some blogs today -- only it's more fun to turn real pages.
For some bibliophiles, there is no greater pleasure than looking at smartly conceived and elegantly designed book covers and jackets. The next best thing just might be paging through PENGUIN 75: Designers, Authors, Commentary (the Good, the Bad . . .) (Penguin, paper, $25), edited by Paul Buckley, a noted creative director at Penguin.
This lushly illustrated book is a testament to the importance of design in Penguin's publishing program. In 1946, the modernist typographer Jan Tschichold revamped its entire design scheme -- though a lot has changed since then. The covers have become more conceptual and typographically variegated. Buckley also consistently uses young illustrators whose styles add contemporary luster to the books. And in recent years he's recruited a group of graphic novelists, like Chris Ware (who wrote the foreword to this book), Jason Lambiek, Julie Doucet, Art Spiegelman and Daniel Clowes, among many others.
The book features 75 Penguin covers (in celebration of the publisher's 75th anniversary), with the designers, illustrators and authors commenting on the process and result. The most interesting parts involve short ''Rashomon''-type stories in which authors and designers tell their respective tales. But it is also nice to learn how authors feel when they see their babies -- i.e., their books -- wearing jackets and covers for the first time (most authors, mercifully, do not have a say in the art). I particularly liked the novelist Penelope Lively's admission: ''I am always wonderfully startled by the first sight of the jacket art for a forthcoming book -- Oh! So that's how they see it!''
Dave Eggers, who studied art and design in college, has created a distinct identity for his McSweeney's publishing empire, based on new writing, ironic visual content and an expanding universe of artists and designers. In ART OF McSWEENEY'S (Chronicle, $45), by the editors of McSweeney's, 11 years of alternative-publishing history are packed into 263 pages. And what comes through, as it does in ''Penguin 75,'' is an appreciation for good design and a preference for comics. McSweeney's champions Chris Ware, Tony Millionaire, Art Spiegelman, Charles Burns and others. The entire McSweeney's No. 13, covered with a foldout comics page by Ware, was devoted to old and new comics and was guest-edited by Ware as well.
Comics are not the sum total of McSweeney's graphic personality, but they play a huge role in cementing the literary and visual personas in both McSweeney's and its sister publication, The Believer. Since many literary journals avoid a strong visual presence -- perhaps because it competes with the writing -- it's refreshing that Eggers has successfully combined the two mediums and their aesthetics. McSweeney's has become a hothouse of 21st-century editorial graphics, and this book proves it.
When the history of 21st-century popular art is written, Maira Kalman will be included alongside McSweeney's. They embody the zeitgeist in different yet similar ways. Both use art to entertain and inform, but not in a didactic or polemical way. Whereas popular art in the '60s was acidly satirical, even angry (and for good reason), McSweeney's artists and Kalman offer a more laid-back worldview. Wit and humor still abound, but so does a curious, comforting optimism, especially in Kalman's impressionistic work.
Ingrid Schaffner's MAIRA KALMAN: Various Illuminations (of a Crazy World) (Institute of Contemporary Art, University of Pennsylvania/DelMonico/Prestel, $34.95), the catalog from Kalman's first major museum exhibition, for the Institute of Contemporary Art at the University of Pennsylvania, is also the first analytical/historical monograph devoted to her. Until now, her art has mostly been seen in her children's and adult books, as well as in various other publications, including The New York Times (where her illustrated blogs ''And the Pursuit of Happiness'' and ''The Principles of Uncertainty'' appeared). A catalog is always going to be a different experience.
Comparing this with Kalman's original books would not be fair. Those were total entities, with narrative arcs. This is a document (midway through her career) that records her work in a collection of independent images, and therefore lacks some of the artist's storytelling verve. The biographical chronology is useful, and the essays, by Schaffner and other scholars, are a good foundation for further study. But the book could use Kalman's delightfully quirky ooh-la-la voice.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 1847, Byrne used primary-color symbols to teach the principles of Euclidean geometry. (BR 12)
From left: emblems, from a 1920 manuscript on the history of England, in ''Strange and Wonderful''
the cover of McSweeney's No. 3
a Department of Homeland Security visa waiver from ''The Form Book''
 and a rendering of a British poster from World War II, in ''Maira Kalman: Various Illuminations (of a Crazy World).'' (BR 13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); HISTORY (89%); LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); WORLD WAR II (59%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (90%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (74%)

TITLE: First Six Books of the Elements of Euclid, The (Book); Form Book, The (Book); Strange and Wonderful (Book); Penguin 75 (Book); Art of McSweeney's (Book); Maira Kalman (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



528 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Slicing the Pie

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
David A. Moss, an economic and policy historian at the Harvard Business School, has spent years studying income inequality. While he has long believed that the growing disparity between the rich and poor was harmful to the people on the bottom, he says he hadn't seen the risks to the world of finance, where many of the richest earn their great fortunes.
Now, as he studies the financial crisis of 2008, Mr. Moss says that even Wall Street may have something serious to fear from inequality -- namely, another crisis. 
The possible connection between economic inequality and financial crises came to Mr. Moss about a year ago, when he was at his research center in Cambridge, Mass. A colleague suggested that he overlay two different graphs -- one plotting financial regulation and bank failures, and the other charting trends in income inequality.
Mr. Moss says he was surprised by what he saw. The timelines danced in sync with each other. Income disparities between rich and poor widened as government regulations eased and bank failures rose.
''I could hardly believe how tight the fit was -- it was a stunning correlation,'' he said. ''And it began to raise the question of whether there are causal links between financial deregulation, economic inequality and instability in the financial sector. Are all of these things connected?''
Professor Moss is among a small group of economists, sociologists and legal scholars who are now trying to discover if income inequality contributes to financial crises. They have a new data point, of course, in the recent banking crisis, but there is only one parallel in the United States -- the 1929 market crash.
Income disparities before that crisis and before the recent one were the greatest in approximately the last 100 years. In 1928, the top 10 percent of earners received 49.29 percent of total income. In 2007, the top 10 percent earned a strikingly similar percentage: 49.74 percent. In 1928, the top 1 percent received 23.94 percent of income. In 2007, those earners received 23.5 percent. Mr. Moss and his colleagues want to know if huge gaps in income create perverse incentives that put the financial system at risk. If so, their findings could become an argument for tax and social policies aimed at closing the income gap and for greater regulation of Wall Street.
This inquiry is one that some conservative economists are already dismissing.
R. Glenn Hubbard, for instance, who was the top economic advisor to former President George W. Bush, said income inequality was not the culprit in the most recent crisis.
''Cars go faster every year, and G.D.P. rises every year, but that doesn't mean speed causes G.D.P.,'' said Mr. Hubbard, dean of the Columbia Business School and co-author of the coming book ''Seeds of Destruction: Why the Path to Economic Ruin Runs Through Washington, and How to Reclaim American Prosperity.''
Even scholars who support the inquiry say they aren't sure that researchers will be able to prove the connection. Richard B. Freeman, an economist at Harvard, is comparing about 125 financial crises around the globe that occurred over the last 30 years. He said inequality soared before many of these crises. But, Mr. Freeman added, the data from different nations is difficult to compare. And Professor Freeman says he has found some places, like the Scandinavian countries, where there were crises without much inequality, suggesting that other factors, like deregulation, may be the best explanations.
For his part, Mr. Moss said that income inequality might have complicated links to financial crises. For instance, inequality, by putting too much power in the hands of Wall Street titans, enables them to promote policies that benefit them -- like deregulation -- that could put the system in jeopardy.
Inequality may also push people at the bottom of the ladder toward choices that put the financial system at risk, he said. And low-income homeowners could have better afforded their mortgages if not for the earnings gap.
(Mr. Hubbard has a different take: He says many lower-income homeowners should not have had mortgages in the first place. The latest crisis, he says, was caused by policymakers who decided to ''democratize credit'' by expanding home ownership. Their actions were driven by a desire to address inequality, but those policymakers were misguided and should have improved education instead, he adds.)
Scholars who study inequality often focus on people at the bottom. But, Mr. Moss said, the incentives of people at the top also deserve more scrutiny.
He pointed to the recent work of Margaret M. Blair, who teaches at Vanderbilt University Law School and is active with the Tobin Project, the nonprofit organization Mr. Moss founded a few years ago to study issues like economic inequality. She is researching whether financial workers promote bubbles and highly leveraged systems, even unconsciously. Ms. Blair said that because financial bubbles often lead to higher returns, financial workers have the potential to make more, and this pattern can influence their trading strategies and the policies they promote. Those decisions, in turn, drive even greater income inequality, she said.
After the 1929 crash, the income gap narrowed dramatically and remained low for decades, because of the huge wealth lost by people at the top and the sweeping financial reforms introduced in the 1930s that reined in Wall Street.
So far, the results are not as dramatic in the wake of the recent financial crisis. The income gap narrowed slightly in 2008, according to the most recent data available, but it remains unclear if it will continue shrinking.
This time, after all, the system did not collapse as it did in 1929. The status quo on income inequality looks like it was essentially maintained. Mr. Moss said he supported the government intervention in 2008, though he noted, ''Financial elites made off rather well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scraping By: In Depression-era New York City, scenes like this underscored the sudden hardship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); HISTORY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); DEREGULATION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); WRITERS (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



529 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Now Playing: Night of the Living Tech

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Life in the media and communications terrarium, it seems, is getting increasingly perilous. The predictions of demise are piling up. Phone calls, e-mail, blogs and Facebook, according to digerati pundits recently, are speeding toward the grave. Last week, Wired magazine proclaimed, ''The Web Is Dead.''
Yet evolution -- not extinction -- has always been the primary rule of media ecology. New media predators rise up, but other media species typically adapt rather than perish. That is the message of both history and leading media theorists, like Marshall McLuhan and Neil Postman. Television, for example, was seen as a threat to radio and movies, though both evolved and survived.
Still, if the evolutionary pattern remains intact, there are some fundamental differences in today's media ecology, experts say. 
Strip away the headline hyperbole of the ''death of'' predictions, they note, and what remains is mainly commentary on the impact of the accelerated pace of change and accumulated innovations in the Internet-era media and communications environment. A result has been a proliferation of digital media forms and fast-shifting patterns of media consumption.
So the evolutionary engine runs faster than ever before, opening the door to new and often unforeseen possibilities. ''Change has changed qualitatively,'' says Janet Sternberg, an assistant professor at Fordham University and president of the Media Ecology Association, a research organization.
Up, for example, sprout social networks -- Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, Foursquare and others -- that are hybrids of communication, media distribution and unvarnished self-expression. New versatile digital devices -- whether iPhone or Android smartphones, iPod players and iPad tablets -- nurture more innovation and experimentation.
Adaptations follow. College freshman don't wear watches -- cellphones are their timepieces -- and seldom use e-mail, notes the Beloit College Mindset List, which was released last week. (The yearly list, created by two faculty members in 1998, is intended as a glimpse at the attitudes and behavior of new college students.) Instead of e-mail, young people prefer to communicate through social networks, or instant-messaging or cellphone text messages, to which their friends are more likely to reply quickly.
Americans are talking less on their cellphones. When they do talk, the conversations are shorter, according to industry data. Partly, this reflects the shift in use of cellphones more as mobile computers that communicate via written messages. But this also reflects a subtle shift in etiquette, experts say. People increasingly use text messages and e-mail to arrange telephone calls, which are reserved for more important, complicated dialogues. An unscheduled call from people other than family members, they say, is often regarded as a rude intrusion.
Broad swaths of the blogosphere lie fallow, abandoned. But again, this is a sign of adaptive behavior. Much of the communication on personal blogs, where people wrote and posted pictures of themselves, their children and their pets, was about ''sociability'' and has shifted to social networks like Facebook, says John Kelly, lead scientist at Morningside Analytics, a research firm. But professional blogs, meant for public consumption, and focused on subjects like politics, economics and news, are thriving, Mr. Kelly notes.
The spread of mobile media devices, whether smartphones or iPads or Nooks, has led to tailored software applications that make reading text and watching video easier on screens smaller than those on personal computers. So people are not viewing this mobile media through a Web browser like Internet Explorer or Firefox, a central point in the Wired ''Web Is Dead'' article. But the books, magazines and movies viewed on an iPad, for example, are downloaded over the Internet. Indeed, Wired added the headline declaration, ''Long Live the Internet.'' Similarly, the case for Facebook's fall someday is that it is a cluttered Web creation when mobile devices demand sleek, simple designs.
Adaptive innovation and experimentation, experts say, is the rule in a period of rapid change that can be seen as the digital-age equivalent of the ferment after the introduction of the printing press. ''We're experiencing the biggest media petri dish in four centuries,'' observes Paul Saffo, a visiting scholar at Stanford University who specializes in technology's effect on society.
Media evolution, of course, does claim casualties. But most often, these are means of distribution or storage, especially physical ones that can be transformed into digital bits. Photographic film is supplanted, but people take more pictures than ever. CD's no longer dominate, as music is more and more distributed online. ''Books, magazines and newspapers are next,'' predicts Nicholas Negroponte, founder of the M.I.T. Media Lab. ''Text is not going away, nor is reading. Paper is going away.''
Technology is by no means the only agent of change. Cultural tastes have a big influence, sometimes bringing quirky turns in the evolutionary dance. Record turntables and vinyl records did appear all but extinct -- only to be revived by audiophiles, including D.J.'s who created new sounds and rhythms -- the art of turntablism. Today, the analog devices are often linked to computers for editing and adding sound tracks, and many people mix tracks at home. Turntables have made a niche revival, and vinyl record sales have increased 62 percent over the last decade to 2.4 million last year, reports Nielsen, a market research firm.
''No one would have predicted that -- the unexpected happens,'' says Lisa Gitelman, a media historian at New York University. ''When we look at how media evolves, it is clear there is no single arrow forward.''
Radio is a classic evolutionary survivor. In the 1930s and 1940s, radio was the entertainment hearth of American households, as depicted in the Woody Allen film ''Radio Days.'' By the 1950s, television wrested that role from radio. But the older media adapted by moving to shorter programming formats and becoming the background music and chat while people ride in cars and do other things at home. Later, digital satellite distribution breathed new life and diversity into radio offerings, by allowing almost unlimited channels.
''Radio is a supple and durable technology that has outlived quite a few predictions of its demise,'' says John Staudenmaier, editor of the journal Technology and Culture, who regards podcasts as the long-lived medium's latest incarnation. ''It's the country cousin of radio, still the transmission of audio only,'' he says.
Movies, too, have proved remarkably resilient. The television threat in the 1950s set off Hollywood's early, brief foray into 3-D (only recently revived). Movies like ''Bwana Devil,'' ''House of Wax'' and even Alfred Hitchcock's 1954 ''Dial M for Murder'' were shot in 3-D, though the latter played in most theaters as a conventional film. Yet the ultimate solution for Hollywood back then was not a technical gimmick, but a richer art form, though one assisted by wide-screen, vivid-color technologies like Cinerama and CinemaScope. Studios began turning out fewer films, but ones intended to give viewers a more vibrant, immersive experience than television could offer -- movies like ''Ben-Hur'' in 1959 and ''How the West Was Won'' in 1962.
Today, traditional media companies face the adaptive challenge posed by the Internet. That challenge is not just the technology itself, but how it has altered people's habits of media consumption. Multitasking, in the sense of truly being able to focus on more than one cognitively taxing task at a time, may well be a myth, experts say. But it does seem to be an accurate description of people's behavior -- watching television, while surfing the Internet or answering text messages. ''Consumers are getting much more adept at engaging two or three forms of media at a time,'' says Steve Hasker, head of Nielsen's media unit.
Attention spans evolve and shorten, as even the most skilled media jugglers can attest. ''I love the iPad,'' admits Mr. Negroponte, ''but my ability to read any long-form narrative has more or less disappeared, as I am constantly tempted to check e-mail, look up words or click through.'' And people, every bit as much as technology, shape the churning media ecology.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prophecies: Marshall McLuhan, father of media-adaptation theory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BERNARD GOTFRYD/GETTY IMAGES) (WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN HERSEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (78%); INSTANT MESSAGING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); TABLET COMPUTERS (69%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



530 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Often Wrong, But Never in Doubt

BYLINE: By RICHARD H. THALER. 
Richard H. Thaler is a professor of economics and behavioral science at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago.

 BODY:
BUSINESSES in nearly every industry were caught off guard by the Great Recession. Few leaders in business -- or government, for that matter -- seem to have even considered the possibility that an economic downturn of this magnitude could happen.
What was wrong with their thinking? These decision-makers may have been betrayed by a flaw that has been documented in hundreds of studies: overconfidence. 
Most of us think that we are ''better than average'' in most things. We are also ''miscalibrated,'' meaning that our sense of the probability of events doesn't line up with reality. When we say we are sure about a certain fact, for example, we may well be right only half the time.
To see how it works, try this little quiz: Give two estimates of the diameter of the moon in miles -- a high and a low one, so that there is about a 10 percent chance that the moon is bigger than the upper estimate and a 10 percent chance that it is smaller than the lower one. It is easy to be 100 percent sure by making your low guess zero and your high guess a trillion, so don't cheat. Write down your answers before reading further.
When faced with questions like this in experiments, people tend to give confidence bounds, or limits, that are too narrow. In other words, the correct answer is outside their limits much more than 20 percent of the time, creating too many surprises. (The answer to the moon question, by the way, is 2,160 miles. Were you surprised?)
Some economists have questioned whether such experimental findings are relevant in competitive markets. They suggest that students, who often serve as guinea pigs in such tests, are overconfident, but that the top managers in large companies are well calibrated. A recent paper, however, reveals that this hopeful view is itself overconfident.
In that paper, three financial economists -- Itzhak Ben-David of Ohio State University and John R. Graham and Campbell R. Harvey of Duke -- found that chief financial officers of major American corporations are not very good at forecasting the future. The authors' investigation used a quarterly survey of C.F.O.'s that Duke has been running since 2001. Among other things, the C.F.O.'s were asked about their expectations for the return of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index for the next year -- both their best guess and their 80 percent confidence limit. This means that in the example above, there would be a 10 percent chance that the return would be higher than the upper bound, and a 10 percent chance that it would be less than the lower one.
It turns out that C.F.O.'s, as a group, display terrible calibration. The actual market return over the next year fell between their 80 percent confidence limits only a third of the time, so these executives weren't particularly good at forecasting the stock market. In fact, their predictions were negatively correlated with actual returns. For example, in the survey conducted on Feb. 26, 2009, the C.F.O.'s made their most pessimistic predictions, expecting a market return of just 2.0 percent, with a lower bound of minus 10.2 percent. In fact, the market soared 42.6 percent over the next year.
It may be neither troubling nor surprising that C.F.O.'s can't accurately predict the stock market's path. If they could, they'd be running hedge funds and making billions. What is troubling, though, is that as a group, many of these executives apparently don't realize that they lack forecasting ability. And, just as important, they don't seem to be aware of how volatile the market can be, even in ''normal'' times.
Another intriguing finding is that their confidence limits widen after bear markets, mostly because estimates at the lower bound become more pessimistic. This puts a new light on the recent comment by Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, that the economic outlook was ''unusually uncertain.'' Although I instinctively share that assessment, these results suggest that it may be an illusion: Yes, things feel more uncertain after bad times, but severe market downturns tend to occur after long bull markets when we are feeling least uncertain. In the C.F.O. survey conducted in mid-2007, for example, the average lower bound was for a market return of 0.2 percent in the next year. In other words, the worst-case scenario anticipated by the group was a flat market. Of course, the market was soon to begin its plunge.
Just like C.F.O.'s, chief executives often suffer from overconfidence, which can cause them to act unwisely. For example, in a 1986 paper, the economist Richard Roll of the University of California, Los Angeles, suggested that overconfidence, or what he called hubris, could explain why companies pay large premiums to take over other businesses. These premiums seem puzzling because the acquiring companies often don't seem to profit from the takeovers. Professor Roll pointed out that the acquirers have typically done very well in the recent past, leading their C.E.O.'s to the mistaken belief that their success can be replicated in takeover targets once they are in charge of them.
PROFESSOR ROLL recently wrote another paper on this topic with three French collaborators. In this case, they investigated a particular form of hubris -- narcissism -- by using a simple and unobtrusive gauge that has been validated by psychologists: just count the number of times a person uses the first-person pronoun in communication. They found that the more narcissistic C.E.O.'s make more aggressive takeovers at higher prices than their more self-effacing brethren do, and that these aggressive takeovers aren't as well received by the stock market.
Two lessons emerge from these papers. First, we shouldn't expect that the competition to become a top manager will weed out overconfidence. In fact, the competition may tend to select overconfident people. One route to the corner office is to combine overconfidence with luck, which can be hard to distinguish from skill. C.E.O.'s who make it to the top this way will often stumble when their luck runs out.
The second lesson comes from Mark Twain: ''It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know for sure that just ain't so.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RECESSION (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); WRITERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



531 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Fiction Chronicle

BYLINE: By GREGORY BEYER. 
Gregory Beyer is a frequent contributor to The Times.

 BODY:
THE PEOPLE WHO WATCHED HER PASS BY By Scott Bradfield. 146 pp. Two Dollar Radio. Paper, $14.50.
Bradfield supplies a scant few orienting facts in the course of this challenging, original novel. At the start, a 3-year-old girl named Sal is kidnapped by the man who fixes her parents' water heater, then taken to live with him in a dingy bungalow near Los Angeles. From there it is a billowy adventure of a book, scarcely bound to the conventions of narrative, as Sal drifts through the world and meets an array of people with wildly varying motives, values and lifestyles. Nearly everybody wants something from this little girl in a ratty pink cotton dress. Some want to worship her. 
Others want to sexually abuse her. Still others, fueled by compassion or self-righteousness, yearn to protect her. Sal runs from all of them; when she does choose to stay with someone or other, it is because they do not want anything from her: ''The old man never told Sal what to do or think, so it wasn't like living with someone, or hiding behind somebody else's notion of who you were.'' In a book that supplies few answers, Bradfield's lavish eloquence is the presiding constant, and over time he allows brief, quenching glimpses of little Sal's character. Here, she flips through magazines in a laundromat where she is living: ''Most of the magazines contained glossy pictures of young ladies who looked the way Sal felt. Detached, slightly petulant, gloaming with fabric and conditioners, they stood in awkward poses, their heads cocked at odd angles to perceive a world beyond the one that kept perceiving them.''
HOLY WATER By James P. Othmer. 292 pp. Doubleday. $26.95.
At 32, Henry Tuhoe has failed to fend off an early-onset midlife crisis. His marriage is collapsing; the value of his house, in a New York City suburb, has plummeted; his job, for a deodorant company, bores him. Still, as Henry regretfully concedes, not even this onslaught of troubles can derail his safe and predictable life: ''If he were to write down how the next 50 years of his time on earth will play out, he is certain that he would get a troubling amount of it right.'' This changes when Henry is reassigned to oversee development of a customer service call center for a Vermont-based bottled water company. The catch is that he will be working from Galado, a tiny Asian country where one-third of the population lacks access to safe drinking water. Henry's broad cynicism permits appreciation of this irony, and with nothing to keep him in New York, he takes the job. The satirical ambitions of ''Holy Water'' are modest, since its targets -- corporate America, suburban drudgery, outsourcing, public relations -- are mostly sitting ducks. But Othmer, whose barreling, hypercaffeinated prose is often funny, is a gifted and observant dramatizer of aspects of American life often relegated to the unexamined pile of cultural buzzwords. Henry's misadventures abroad awaken his conscience, and the view from the third world prompts reflection on the life he left behind (as it turns out, there are worse fates than having a dull, well-paying job). As Galado's prince tells Henry: ''Despite your economy, your widening cultural void, your anti-intellectualism, your reality-TV approach to electing leaders, your fast-food addictions and thickening midsections -- despite all of this, what the world wants most is to act like America.''
GLORIOUS By Bernice L. McFadden. 239 pp. Akashic. Paper, $15.95.
Young Easter Bartlett's life in Jim Crow-ruled Georgia, in 1910, is dominated by racism. After her sister is brutally raped by a group of white boys, her family crumbles and Easter flees her hometown of Waycross, only to witness more brutal and unpunished instances of white cruelty. A chance encounter leads the book-loving girl ''up South'' to Harlem, where the stimuli of city life coax forth her burgeoning artistic sensibility. Standing on a subway platform, Easter stares ''down the dark throat of the tunnel'' and sees ''a pair of dim eyes peering back at her.'' McFadden's lively and loving rendering of New York hews closely to the jazz-inflected city of myth, and intersperses fictional characters with figures including Marcus Garvey, Langston Hughes and a libidinous Fats Waller. When Easter begins to gain recognition as a writer of short stories, she is initiated into a Harlem Renaissance milieu of interracial parties and intellectual life, but also the complicated and self-congratulatory culture of ''negrophilia,'' in which wealthy whites champion the works of black artists. Having escaped the South's overt, violent racism, Easter must navigate a far more nuanced brand of intolerance, cloaked in the pretense of acceptance. McFadden has a wonderful ear for dialogue, and her entertaining prose equally accommodates humor and pathos. Returning to Waycross late in life, under vastly different circumstances than her early literary promise might have suggested, Easter speaks to an admiring reporter from a Harlem newspaper: ''A still and steady silence fell over them. It was a deep and mournful quiet usually reserved for the dead. It was appropriate.''
WHAT HE'S POISED TO DO Stories. By Ben Greenman. 186 pp. Harper Perennial. Paper, $13.99.
In ''What He's Poised to Do,'' Greenman offers quiet, serious stories lifted by occasional humor and linked by instances of written correspondence. A postmark appears beside each story's title, stating the year and the place (i.e., Chicago, 1988). This conceit gives the collection a gimmicky charm; the stronger stories use it to their advantage by letting Greenman inhabit a range of voices, cultures and locales (including a moon colony and a made-up country). Among the collection's several epistolary stories is ''Country Life Is the Only Life Worth Living; Country Love Is the Only Love Worth Giving'' (the title reflects the collection's occasionally discomfiting self-indulgence). Postmarked Virginia, 1937, it is a letter from a poetry teacher to his former wife. The man describes his visit to the countryside with a woman named Lily; in embarrassingly flowery language, he conveys his plan to ravish her once they reach their cottage. Since Greenman does not furnish any details of the man's past relationship with his wife, his motive for writing is unclear. The effect is of stumbling upon a note written by someone you don't know to someone else you don't know. Elsewhere, Greenman withholds information for more potent dramatic effect, as in the lovely ''From the Front,'' in which the relationship between the letter writer and recipient is unclear until Greenman reveals it in a way both comic and unsettling.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: iDubai By Joel Sternfeld. 95 pp. Steidl. $38.Sternfeld (''American Prospects,'' ''Sweet Earth'') is fascinated by experimental utopias. In a departure from his lush, large-format landscapes, he used a cellphone camera in 2008 to capture the climate-controlled malls of Dubai, symbols of the emirate's ambitious growth. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOEL STERNFELD/STEIDL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HOME PRICES (76%); BOTTLED WATER (76%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); PSYCHOGRAPHICS (75%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (71%); CALL CENTERS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); VERMONT, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (59%) UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); ASIA (65%)

TITLE: People Who Watched Her Pass By, The (Book); Holy Water (Book); Glorious (Book); What He's Poised to Do (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



532 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Two Funds, Same Goal: Compensate

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; John Schwartz contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At first blush, it would seem that Kenneth R. Feinberg, the man tapped to dole out BP's $20 billion oil spill compensation fund, has been down this path before.
As the special master who administered the $7 billion Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund, he wrestled with visceral questions of how much money each victim of the attacks was entitled to, endured the occasional emotionally charged taunts and criticisms from widows and grieving relatives, and succeeded in persuading the families of a vast majority of the victims to accept cash settlements rather than file lawsuits.
But some analysts say his new assignment could prove even trickier. 
''Although he had a very difficult time placing a dollar value on human life, in some way that was a more straightforward job than estimating the long-term harm to a shrimper's business,'' said Richard A. Nagareda, a mass torts expert and law professor at Vanderbilt University.
The attacks of Sept. 11 were largely fixed in time and place, killing almost 3,000 in a morning and raining destruction on three distinct areas: Lower Manhattan, the Pentagon and a field in Pennsylvania.
The oil spill, by contrast, is more open-ended. When the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded, 11 workers were killed and oil was sent gushing into the Gulf of Mexico for months, damaging the environment and the economies of at least four states for what could well be years.
The two funds are different, too. The Sept. 11 fund was created to compensate people who were injured in the attacks and the families of people who were killed, while the oil spill fund will largely compensate people and businesses for lost income.
So Mr. Feinberg, a prominent Washington lawyer who has been chosen to untangle all sorts of thorny problems over the years, will have to sift through claims that will require him to estimate the amount of money that people in off-the-books jobs like fishing were earning, as well as the amount of income they stand to lose from a disaster whose long-term impact is still unclear.
Protocols that will guide the distribution of the oil spill fund, which Mr. Feinberg will administer independently even though it is being paid for by BP, place a premium on geographic proximity to the spill. So a gulf shrimper who was kept out of the waters should have an easy time getting paid, but the owner of a Memphis seafood restaurant who was forced to absorb higher seafood prices all summer will not.
Then there is the added potential for fraud. Of the 7,300 claims he processed for the Sept. 11 fund, Mr. Feinberg has said, only 35 were fraudulent. But most of those claims were fairly easily checked. ''You've got verification of death,'' he said in an interview earlier this year.
In the gulf, by contrast, he must consider thousands of claims from people who will have little documentation to prove how much they earned.
The uncertainty over the long-term effects of the spill adds another wrinkle. The idea of the spill fund is similar to that of the Sept. 11 fund: persuade people to accept settlements up front, rather than wait years for results of potentially costly litigation. But if people in the gulf accept settlements and waive the right to sue, and the long-term effects of the spill prove to be much worse than anticipated, they could find themselves in trouble down the road.
And comparing the dollar figures of the two funds can be misleading. The $7 billion Sept. 11 fund was only for those who died or were injured. Businesses separately received at least $23.3 billion, largely from insurance claims for property damage and interrupted business, but also through low-interest loans, government grants and tax breaks, according to a 2004 study by the RAND Corporation.
Deciding how much businesses were entitled to receive was not Mr. Feinberg's headache then. It is now.
The source of the money he is about to begin giving out is also different. The Sept. 11 fund was paid by taxpayers and set up by the federal government in part out of fears that mass lawsuits would cripple the country's airline industry. The oil spill fund will be paid by BP -- which agreed to set it up under pressure from the Obama administration -- and any of its partners that it can persuade to defray some of the cost. White House officials have said BP could be liable for more than $20 billion.
One thing is already clear: just as Mr. Feinberg found himself at times a lightning rod for the stinging criticism from Sept. 11 widows and grieving relatives -- though he was ultimately given high marks for his handling of the fund -- he is already getting a taste of the anger and emotion of many residents of the Gulf Coast.
''I mean, 9/11 was valuing lives that were traumatically extinguished, 3,000 of them,'' Mr. Feinberg said in an interview on ''The Charlie Rose Show'' on PBS shortly after he was chosen for the new job. ''Here there are 11 dead, 11 too many, in the rig explosion. But do not underestimate the emotion, the anger, the frustration that people in the gulf convey to me, this curveball. 'Why this accident? It wasn't my fault. I'm an innocent victim. Why wasn't this prevented? Why am I now suffering financially?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenneth R. Feinberg, administrator of the Sept. 11 victims fund and the BP oil spill fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); BP GULF SPILL CLAIMS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); BUSINESS TORTS (75%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); LAWYERS (71%); TORTS (70%); INTERVIEWS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



533 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; FOR SOCIAL SECURITY, A BIRTHDAY MAKEOVER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Chile's Way

BYLINE: By ESTELLE JAMES

 BODY:
Over the next two decades, 78 million Americans will quit working, quit paying into the Social Security system and start drawing benefits, straining the resources of our public pension system. 
Is there a way to persuade them to stay in the labor force -- continuing to contribute their skills and talent -- and postpone their Social Security payments?
Yes, there is, and Chile is showing us how. Sixty-two percent of Chilean men ages 60 to 69 were still in the work force in 2004, compared with 46 percent of American men that age. Among men ages 70 to 74, 31 percent of Chileans were still working, but only 19 percent of Americans.
Why the difference? Chile has a public retirement system, but after retirement age -- 65 for men, 60 for women -- people who keep working are no longer required to contribute to a pension fund. This increases their net wages, strongly encouraging them to continue working. Since 1981, when Chile put the system in place, labor force participation rates for men ages 65 to 70 have risen 13 percentage points.
Chilean public pensions are set up differently from Social Security. Workers contribute 10 percent of their wages to an individual account and choose a fund in which to invest it, earning a market rate of return. In retirement, workers can receive inflation-protected annuities or withdraw the money gradually. Workers can receive payments early (and stop contributing), once their retirement accounts are large enough to provide a pension that is at least 70 percent of their average wages and 150 percent of the government-guaranteed minimum benefit. But a man under age 65, or a woman under 60, who has not reached this target replacement rate cannot receive benefits -- and therefore must keep working.
In contrast, Americans can start receiving Social Security benefits at age 62, but if they keep working, they must keep contributing. And if they earn more than a minimum amount, they also see a reduction in their current monthly benefit. Both the early pension option and the earnings penalty discourage work.
Disabled Chilean pensioners, who, like disabled Americans, receive benefits before reaching retirement age, are likewise allowed to work and keep any wages earned, in addition to their disability benefits.
In a similar fashion, Chilean widows receive both their own pension benefits and their survivor's benefit -- unlike American widows, who must choose one or the other. That means Chilean women get a higher expected return on their contributions to the pension system, which helps explain why labor force participation rates for older women in Chile are growing even faster than those for men.
By postponing the age at which the pension can start, reducing the payroll tax on people over 65 and eliminating other penalties for work, the United States could also encourage older people to work. This would increase national income, expand the tax base, ease the financial burden on Social Security and help to finance pensions for our increasingly long lives. -- ESTELLE JAMES, senior fellow with the National Center for Policy Analysis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MEN (90%); WOMEN (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RETIREMENT AGE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHILE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



534 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; JOURNEYS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: In the Berkshires, Dinner's Not Far Away

BYLINE: By MARK VANHOENACKER

 BODY:
IT'S hard to dismiss the current locavore boom in the Berkshires as mere fashion. In fact, the national enthusiasm for eating farm-to-table has roots in western Massachusetts. The nation's first agricultural fair was held in Berkshire County in the early 19th century, and in 1986, when the country's first two community-supported agriculture farms were established, one was in the southern Berkshires.
Such farms, which offer a share of their harvest in exchange for a seasonal financial commitment, are now a mainstay of the farm-to-table movement. But it's no surprise that the idea found such fertile ground in the Berkshires, said Barbara Zheutlin, director of Berkshire Grown, an organization dedicated to the region's agriculture. Her group is another legacy of the vibrant, community-oriented food activism that was well under way by the mid-1980s.
This quiet history has no better modern incarnation than Susan Sellew, 60, maker of Monterey Chevre. Ms. Sellew, a native of New Marlborough, laughingly traces her skills to an affliction of ''Old MacDonald'' syndrome in the 1960s and '70s. Determined not to buy anything she could learn to make herself, she was soon preparing her own honey, maple syrup, sausages and soap. 
Goats were a source of food, but Ms. Sellew fell in love with their mischievous nature and obvious intelligence.
''They're like cats,'' she said. ''They believe everything they do is just perfect.'' Making cheese from their milk was an afterthought, ''the perfect justification to keep more goats,'' she said.
Three decades ago, Ms. Sellew returned to her grandfather's forested land in Monterey. She and her husband at the time, Wayne Dunlop, spent months clearing fields and building a barn from the lumber they cut. They named it Rawson Brook Farm.
Ms. Sellew has 50 animals and does not want more, so that she can follow personalities and physical traits from generation to generation. But flourishing demand for her cheese, and her policy of never refusing a local customer, means that it may be hard to find in urban markets. Nevertheless, look for Monterey Chevre in Zabar's in New York.
Better yet, stop by the farm (185 New Marlboro Road, Monterey; 413-528-2138), where the goats are named for constellations and Julia Roberts characters, and the rotating milking table, hand-fashioned by Ms. Sellew from a truck axle, bears an admonition to ''Honor the Udder.''
(Slide shows of Rawson Brook and other Berkshire farms are at berkshirefoodjournal.com.)
Ms. Sellew isn't immune to trends -- the goats occasionally snack on kelp -- but she's also been around long enough to understand that back-to-the-farm movements come and go. She sees the current round as different, especially in the Berkshires, where longstanding activism is supplemented by increasingly food-savvy tourists.
Frances Duncan, a locavore blogger, agrees.
''The Berkshires are really on the cusp of breaking into a more sustainable economy, via local foods and agriculture,'' she said. The result is not just an invigorated farming industry, she added, but an explosion of small, upscale producers.
Assembling a picnic is the best way to sample this bounty. If the most famous instance of Berkshires alfresco dining was the mountaintop luncheon of Herman Melville and Nathaniel Hawthorne in 1850, the modern, hike-free version is an evening repast on Tanglewood's music-lapped lawns.
For more than a quarter-century, Berkshire food lovers have bought many of their provisions at Guido's in Pittsfield (1020 South Street; 413-442-9912, guidosfreshmarketplace.com). This year there's another option in the city's resurgent downtown: the Market, a trendy, cleanly designed deli (391 North Street; 413-395-9766; themarketpittsfield.com). In addition to sandwiches, the Market sells artisanal ice cream, jams, cheeses and hot dogs of grass-fed beef -- all made in the region. Flying off the shelves with particular speed is Ooma Tesoro's marinara sauce, perfect on pasta or pizza and a storybook tale of small-business triumph. Then there's Berkshire Bark, a tiny chocolate producer founded in 2006. Just glancing at its Pretzelogical concoction probably costs half an hour on the treadmill, but it's worth every step.
White wine is the typical accompaniment to most starlit Tanglewood spreads. But some music may demand something stronger, in which case the buzz is all about Chris Weld at Berkshire Mountain Distillers in Sheffield.
Returning home from California in 2004, Mr. Weld searched for an innovation-friendly agricultural community and soon found an overgrown apple orchard on the site of a 19th-century spa. A biochemist, he thought of distilling, and by 2008 he was marketing a small collection of gin, vodka and rum to quick national acclaim.
More than a century ago, water from the spa on his property was sold as a curative in New York. Now spirits produced on the same soil are being sold at the Oyster Bar in Grand Central Terminal, and at modern speakeasies like PDT in the East Village. Mr. Weld's spirits are sold at restaurants in the Berkshires and also at Nejaime's Wine, which has three locations (800-946-3988; nejaimeswine.com).
Restaurants across the region are offering more opportunities to enjoy a locavore gin and tonic while someone else does the cooking. One of the best is Allium in Great Barrington (42/44 Railroad Street; 413-528-2118; alliumberkshires.com), where the friendliness of the servers seems uncompromised by their devotional knowledge of the entire menu's provenance. As this year's harvest rolls in, try dishes like heirloom tomatoes with raspberries and housemade ricotta.
The Berkshires' latest culinary hit, though, is Nudel, in Lenox (37 Church Street; 413-551-7183; nudelrestaurant.com), which Bjorn Somlo opened last fall.
Mr. Somlo, who previously cooked in New York, takes full advantage of his locale, often stopping by farms in the morning to choose ingredients for the evening menu. He's particularly keen to serve meat from nearby farms, so when a farmer offered lamb necks, Mr. Somlo turned them into dinner. More traditional cuts come from across the Berkshires and from Northeast Family Farms, an organization that links chefs to family-run farms.
The presumption on Nudel's menu is that everything is fresh: if a vegetable arrived frozen, it's labeled as such. Mr. Somlo's emphasis on openness is reflected in the architecture of his tiny restaurant, where diners can sit at a bar overlooking the kitchen.
In winter, of course, options for regional ingredients are more limited. Nudel's slogan is ''seasonally inspired,'' and in the off season Mr. Somlo obtains whatever he can nearby, ''while accepting the truth of where we are.'' For apres-ski, try his beef shank stew with Overmeade beets.
Even warmer months can bring some notoriously fickle weather in this part of the country (as Melville and Hawthorne found out when a thunderstorm interrupted their picnic).
Mr. Somlo has the versatility to roll with most meteorological punches. But such in-the-moment cooking doesn't preclude the occasional bout of nostalgia, most recently for this spring's asparagus, which was available for just 10 days before weather ruined the crop.
''That asparagus, it was awesome,'' he said with a sigh. ''And then it was gone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gin, vodka and rum are made at Berkshire Mountain Distillers in Sheffield, Mass. Food-savvy tourists are helping to spur a vibrant food-producing culture in western Massachusetts.
Susan Sellew's goats produce cheese at Rawson Brook Farm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE AND CENTER BELOW BY JENNIFER MAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Bjorn Somlo at work at Nudel, his restaurant in Lenox. He often buys ingredients directly from farmers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEESE (89%); MAMMALS (87%); ANIMALS (78%); CHEESE MFG (72%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (69%); CATS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010



535 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; WESTCHESTER DINING PATTERSON; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Steaks, Yes, but Aiming To Please All Appetites

BYLINE: By M. H. REED

 BODY:
TEN years ago, Jim Troetti, an experienced butcher, baker and restaurateur, and his family bought a rustic 1929 building in Patterson. It had been the home of L'Auberge Bretonne and, later, Jagerhaus. Mr. Troetti called it the Country House, then renamed it Steakhouse 22.
Set among many fast-food spots along a busy stretch of Route 22 in Putnam County, this Italian-American steakhouse fills the bill with sturdy fare. But we were surprised by a menu that offered a lot more than steak. Clearly, this is a restaurant that is out to please all appetites, at prices that reflect today's shaky economy. 
Not only were there quite a few lower-priced chicken, seafood and pasta dishes listed, but the owner has also created a number of special deals. Weeknight early-bird dinners include a selection of two-for-one drinks at the bar. At lunch, a fast-food menu -- fancy hot dogs, sausage and peppers on a roll, wraps and the like ($2.50 to $4.75) -- is offered in the dining areas and at the drive-in window of the bright yellow Gourmet Express catering truck in the restaurant's parking lot.
Be seated by 7 p.m. on Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, and the New York strip steak and other entrees, like the center-cut pork chops or barbecue short ribs, go for $13 to $15 (and that includes soup or salad, two vegetables, coffee and dessert). These early-bird dinners -- quite a few of which are priced on the regular menu at more than $20 -- do not stint on high-end ingredients.
Even if you're not an early bird, the prices are reasonable, considering the generous portions; my guests and I took home a weighty bag of leftovers. The menu lists salads, but since a salad comes with the entree, we went for an appetizer. Steamed clams in a savory broth that was chunky with tomato, celery, onion and garlic could have served as a main dish for anyone with a modest appetite. And lightly baked clams casino -- with chopped bacon, sweet pepper and garlic butter -- were also appealing. But the crab cake, with its ''spiced-up'' tartar sauce, was surprisingly bland.
Our waitress misled us in saying that the kitchen prepares only full portions (instead of appetizer half-portions) of penne with crumbled sausage and broccoli. Instead of the single portion ($17) we thought we had ordered -- and this would have served two diners handsomely -- we were brought a so-called full serving ($27), enough for four or five hungry diners to share. Luckily, the dish turned out to be terrific, the sausage, outstanding.
But we were there for steak. Mr. Troetti butchers the meat himself, and steaks can come three and four inches thick. (The menu's sidebar helps to define the range of doneness.) Our filet mignon, a special, was the least successful of our meat selections. Medium-rare it was, and certainly thick enough, but it was bloodless, as were other cuts of beef, although the flavor and tenderness of the rib-eye, filet mignon and New York strip steak almost compensated for the lack of juices.
Other entrees were equally tasty. Apple-cranberry sauce went nicely with the breaded double-cut pork chops, and chili sauce enlivened a house special burger ($10) with sour cream and onion. French fries and freshly made German-style coleslaw filled out the plate.
Mr. Troetti also bakes his own desserts. Share if you must, but go for the warm fruit turnover; ours was luscious blueberry, enfolded in perfect pastry.
Considering the home baking and butchering, the hospitality, the prices and the bonus view -- of valley and sunset from the restaurant's back rooms and deck -- Steakhouse 22 is a fine stop on your way to anywhere.
Steakhouse 22
2693 Route 22, Patterson
(845) 878-9877, steakhouse22.com
WORTH IT
THE SPACE Eighty-year old roadhouse with a large, rustic central dining room featuring a stone fireplace and cypress paneling. Valley and sunset view from an intimate dining room, a glass-enclosed porch and a roomy covered deck strung with jolly pin lights -- all at the back of the restaurant. Handicapped accessible.
THE CROWD From the neighborhood and those passing through on this well-traveled north-south thoroughfare.
THE BAR Full separate bar. Bottles on the wine list are mostly under $30.
THE BILL Lunch: sandwiches, burgers and entrees, $9 to $14.50. Dinner: sandwiches and burgers, $9 to $13; pasta, $14 to $25; entrees, $16 to $26 (salad and a choice of side included). Complete early-bird dinners, $13 to $15.
WHAT WE LIKED Steamed clams; penne with sausage and broccoli, rib-eye steak, New York strip steak, double-cut pork chops, special house burger; blueberry turnover with vanilla ice cream.
IF YOU GO Lunch: Tuesday through Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Dinner: Tuesday through Saturday, 5 to 10 p.m.; Sunday, 3 to 8 p.m. Early-bird dinners: Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, 5 to 7 p.m. Gourmet Express truck service, Sunday to Friday, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. (call ahead for pickup).
RATINGS Don't Miss, Worth It, O.K., Don't Bother.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AMBIENCE IN ABUNDANCE: The deck at Steakhouse 22 offers a view of valley and sunset. At left, the grilled rib-eye steak. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); PORK (78%); BEEF (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); CATERING SERVICES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



536 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Betting on Growth While Playing Defense

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
INVESTORS shifted from full-blown fear as the stock market plummeted in 2008 to a mood of rampant risk-taking after the market took off in March 2009. They have now become nervous again, or so the conventional wisdom goes.
There is certainly some truth in it. Amid growing concerns of another global economic slowdown, investors have rushed into ultrasafe Treasury bonds in recent months, pushing yields down to an astonishingly low 2.6 percent from 3.8 percent in late April. 
But that's not all that's going on. ''Simply focusing on low Treasury yields paints a distorted picture of this market,'' said Marilyn Cohen, president of Envision Capital Management in Los Angeles.
For instance, while investors have been retreating to government bonds, they've also been pouring new money into so-called risk assets like junk bonds, emerging-market debt and emerging-market stocks. With so much attention being paid to the Treasury market, these trends have gone largely unnoticed, Ms. Cohen said.
In fact, this year through Wednesday, a net total of $21 billion flowed into mutual funds and exchange-traded funds that concentrate on stocks based in fast-growing developing economies like China, India and Latin America, according to Lipper, the mutual fund tracker. By comparison, investors pulled a net $8 billion from domestic equity funds, even though domestic stocks are considered a core holding.
Meanwhile, high-yield or junk bond funds -- which were crushed in 2008, when investors fled assets that exposed them to credit risk -- have attracted around $4.5 billion in new money.
James W. Paulsen, the Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management, adds that, at least in comparison with the dark days of 2008, there are other signs investors aren't as risk averse as the trend in Treasury yields may imply.
He noted that even though investors seem genuinely concerned about the health of the recovery, two of the best-performing sectors this year have been industrial stocks and shares of consumer discretionary companies, which are both economically sensitive areas of the market.
''That says that this 'risk on, risk off' environment we've been in is fading a bit,'' he added.
If the mood of the market is no longer so black and white, what are the investment implications?
At the very least, it means that asset classes may not move in lock step with one another and that diversification -- the strategy of owning different types of assets at all times -- still matters, said Lewis R. Piantedosi, a portfolio manager at Eaton Vance Management in Boston.
For instance, two years ago, when fear dominated the market amid the global financial crisis, virtually every type of investment -- with the exception of Treasury bonds -- sank as investors headed for the sidelines. Then, last year, starting with the market rally in March, virtually every type of asset rebounded in coordinated fashion.
In both years, investors were left wondering whether diversification worked.
But that's not been a problem so far this year. Investors have witnessed a wide range in performance among asset classes, from the 23 percent surge in long-term government bond funds to the 2 percent gain in emerging-market stock funds to the 3 percent decline in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to the 5 percent fall in European shares.
Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer, noted that this bifurcated market, where investors are simultaneously seeking the safety of Treasury bonds and capturing the growth of emerging markets, might simply be a case of people ''buying what's been working.''
For example, both emerging-market stocks and emerging-market bonds have outperformed domestic equities, just as Treasury bond funds have. According to Morningstar, the average diversified emerging-market stock fund is up 2 percent this year, while domestic shares are down around 3 percent. The typical emerging-market bond fund is up more than 11 percent.
THIS environment would seem to call for a barbell-like strategy with one's portfolio, Mr. Belski said.
He suggests betting simultaneously on the growth potential in a recovering global economy -- for instance, by investing in those economically sensitive sectors of the market -- while also holding more defensive shares like dividend-paying blue-chip stocks.
That way, investors will benefit if the recovery strengthens and there is a swing back to risk taking. But at the same time, he said, such a diversified strategy will provide some cushion if volatility rises and fear wins out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); BONDS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TRENDS (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); BOND FUNDS (79%); RISK MANAGEMENT (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%)

COMPANY: EATON VANCE MANAGEMENT (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



537 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 810 words

PERSON: Harrison Price 

HEADLINE: Harrison Price, 89, a Planner of Disney Parks, Dies

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Harrison Price, an internationally known research economist who told the developers of the world's most famous theme parks where to situate them -- in the process putting Disneyland in Anaheim, Calif., and Walt Disney World in Orlando, Fla. -- died on Aug. 15 in Pomona, Calif. He was 89.
Mr. Price, a Pomona resident, died of chronic anemia, his son David said. 
Trained in economics and engineering, Mr. Price was a founder and very likely the best-known practitioner of the enterprise sometimes called leisure-time economic analysis.
The field, which straddles entertainment, economics, sociology, real estate, time-and-motion studies, architecture and planning, was born at midcentury, when developers of outdoor amusements began seeking the most profitable means of pulling people away from the television and out of the house.
For five decades, Mr. Price was a sought-after independent consultant to the makers of theme parks, amusement parks, zoos, museums and other large-scale spectacles. It is widely agreed that his work helped shape significantly the landscape of postwar American amusement.
In 1999, the entertainment trade publication Variety called Mr. Price ''the dean of recreation economics.''
Besides the Walt Disney Company his clients included SeaWorld, Knott's Berry Farm, the Six Flags amusement park chain and many World's Fairs.
Mr. Price was a professional measurer. In thousands of studies, he calibrated factors like geography, demographics, weather and traffic patterns to help clients answer two vital questions: If we build it, will they come? and If they come, how many of them will there be?
To analyze his data, Mr. Price devised a set of algorithms he called ''roller-coaster math.'' Among the things he would quantify, for instance, was the length of time patrons might stand in line to board an amusement park ride.
''If people are waiting around too long, you're not going to be profitable,'' he told The Desert Sun of Palm Springs, Calif., in 2004. ''But if they're going through the park too fast, that's also not good.''
Mr. Price was best known for his work for Disney, for which he produced more than 150 feasibility, marketing and site-selection studies. His association with the company began in 1953, after Walt Disney and his brother Roy O. Disney consulted him about the best place to erect a family-oriented theme park, to be known as Disneyland.
At the time, Mr. Price was on the staff of the Stanford Research Institute, a business consultancy. Weighing several Southern California locations, he determined that Anaheim, then a largely rural place of citrus groves, would be the most temperate, accessible and, above all, profitable.
The Disney company acquired 160 acres there, and Disneyland opened in 1955.
''Walt was a dreamer, but he had a very workmanlike curiosity about how things functioned, and whether what he was talking about would actually work,'' Mr. Price said in the Desert Sun interview.
At Walt Disney's urging, Mr. Price founded his own consultancy, Economics Research Associates, in 1958. He sold the business in 1969; in 1978 he founded the Harrison Price Company, which he closed on his retirement in 2005.
Harrison Alan Price, familiarly known as Buzz, was born on May 17, 1921, in Oregon City, Ore., and reared in Southern California. As a child, he later said, he was a ''numbers geek,'' the kind of boy who kept a careful tally of the number of times he played each phonograph record in his collection.
Mr. Price received a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from the California Institute of Technology in 1942. After Army service in World War II, he earned an M.B.A. from Stanford in 1951.
Besides his son David, Mr. Price is survived by his wife, Anne Shaw Price, whom he married in 1944; another son, Bret; two daughters, Dana Price and Holly Shaw Ristuccia; a sister, Patricia Scott Mannarino; nine grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
He was the author of a business memoir, ''Walt's Revolution! By the Numbers'' (Ripley Entertainment, 2004).
Other projects on which Mr. Price consulted include the 1964 World's Fair in New York and the 1984 Louisiana World Exposition in New Orleans. For Disney, he helped choose the location of Tokyo Disneyland, which opened in 1983 in Chiba, Japan.
He also oversaw the creation of the California Institute of the Arts, a project of Walt Disney's that Mr. Price helped shepherd into being after Mr. Disney's death in 1966.
In his long career, Mr. Price made one strategic decision that, it is safe to assume, has earned him the deep retrospective gratitude of Gotham.
In the 1960s, wishing to build a theme park on the East Coast, Disney commissioned Mr. Price to find a suitable location. Among the sites he considered for the new park, to be called Walt Disney World, were Orlando, Fla., and New York City.
Mr. Price ran his numbers and chose Orlando.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harrison Price, right, holds plans for Disneyland. From left are Walt Disney and C. V. Wood Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WALT DISNEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); FAMILY TRAVEL (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (75%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); CITRUS GROVES (65%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (87%); KNOTT'S BERRY FARM FOODS INC (67%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (58%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (87%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (87%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (87%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (87%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



538 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: For China, Will Money Bring Power?

BYLINE: By PIERS BRENDON. 
Piers Brendon, a fellow of Churchill College, Cambridge University, is the author of ''The Decline and Fall of the British Empire.''

 BODY:
Cambridge, England
'' WHEN China awakes,'' Napoleon is said to have warned, ''the world will tremble.'' For more than a century and a half after his time, that prospect seemed remote.
The ancient civilization became a byword for isolation and stagnation. China's decadent emperors were immured behind the Great Wall and inside the Forbidden City. Its vaunted invention of gunpowder had spluttered into firecrackers. Its art of printing had withered into the production of stereotyped editions of Confucius. Its navy was antediluvian: mandarins tried to emulate Western paddle-steamers with junks propelled by coolies turning treadmills.
China was devastated by flood, famine, rebellion, warlordism, invasion, civil strife and, finally, a Communist dictatorship. It's all the more of a shock, then, that the sleeping dragon has now awoken with a vengeance.
As the media have breathlessly reported, China has just overtaken Japan as the world's second largest economy, and bids fair to knock the United States from the top spot within 20 years. Ever since Deng Xiaoping embarked on his ''second revolution'' in 1978, introducing free market reforms and opening up to the outside world, China's economy has grown by almost 10 percent a year -- one of the most sustained expansions in history. 
Deng retained socialist control while permitting capitalist enterprise, a well-nigh miraculous achievement that resulted in the creation of another workshop of the world. The crucial question is: how will China use its new-found wealth?
The traditional answer is that rich countries tend to equip themselves with the sinews of war in order to enhance their position at the expense of rivals. According to the dominant economic philosophy of the 18th century -- mercantilism -- wealth and power are interchangeable, each helping in the acquisition of the other.
Thus Britain used its economic predominance after the Industrial Revolution to establish global hegemony. Protected by the fleet, its multiplying colonies supplied the mother country with raw materials and bought her manufactured goods. But by 1914 Germany was easily out-producing Britain, and Kaiser Wilhelm's challenge to the Royal Navy's supremacy did much to precipitate the First World War.
However, history does offer alternative answers -- and the case of America is particularly pertinent. The economy of the United States overtook that of Britain in the 1870s, and by 1914 it was nearly three times as large. A small island making steam engines by hand inevitably fell behind a bountiful continent that mass-produced motor cars on assembly lines.
It also seemed inevitable that the United States, particularly under the internationalist leadership of Presidents William McKinley and Theodore Roosevelt, would mount its own challenge to the British Empire by translating its economic strength into military might. Uncle Sam did arm, of course, during the conflict with Spain and World War I, creating an outstanding Navy.
But for the most part, the nation's business was business. In the 1890s it was suggested that the State Department should close down because it had so little to do. And during the isolationist period between the two world wars, when at its peak America was responsible for nearly 40 percent of the world's manufacturing output, the United States Army was around the 17th-largest on the planet.
In other words, the military of the world's richest nation amounted to hardly more than a border constabulary armed with obsolete equipment like 1903 Springfield rifles. During the Depression, cash was so tight that its best officer, a bald-headed major named Dwight D. Eisenhower, had to make a requisition for his streetcar fare between the War Department building and the Capitol.
Needless to say, Axis aggression transformed the United States into a military-industrial colossus. It so galvanized a depressed economy that the historian Niall Ferguson of Harvard has been moved to dwell on ''the benefits of militarism.'' Indeed, in his 2001 book ''The Cash Nexus,'' Mr. Ferguson argued that the ''imperial America'' should devote ''a larger percentage of its vast resources to making the world safe for capitalism and democracy.'' He regretted, however, that the United States was unlikely to impose ''the rule of law in countries like Iraq,'' partly because of ''a pusillanimous fear of military casualties.''
Historians get many things wrong when they interpret the past and most things wrong when they forecast the future. So Niall Ferguson may also be mistaken when he dismisses as hopelessly unrealistic the view of Adam Smith and his disciples that peace promotes prosperity, and vice versa, through the operation of free trade. Market forces act in the moral world, said the 19th-century British politician Richard Cobden, like ''the principle of gravitation in the universe -- drawing men together and thrusting aside the antagonism of race, and creed, and language.'' Certainly this is an ideal to which China has at least paid lip service since the end of the cold war, asserting that globalization fosters international cooperation.
Recall that at the start of the new millennium, a consensus existed among China-watchers that the Red Menace was as much of a mare's-nest as the Yellow Peril. Like the United States before Pearl Harbor, China would concentrate on butter not guns, harmonizing its interests with those of its competitors through the peaceful mechanism of the open market. There was much talk of an entente between China and Japan, even of a Chinese-American alliance to maintain stability, fight poverty, tackle global warming and so on.
No doubt much of this was wishful thinking. Indeed, such soft soap may well have been part of a charm offensive by China, culminating in the Beijing Olympics of 2008, designed to mask the true character of a monstrous tyranny that was made manifest on Tiananmen Square in 1989.
Whatever the truth, informed opinion is now divided about Chinese intentions. Some pundits maintain that the fundamental assumption of China's leaders is that conflict is part of the human condition, the only way of resolving differences in a perilous world. A recent comprehensive survey of Chinese authors revealed that most anticipate a repeat of the ''warring states era in Chinese history.'' Is not hostility toward ''foreign barbarians'' China's default state?
There are, at any rate, obvious signs that the awakened dragon is flexing its muscles. China's defense budget rose to be the second highest in the world in 2008, and its naval (particularly submarine) buildup has, in the opinion of the American journalist Robert D. Kaplan, caused ''the loss of the Pacific Ocean as an American lake.'' In search of markets and natural resources, China is expanding its influence aggressively in Asia, the Middle East, Africa and South America.
On the other hand, China's 6.6 percent share of global expenditure on arms is dwarfed by America's 46.5 percent. And, like the United States during and after the reconstruction era, modern China is preoccupied by the problems associated with rapid growth: pollution, corruption, rural poverty, urban overcrowding and troubled labor relations. Above all, its leaders have to keep the lid on the simmering political and ethnic cauldron, while at the same time preventing the economic bubble from bursting -- as Japan's did.
China may well keep its promise, for the moment at least, to follow the path of peaceful development. We can't know, of course. But doom-merchants predicting that China will topple America from its pre-eminence should recognize that history is not necessarily on their side.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR I (89%); NAVIES (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MARINE VESSELS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



539 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: $375,000 Lexus: Ferrari Fighter or Exotic Fantasy?

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
MILLVILLE, N.J.
IN the hermetic bubble of a racetrack -- where economic reality has no pit pass -- the Lexus LFA makes perfect, glorious sense.
As I rocket around New Jersey Motorsports Park, this supercar physically compels me to switch off skepticism, pay heed to the racing line and happily marinate in waves of sensory stimulation: the Formula One shriek of its 552-horsepower V-10, the tightrope balance and technical precision that makes even a Corvette ZR-1 feel like a Tinkertoy.
Hurry, ask me while I'm still in the driver's seat: is the LFA worth $375,000? Sure, for the rare person who would prefer a supercar from Japan, not Europe.
Ask the same question after I've skimmed the latest unemployment figures or calculated the relative fun of, say, a $135,000 Porsche 911 Turbo, and the answer is, what, are you nuts? 
Such contradictions make the LFA fodder for one of the year's most interesting auto debates. Judged purely as an adrenaline-inducing performance tool, the Lexus tops a number of supercars I've driven -- not just the similiarly priced Lamborghini Murcielago, but also the $1.3 million Bugatti Veyron.
As any car snob will remind you, Lexus is not Bugatti, or even Porsche. Created by Toyota just 20 years ago, Lexus can't bank on the car-museum prestige or racing pedigree that makes millionaires' hearts go flutter. And with apologies to Lexus, I have yet to hear anyone describe the LFA as beautiful. Even Lexus hasn't spent much time strewing flowery adjectives over the styling, whose brute functionality recalls an Asian ''Fast and Furious'' movie car -- albeit one on a billionaire's budget.
What the LFA can claim is racecar-level thrills in a surprisingly comfortable, street-friendly car, developed in a cost-is-no-object program that lasted a decade. That, and exclusivity: the prototype I drove was the only LFA in the United States at the time. And, starting in December, just 500 copies will be built over two years, with 171 coming to America.
Fifty of the 500 buyers will get a higher-performing Nurburgring edition, whose $445,000 price includes driving lessons -- a good idea -- and a year's pass at the famous 12.9-mile German road course for which it's named.
During the LFA's vexingly long gestation, Lexus showed a concept in Detroit back in 2005. Four years later, Toyota's incoming president, Akio Toyoda, proved he wasn't all about hybrids, racing an LFA prototype with three other drivers in the 24 Hours of Nurburgring. Not surprisingly, Toyota's bosses soon approved the car for a limited factory run.
The production car is built around a carbon-fiber tub; a 4.8-liter V-10 that blisters the tachometer as it zings to 9,000 r.p.m.; and a center of gravity just 18 inches above the pavement.
Five years into the project, Lexus essentially started over. Realizing the car's planned aluminum structure wouldn't meet their performance targets, engineers substituted lighter carbon composite. Toyota -- which officials note was started in the 1920s as the Toyoda Automatic Loom Company -- had to create a unique loom to weave carbon fiber for the front roof pillars. In tandem with Yamaha engineers, Lexus tuned the engine and exhaust note as if it were a musical instrument, including a dashboard that admits only certain frequencies into the cabin. That might explain the television commercial that shows the LFA shattering not the asphalt but a champagne flute, with a crescendo of its soaring metallic tenor.
Tellingly, that ad doesn't even mention the LFA by name. As with most ''halo cars,'' Lexus isn't really selling the car, but the brand, said Paul Rohovsky, Lexus's manager for advanced business development.
That halo-car strategy might seem logical for a Ferrari or even a BMW, whose owners obsess over performance and seek bragging rights. But will the typically conservative Lexus buyer appreciate that the brand that produced his cocoonlike LS sedan also makes the LFA? Or might a Lexus or Toyota hybrid fan wonder why Lexus is indulging fantasies with a fuel-thirsty supercar?
Mr. Rohovsky said Lexus fans were similar to the followers of other luxury marques, aspiring to the best a manufacturer can offer. ''If we can do this kind of high-tech product, it tells people we can provide similar technology in your everyday car,'' he said.
Mr. Rohovsky recalls driving the LFA in Southern California when the beaming owner of a Lexus IS-F sport sedan pulled alongside.
''He rolled down his window and said, 'That's what I want, baby,''' Mr. Rohovsky said. ''He looked like the happiest guy in the world.''
Inside the LFA, the halo effect includes a 3.6-second sprint from 0 to 60 miles per hour and a top speed of 202 m.p.h. Plenty of sports cars today, including the Corvette ZR-1, can claim similar numbers, and many cost a fraction of the LFA's price. Those calculations naturally lead skeptics to dismiss the Lexus as overpriced. But number crunchers often don't realize that statistics say little about what a car is like to drive -- or how it makes an owner feel.
An initial 150 cars set aside for Americans had been spoken for by June, when Lexus allocated 21 more. For those who can't spell ''recession,'' a few slots remain open. And Lexus has also eliminated a litmus test that ruffled the feathers of enthusists.
Determined to bar speculators from flipping LFAs for a quick profit, Lexus had initially set up the deals to resemble a lease -- albeit one that required a customer to hand over $290,000 in cash up front, with a $93,000 option to own the LFA after 24 months.
After that stipulation gave some prospects cold feet -- over issues including owner liquidity and possible entanglements in the event of a death or divorce -- Lexus relented, offering customers a choice of buying or financing the car. One catch: if an owner decides to sell within two years, Lexus keeps first option to buy back the LFA at fair market value, but not for more than the original sticker price. Lexus is also vetting buyers, seeking those who will drive their LFAs as a rolling advertisement rather than stash them away in collections.
The day before my test drive, a handful of LFA prospects had been invited to the track here, including some who needed a test drive before answering the $375,000 question. Mr. Rohovsky said that at each of four such events held around the country, at least one prospect stepped from the car and said, ''Where do I sign? I'm ready to go.''
So far American buyers are exclusively men, and on average are in their mid-50s. Many have owned a Lexus, and they tend to be entrepreneurial types, along with one sports star whose name Lexus would not divulge.
Nor would Lexus connect me to the Midwest man who, Lexus swears, is leaning toward an LFA painted Passionate Pink, one of 30 available colors. (Mr. Mary Kay, perhaps?)
Mr. Rohovsky did allow that one ''fresh green'' LFA -- a petri-dish shade wild enough for any Lamborghini fan -- is headed to -- where else? -- Miami.
''He told me, 'I want people to see me coming and going,''' Mr. Rohovsky said.
More than any luxury car maker, Lexus has been stereotyped, sometimes crudely, as the antiperformance brand, the epitome of masterfully built but soporific and soulless cars. Yet when Lexus does manage to create a car like the IS-F, a wildly fun-to-drive sport sedan, enthusiasts turn the argument around and question why any Lexus buyer would want one.
For those reasons, no matter how loopily unattainable the LFA may be, I'd hate to discourage Lexus from the sort of moon shot that the LFA represents. Getting out of the driver's seat, I realized that I may never drive this rare supercar again. But that's all right.
The LFA -- like the Dodge Viper -- is the kind of machine that might inspire Lexus or Toyota to inject some spirit into their lineups, or to create sports cars that real people can afford. If that happens, I'll gladly volunteer to polish Lexus's halo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SPREADING THE GLOW: The LFA is intended as a ''halo car'' to enhance public perceptions of the Lexus brand. (AU1)
 QUICK STUDY: At $445,000, the Nurburgring edition includes driving lessons. (AU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); BUDGETS (78%); FORMULA ONE RACING (78%); DRIVER EDUCATION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); APPROVALS (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



540 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: $375,000 Lexus: Ferrari Fighter or Exotic Fantasy?

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
MILLVILLE, N.J.
IN the hermetic bubble of a racetrack -- where economic reality has no pit pass -- the Lexus LFA makes perfect, glorious sense.
As I rocket around New Jersey Motorsports Park, this supercar physically compels me to switch off skepticism, pay heed to the racing line and happily marinate in waves of sensory stimulation: the Formula One shriek of its 552-horsepower V-10, the tightrope balance and technical precision that makes even a Corvette ZR-1 feel like a Tinkertoy.
Hurry, ask me while I'm still in the driver's seat: is the LFA worth $375,000? Sure, for the rare person who would prefer a supercar from Japan, not Europe.
Ask the same question after I've skimmed the latest unemployment figures or calculated the relative fun of, say, a $135,000 Porsche 911 Turbo, and the answer is, what, are you nuts? 
Such contradictions make the LFA fodder for one of the year's most interesting auto debates. Judged purely as an adrenaline-inducing performance tool, the Lexus tops a number of supercars I've driven -- not just the similiarly priced Lamborghini Murcielago, but also the $1.3 million Bugatti Veyron.
As any car snob will remind you, Lexus is not Bugatti, or even Porsche. Created by Toyota just 20 years ago, Lexus can't bank on the car-museum prestige or racing pedigree that makes millionaires' hearts go flutter. And with apologies to Lexus, I have yet to hear anyone describe the LFA as beautiful. Even Lexus hasn't spent much time strewing flowery adjectives over the styling, whose brute functionality recalls an Asian ''Fast and Furious'' movie car -- albeit one on a billionaire's budget.
What the LFA can claim is racecar-level thrills in a surprisingly comfortable, street-friendly car, developed in a cost-is-no-object program that lasted a decade. That, and exclusivity: the prototype I drove was the only LFA in the United States at the time. And, starting in December, just 500 copies will be built over two years, with 171 coming to America.
Fifty of the 500 buyers will get a higher-performing Nurburgring edition, whose $445,000 price includes driving lessons -- a good idea -- and a year's pass at the famous 12.9-mile German road course for which it's named.
During the LFA's vexingly long gestation, Lexus showed a concept in Detroit back in 2005. Four years later, Toyota's incoming president, Akio Toyoda, proved he wasn't all about hybrids, racing an LFA prototype with three other drivers in the 24 Hours of Nurburgring. Not surprisingly, Toyota's bosses soon approved the car for a limited factory run.
The production car is built around a carbon-fiber tub; a 4.8-liter V-10 that blisters the tachometer as it zings to 9,000 r.p.m.; and a center of gravity just 18 inches above the pavement.
Five years into the project, Lexus essentially started over. Realizing the car's planned aluminum structure wouldn't meet their performance targets, engineers substituted lighter carbon composite. Toyota -- which officials note was started in the 1920s as the Toyoda Automatic Loom Company -- had to create a unique loom to weave carbon fiber for the front roof pillars. In tandem with Yamaha engineers, Lexus tuned the engine and exhaust note as if it were a musical instrument, including a dashboard that admits only certain frequencies into the cabin. That might explain the television commercial that shows the LFA shattering not the asphalt but a champagne flute, with a crescendo of its soaring metallic tenor.
Tellingly, that ad doesn't even mention the LFA by name. As with most ''halo cars,'' Lexus isn't really selling the car, but the brand, said Paul Rohovsky, Lexus's manager for advanced business development.
That halo-car strategy might seem logical for a Ferrari or even a BMW, whose owners obsess over performance and seek bragging rights. But will the typically conservative Lexus buyer appreciate that the brand that produced his cocoonlike LS sedan also makes the LFA? Or might a Lexus or Toyota hybrid fan wonder why Lexus is indulging fantasies with a fuel-thirsty supercar?
Mr. Rohovsky said Lexus fans were similar to the followers of other luxury marques, aspiring to the best a manufacturer can offer. ''If we can do this kind of high-tech product, it tells people we can provide similar technology in your everyday car,'' he said.
Mr. Rohovsky recalls driving the LFA in Southern California when the beaming owner of a Lexus IS-F sport sedan pulled alongside.
''He rolled down his window and said, 'That's what I want, baby,''' Mr. Rohovsky said. ''He looked like the happiest guy in the world.''
Inside the LFA, the halo effect includes a 3.6-second sprint from 0 to 60 miles per hour and a top speed of 202 m.p.h. Plenty of sports cars today, including the Corvette ZR-1, can claim similar numbers, and many cost a fraction of the LFA's price. Those calculations naturally lead skeptics to dismiss the Lexus as overpriced. But number crunchers often don't realize that statistics say little about what a car is like to drive -- or how it makes an owner feel.
An initial 150 cars set aside for Americans had been spoken for by June, when Lexus allocated 21 more. For those who can't spell ''recession,'' a few slots remain open. And Lexus has also eliminated a litmus test that ruffled the feathers of enthusists.
Determined to bar speculators from flipping LFAs for a quick profit, Lexus had initially set up the deals to resemble a lease -- albeit one that required a customer to hand over $290,000 in cash up front, with a $93,000 option to own the LFA after 24 months.
After that stipulation gave some prospects cold feet -- over issues including owner liquidity and possible entanglements in the event of a death or divorce -- Lexus relented, offering customers a choice of buying or financing the car. One catch: if an owner decides to sell within two years, Lexus keeps first option to buy back the LFA at fair market value, but not for more than the original sticker price. Lexus is also vetting buyers, seeking those who will drive their LFAs as a rolling advertisement rather than stash them away in collections.
The day before my test drive, a handful of LFA prospects had been invited to the track here, including some who needed a test drive before answering the $375,000 question. Mr. Rohovsky said that at each of four such events held around the country, at least one prospect stepped from the car and said, ''Where do I sign? I'm ready to go.''
So far American buyers are exclusively men, and on average are in their mid-50s. Many have owned a Lexus, and they tend to be entrepreneurial types, along with one sports star whose name Lexus would not divulge.
Nor would Lexus connect me to the Midwest man who, Lexus swears, is leaning toward an LFA painted Passionate Pink, one of 30 available colors. (Mr. Mary Kay, perhaps?)
Mr. Rohovsky did allow that one ''fresh green'' LFA -- a petri-dish shade wild enough for any Lamborghini fan -- is headed to -- where else? -- Miami.
''He told me, 'I want people to see me coming and going,''' Mr. Rohovsky said.
More than any luxury car maker, Lexus has been stereotyped, sometimes crudely, as the antiperformance brand, the epitome of masterfully built but soporific and soulless cars. Yet when Lexus does manage to create a car like the IS-F, a wildly fun-to-drive sport sedan, enthusiasts turn the argument around and question why any Lexus buyer would want one.
For those reasons, no matter how loopily unattainable the LFA may be, I'd hate to discourage Lexus from the sort of moon shot that the LFA represents. Getting out of the driver's seat, I realized that I may never drive this rare supercar again. But that's all right.
The LFA -- like the Dodge Viper -- is the kind of machine that might inspire Lexus or Toyota to inject some spirit into their lineups, or to create sports cars that real people can afford. If that happens, I'll gladly volunteer to polish Lexus's halo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SPREADING THE GLOW: The LFA is intended as a ''halo car'' to enhance public perceptions of the Lexus brand. (AU1)
 QUICK STUDY: At $445,000, the Nurburgring edition includes driving lessons. (AU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); BUDGETS (78%); FORMULA ONE RACING (78%); DRIVER EDUCATION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); APPROVALS (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



541 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 4666 words

HEADLINE: The 60th Democrat

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOKOLOVE. 
Michael Sokolove is a contributing writer for the magazine. He writes frequently about Pennsylvania politics.

 BODY:
Joe Sestak stepped out of a Chevy Suburban on the morning of July 3 and met up with a group of 15 campaign volunteers gathered in the parking lot of a drugstore in Canonsburg, Pa., just southwest of Pittsburgh. The town is the birthplace of Perry Como. It is also said to have the largest Independence Day parade in western Pennsylvania. Sestak and his supporters walked across an intersection and took their assigned place near the back of a procession amid firetrucks, dune buggies, a horse-drawn carriage, a bagpipe band and an S.U.V. ferrying Junior Miss Mid Mon Valley, an 8-year-old beauty queen sitting on top of the vehicle with her legs dangling through the sunroof. Sestak, a Navy admiral turned politician, surveyed the scene, then turned to me and said: ''I heard this parade was gigantic and wonderful. But look at this!'' 
Not yet five years removed from military service, Sestak has shown himself to be a quick study in his new field. Twice already he has been elected to Congress by voters in his suburban Philadelphia district. And in May, he defeated the wily survivor and political contortionist Arlen Specter -- while also overcoming the determined opposition of his own party -- to become the Democratic candidate for Senate in Pennsylvania. In November, he'll face the former congressman Pat Toomey, a former president of the Club for Growth, an economically libertarian, anti-tax organization, in what will be a closely watched battle of ideological opposites.
One of the best things Sestak has going for him is the bad thing that happened to him in the spring -- being dissed by just about every prominent Democrat in the land, from President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden on down. (Even Magic Johnson, for whatever reason, felt compelled to stand up for Arlen Specter.) The high-level opposition has allowed Sestak to cast himself as something other than his party's man, which may prove to be particularly useful this year. Democratic elders did not mean to strengthen Sestak -- they wanted to defeat him -- but their opposition earlier could end up preserving a Senate seat for the party.
Sestak's approach to campaigning falls somewhere between tireless and maniacal. When the Independence Day parade got started, he was determined to shake as many hands as possible, so he took off on a trot, reaching out his hand to those gathered along the sides of Canonsburg's main street. ''I'm Joe Sestak -- Happy Fourth,'' was about all he had to time to say. To those whose attire indicated they were veterans, he said, ''Thank you for your service.'' After he had jogged about 50 yards, he crossed to the other side of the street -- backtracking on a diagonal, and at a pace closer to a full sprint -- so he could shake the hands he missed.
Sestak, who is 58, kept up this zigzag pattern for two hours along a nearly two-mile route, some of it up a steep hill. He nearly ran over a toddler at one point, and another time I had to step out of his way to avoid a collision. Beads of sweat formed on his forehead. He had not bothered to apply sunscreen, so his face and neck browned, then reddened. When his left foot cramped and he started to limp, he commented that maybe the loafers he was wearing were not the best shoes for running.
A couple of young campaign aides traveling with Sestak walked the middle of the street behind a banner with his name on it, and he began to pester them about timing. We were due elsewhere later in the day -- about two and a half hours north, just outside Erie, for another parade. ''Are we going to make it?'' he asked. ''Yes, sir,'' the answer came back.
At the conclusion of the Canonsburg event, we walked about another quarter mile to our vehicles, which had been moved by his aides to a forward position near the end of the parade route. ''Tactics are for amateurs; logistics are for professionals,'' Sestak said, using one of the military phrases he likes to employ.
But I was unimpressed by the performance of our logistics unit, if we even had one. The Chevy Suburban was a rolling office -- packed with briefing papers and lists of calls for Sestak to make -- but there was no food or water on board. ''Is there a head nearby?'' Sestak asked before we climbed back in. There wasn't, so we just hightailed it to Erie, where he immediately fell into the back of the parade and resumed his aerobic handshaking routine. From there, we drove about two hours to the Big Butler Fair, where he was to introduce pulling competitions involving diesel trucks, farm tractors and tri-axle dump trucks.
At this point, we had been going for 10 hours without stopping for food or water. (We did finally get a bathroom break at a gas station.) It turned out that Sestak doesn't believe in eating during the day; he says it slows him down. He figured he was still operating on the entire medium pizza he had ''slammed down,'' as he put it, after midnight the previous night in his motel.
I had done no such thing, so as we walked through the county fair, I broke off momentarily and bought a plate of pirogi, or Polish dumplings, from a booth. They looked good, and I sort of had in mind that I might share them with Sestak, who is of Eastern European descent. And the pirogi did, in fact, get his attention. He looked at my platter and commented, ''Those are going to make you sleepy, you know.''
SESTAK IS THE kind of candidate that each of the major political parties would normally covet. He grew up in a big Catholic family in Philadelphia's blue-collar suburbs, the third of eight children and the first son. (He has six sisters.) His paternal grandfather emigrated from a village in Slovakia and found work in a steel mill. His father graduated from the Naval Academy and served in both the Atlantic and the Pacific in World War II. After her youngest went off to first grade, his mother taught high-school math.
Joe Sestak followed his father's path to Annapolis, then spent 31 years in the Navy, rising to three-star admiral while also picking up a Ph.D. in political economy and government from Harvard. He commanded an aircraft-carrier battle group in operations in the waters near Iraq and Afghanistan, and he served at the Pentagon and on the White House national security staff under President Clinton. He married late in life, at 46, to Susan Clark, a Russia expert he met when both were part of a visiting U.S. delegation to the former Soviet Union. In what would seem to be a rare instance of impetuosity, he proposed two days after they met. ''We were out on a boat, in Sochi, and it started to rain, and just as we were coming back in, that's when he asked me,'' she told me. ''I said, 'Nope, you don't know me well enough.' ''
Eight years later they were married. They have a 9-year-old daughter, Alexandra, who came down with brain cancer five years ago, and Sestak frequently cites her illness as inspiring him to seek elective office. He says that he was thankful for his daughter's medical care, which came through his military insurance coverage and has given her an excellent chance of living a normal life. ''We were rugged individualists in the Navy, but we all had health care,'' he told an audience back in the spring. ''Everybody in the military is a Democrat. They just don't know it.''
Sestak was first elected to Congress in the Democratic wave of 2006, winning 56 percent of the vote to defeat Curt Weldon, a 10-term Republican incumbent. (Sestak became the highest-ranking former military officer ever elected to Congress.) In Washington, he established a reputation as a serious legislator, especially on defense issues, although one without particularly close ties to his peers. It is rare to hear a politician say he hopes to improve the backslapping aspects of his craft, but that is what Sestak implied in one of our conversations. ''I want to be a public servant, not a politician,'' he said. ''It doesn't mean I don't want to work with other people. But I understand that at times I probably miss something, and I'll get better at that.'' (''There's an inside game here and an outside game,'' Jane Harman, a veteran congresswoman from California and a friend of Sestak's, told me. ''I would say he plays the outside game better.'')
Sestak is a notoriously hard-driving boss -- the sort of thing people in Washington care about, and may be telling on some level, but is rarely of interest to home-state voters. (A 2007 story in The Hill, which covers Congress, quoted an unnamed Capitol Hill veteran as saying that Sestak is ''a guy to avoid unless you are desperate for a job.'') His management style briefly became an issue in the spring when a Specter television spot charged that Sestak was removed from his Navy job, deputy chief of naval operations for warfare requirements and programs, for creating a ''poor command climate'' -- the same wording used in a Navy Times article that portrayed Sestak as someone who wore out subordinates with excessive demands. (Sestak was elevated to the post by a mentor, Adm. Vernon E. Clark, and reassigned by Clark's successor. Before the broadcasting of the Specter ad, Clark told The Philadelphia Inquirer that he had put Sestak ''in the cross hairs'' by asking for frank assessments and that he was dismissed after he ''challenged people who did not want to be challenged.'')
Bill Walsh, an Annapolis classmate and Navy buddy of Sestak's, told me that the ships Sestak commanded were known for being ''meticulously maintained.'' Walsh now runs Sestak's district office, in Media, Pa., which like all such offices is essentially a social-service agency dedicated to helping constituents navigate disputes with the Veterans Administration, health insurers, banks and other institutions. Sestak's office is notable for its long hours. It is open seven days a week -- 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. on weekdays, with somewhat shorter hours on weekends.
When I stopped by in mid-June, about 40 staff members, including interns, were working in a large room. ''People are hurting so much because of this economy,'' Walsh said. ''That's why we have to keep this office open. People say we work too hard? Wait a second. We've got young people at war. These kids in here are doing a great job, but the way I feel, and the way Joe feels, is they're not working as hard as the kids we've got in Afghanistan.''
Democratic leaders initially reached out to Sestak to oppose Specter, a five-term Republican senator. But in April 2009, Sestak was about to visit former President Bill Clinton at his house in Washington to strategize about that campaign. As he got out of the car outside the house and walked toward the door, he took a call on his cellphone: Specter was switching parties and becoming a Democrat. Specter narrowly defeated Pat Toomey in a 2004 Republican primary, but Toomey was challenging him again, and this time Specter did not think he could beat him. The switch was brokered by Joe Biden and by Ed Rendell, the governor of Pennsylvania, and it was immediately clear that Specter would have the weight of his new party behind him. As this was before Senator Edward Kennedy's death and the Republican Scott Brown's special-election victory to succeed him as senator from Massachusetts, Specter was the Democrats' presumed 60th vote for health care reform.
''You've got to reassess this now, Joe,'' Sestak recalls President Clinton telling him. But at the end of their talk, Sestak said, the former president pointed to his own gut and counseled, ''You've got to do whatever this tells you to do.''
''They enticed me in,'' Sestak told me. ''Then they said, 'Sit down.' '' But rather than making a gut decision, he did something more in character -- he set off on a tour of all of Pennsylvania's 67 counties, a three-week marathon to determine if he had something to offer and a reasonable chance of beating Specter. The nascent Tea Party movement at this same time was staging noisy protests and confronting elected officials of both parties. Its candidates posed threats mainly to Republican incumbents; Sestak was the rare Democratic dissident. In an upside-down political season, he became a nuisance to his party for a peculiar reason -- refusing to yield to a candidate who was last a Democrat in 1965.
The political class all but laughed off his bid, at least publicly. His brother, Rich, was running his campaign (and still is). Two sisters played key roles. His mother had a desk in the office. Sestak would make appearances anywhere, even if only two people showed up. Rendell, a former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, predicted that if Sestak ran, he would ''get killed'' and fade into obscurity. All the same, Sestak was viewed as enough of a threat that a high-level effort was made to get him out of the race. He revealed during the campaign that the Obama administration dangled an unspecified but prominent, unpaid advisory position to get him to step aside. (The intermediary used by Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, was again Bill Clinton.)
Sestak ultimately made the Democratic establishment look silly. He defeated Specter easily, winning 54 percent of the vote. His indefatigable campaigning paid off, as did some devastatingly effective late-in-the-campaign TV spots showing Specter embracing George W. Bush. On the issues, Sestak is an easy fit for what is left of the Democratic machine. Culturally, he remains an alien to the party.
CAMPAIGNS TURN ON issues and personalities, but most also involve some fairly straightforward electoral math. For generations, Democrats running in Pennsylvania have known they must come away from Philadelphia with a huge advantage of perhaps 300,000 votes or more, or they have no chance of overcoming dependable Republican majorities in the state's midsection. The size of the advantage is a matter of turnout, of how effectively voters can be pulled from their row houses in the city's river wards and from other key areas, including the vast black neighborhoods in North and West Philadelphia. Traditionally, this job has fallen to the Democratic machine -- ward leaders and their minions -- and has involved the liberal use of what in Philadelphia and other big cities is called WAM, or walking around money, meaning cash given to Election Day poll workers to turn out the vote.
One morning, I went to visit Lou Farinella, a top lieutenant on the Democratic City Committee under Representative Robert A. Brady, the chairman. Farinella, 71, was standing on the sidewalk outside the party's Center City headquarters, dressed in shorts and a polo shirt and smoking a cigarette. When we got inside and sat down, I asked him how Sestak could make sure he comes out of Philadelphia with enough votes. ''He's got to get close to Bob Brady,'' he answered. ''Real close. There's not a person running for statewide office that doesn't have to be extremely close to Bob Brady.''
Brady and Sestak represent side-by-side Congressional districts, and I wondered why they weren't already close. ''They are, but they need to get closer,'' Farinella explained. And what would happen then? ''Bob has a big stick that nobody can see,'' he said. ''And somehow he manages to wave it in such a way that everybody knows the direction to go in. When he does that, we roll out the big numbers to the polls.''
Farinella told me about Brady's coming beach party in Wildwood, N.J., an annual gathering that draws Philadelphia-area politicos, and he suggested I stop by. For Philadelphians, to be present at the Jersey Shore is a tribal rite, and therefore nothing else should ever take precedence. (Imagine, if you can, a Philly family with a misguided son who moves to Kandahar and joins the Taliban. At some point, one of the dimmer relatives in the family, probably a brother-in-law or cousin, would say, ''But he's still comin' down the Shore this summer, right?'')
I was going to be at the Jersey Shore with my family that week, and I said I would try to attend. I asked Farinella if Sestak would be there. ''Joe will be in Wildwood,'' he said. ''He'll be there, or he better find a real good excuse. He'll have his sleeves rolled up. He'll probably wear shorts.''
The day after I visited with Farinella, I talked with Rendell, who is nearing the end of his second term as governor after eight years as Philadelphia's mayor. He had no regrets about backing Specter. ''We helped persuade Arlen to switch parties,'' he said. ''We needed to stand by him.'' But when I related my conversation with Farinella, Rendell sort of chuckled and said the party, in essence, is over. Sestak's victory exposed the Democratic organization's weakness as an Election Day force. ''You can't really say there's a Philadelphia machine anymore, because if there was one, Arlen would still be standing,'' Rendell said. ''We backed him, and the turnout in Philadelphia was less than 17 percent.''
It is not as if Sestak is on his own. He has a campaign organization, which will be amply financed, although most likely not at the same level as Toomey's. And there is the structure left by Obama's 2008 campaign, a formidable force if energized. But the actual party apparatus cannot be counted on to deliver. ''I like Joe,'' Rendell said. '' I think he's right on virtually every issue. I've told him, I'll do as much or as little as you want me to do.''
Sestak did not go to Brady's event in Wildwood, which, though called a beach party, takes place inside a bar. I asked Sestak how he would relate to the Democratic machine in Philadelphia and elsewhere in the state. It's a perennial concern for candidates, especially outsiders, who must establish a relationship with the permanent party while also trying to determine what they can reasonably expect from it. Sestak said his staff was trying to identify ''centers of excellence'' within the party -- a term of art I had never heard used in relation to the slog of ward politics.
ON SOCIAL CONCERNS -- gay rights, stem-cell research, abortion -- Sestak is in line with the party's progressive wing. (The phrase ''L.G.B.T.'' -- lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender -- rolls off his tongue, which is not something you really expect from a 58-year-old career Navy man.) On foreign policy, Sestak was a critic of the Iraq war, and like many Democrats in Congress, he sometimes sounds impatient about Afghanistan. He argues for ''benchmarks on progress'' and warns that the U.S. should not get bogged down in an ''unsupported, open-ended commitment.'' For all his military experience, though, Sestak has not focused much on foreign and defense policy, probably because voters are almost single-mindedly concerned about jobs.
On economic issues, his problem with the party is that it has not gone far enough. He wishes that another $200 billion in tax credits and community-bank loan guarantees would have been added to the stimulus and used to help small businesses create jobs. ''We made a political decision we didn't want to look like we're spending too much,'' he told me. ''But I say no, not when the ship's been slammed. The modeling shows we should have had the courage of our convictions, and more Americans would be employed today. The economy was torpedoed. We needed to do a little more caulking than we did. If somebody wants to hit me for saying that, fine.''
We were talking at his headquarters in Media, where his daughter's colorful drawings were on the walls, sprucing up the otherwise typical campaign-office decor of spent takeout coffee cups and piles of paper. Sestak had just returned from campaigning over the July 4 weekend, after which he convened a staff meeting at 8 a.m. on Monday morning. (Get to work! There's a war going on.)
Toomey, in fact, has been hitting Sestak with a volley of television spots that paint him as a big spender in lockstep with Nancy Pelosi. The Sestak-Toomey clash will not break new ground in political rhetoric. ''That's really liberal,'' one of Toomey's TV ads intones after running through Sestak's record. For his part, Sestak rarely misses an opportunity to link Toomey with Wall Street, where he used to work, or with the ''failed economic policies of George W. Bush.''
By many measures, this ought to be a Republican year. So if Sestak were to prevail, it would not be a good sign for Republicans nationally -- or for their future prospects in a state with a markedly static population but an electorate that is rarely secure for either party. Just 4 percent of its residents come from outside the U.S., compared with 11 percent nationally. Its population grew 2.6 percent in the last decade, far below the U.S. growth rate of 9.1 percent.
Politically, Pennsylvania is a tossup in nearly every election season, and one with a conservative vein that runs even through elements of its Democratic electorate. It has two Democratic senators, but only because of Specter's switch. Its other senator is Bob Casey, one of the party's most prominent anti-abortion voices, who won the seat in 2006 from a Republican, Rick Santorum.
The state's demographics and voting patterns are what led Senator John McCain, in 2008, to drop more than $20 million in advertising and make repeated campaign visits. It did not pay off -- Obama emerged from Philadelphia with a 478,000-vote margin over McCain, and beat him in the city's suburbs as well, on his way to capturing 54.7 percent of the vote in Pennsylvania. But the president's approval ratings in the state are now hovering in the mid-40s. Obama still has some time to recover before facing voters, but other Democrats are widely expected to suffer this fall. Polls in the summer are not always great at predicting results, but for whatever it's worth, a Quinnipiac University poll in July measured the Sestak-Toomey contest as dead even.
While Sestak does not have major policy disagreements with his party, the rift from the spring may not yet be fully healed. Harman, the California congresswoman, said she believed he was still being ''shunned by some who I believe should embrace him.'' (She would not name them.) Rich Sestak, his brother's campaign manager, disagreed. ''We're so far beyond that,'' he told me.
Joe Sestak, though, continues to talk like a man with one foot outside the tent. I suggested to him that there had been an element of conquest in the wooing of Specter -- Biden, Rendell and others had been at him for years -- and that finally winning him over was just too alluring to pass up. ''That's right,'' he said. ''They got seduced by it. I've seen the same thing in the military. You can get so focused on a strategy and making it work that you lose sight of your larger mission. I would argue my party began getting off the track when it made a political calculation for that 60th vote on health reform. And it continued down both sides of Pennsylvania Avenue with all the deal making, where you had these senators who said, 'O.K., I'm going to take this back to my state, and this to mine.' ''
It is, of course, necessary to make deals and forge compromises to pass legislation, especially on close votes that allow individual lawmakers to make demands. Sestak is still a pretty junior legislator. Some of what he says can come across as naive, but he is certainly not wrong in thinking that party leaders could have communicated better on how the initiatives of the last two years -- health care, the stimulus, financial industry reform -- were specifically going to help people. They passed big things that seemed to produce not jubilation but something like buyer's remorse.
Sestak is fond of what he calls ''metrics.'' His campaign measures everything, even the number of brochures its volunteers distribute. The long hours his district office is open produce a different set of metrics. ''I've got more than 1,000 constituents who are losing, or who are in danger of losing, their homes who have walked into that office over the last four years,'' he said. ''But the first year, there were only 49. You have to think about the people behind those numbers. My party just didn't get it. The leadership didn't get it. These people out there were being slammed, and we were doing things to help them, but the people didn't feel it. I understand the art of the deal, I really do. But we lost people because it looked to them like the whole point of it all was the deal itself.''
The House recently passed legislation that would prevent special-interest groups and corporations from anonymously sponsoring political advertising, intended as a corrective to a Supreme Court ruling that loosened the rules of campaign giving. But Democrats in the House fashioned an exception for the National Rifle Association and a handful of other groups.
Sestak volunteered this episode as an example of what he detests in Washington, although he did ultimately vote for the bill. (His anger, it should be made clear, was not directed at the N.R.A. but at his own party leadership.) ''That deal making for the N.R.A., and the carving out of that, was the worst of sausage making,'' he said. ''Oh, my gosh, in the end you're forced to vote for something so bad, I told them I wouldn't vote for it. And they went back and made it a little more amenable, but it was outrageous what they did.''
SESTAK IS FAR from a natural orator. When emphasizing a point, he has a habit of elongating syllables, words and whole sentences, which can make him sound like an old vinyl record running too slow on the turntable. He sprinkles his remarks with reams of statistics. Some people assume he's humorless, but I did not find that to be the case. As we were sitting in an outdoor arena watching the truck pulls at the county fair, with gears grinding and engines roaring, he leaned over to me and said, ''I guess this isn't where I should tell people about the hybrid I drive at home.''
Several times, Sestak mentioned to me the average age of the 5,000 or so sailors on the aircraft carrier he commanded: 191/2. He felt responsible for their security and development. I got the sense that politics serves a need of his to feel that he has an impact on the well-being of large groups of people. Perhaps because of his military background, the way he connects to voters is partly through his physicality -- his running of the parades, the grueling hours and self-induced deprivation of campaigning.
''You remember that trip we took?'' he said to an aide, Chip Ridewood, in early July. He was harking back to the voyage he undertook to decide whether to challenge Specter. Ridewood sort of winced, indicating his memories might not be quite as pleasant. ''It was great, a great tour,'' Sestak said. ''Sixty-seven counties, three weeks. We just about lived in that car, didn't we, Chip?''
Over the next two and a half months, Sestak may have to sometimes fly around the state, rather than driving, as he does now, sometimes through the night -- though his campaign says he has no plans to change his mode of travel. Tens of millions of dollars will be spent on advertising for the Senate contest in Pennsylvania. Sestak won't be able to will himself to victory through sweat and effort, but he seems to see value in demonstrating that if he could, he would. At the Canonsburg parade, as Sestak was running uphill, a man on the side of the road shouted: ''Slow down, Joe! You're not even halfway there!'' Sestak turned in his direction and made eye contact, seemed to slow for a moment and then took off at a faster pace.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misidentified the man shown with Mr. Sestak and misstated the date of the photograph. Mr. Sestak is shown in 1997, not 1995, with his father, Joseph A. Sestak. He is not shown with the person for whom he served as director of defense policy. (That was President Bill Clinton.)
An earlier version of this correction referred incorrectly to Mr. Sestak as ''Senator'' Sestak. He is, of course, a candidate for the Senate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GILLIAN LAUB) (MM23)
TOP: Sestak with a former boss, whom he served as director of defense policy, in 1995. BOTTOM: With his father, a retired Navy captain, in 1997. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE SESTAK CAMPAIGN) (MM25)
 Keeping the home district burning: A Women for Sestak rally in Media, Pa., in July. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GILLIAN LAUB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); POLITICS (74%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (70%)

PERSON: JOE SESTAK (92%); JOE BIDEN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); PAT TOOMEY (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



542 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Helping Hand?

BYLINE: By JUDITH WARNER. 
Judith Warner is the author, most recently, of ''We've Got Issues: Children and Parents in the Age of Medication.''

 BODY:
With the battle over whether to extend the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy shaping up as the major political event of the fall, opponents of repeal were handed a bounteous gift this summer when Bill Gates, Warren Buffett and 38 others announced that they formed a pact to give at least half their wealth to charity. After all, what better illustration could there be of the great social good that wealthy people can do when the government lets them keep their hard-earned dollars to spend as they please? 
The problem is that the exceptional philanthropy of the superwealthy few doesn't apply to the many more people defined as rich in the current debate over the Bush tax cuts -- individuals earning over $200,000 and couples with revenues over $250,000. For decades, surveys have shown that upper-income Americans don't give away as much of their money as they might and are particularly undistinguished as givers when compared with the poor, who are strikingly generous. A number of other studies have shown that lower-income Americans give proportionally more of their incomes to charity than do upper-income Americans. In 2001, Independent Sector, a nonprofit organization focused on charitable giving, found that households earning less than $25,000 a year gave away an average of 4.2 percent of their incomes; those with earnings of more than $75,000 gave away 2.7 percent.
This situation is perplexing if you think of it in terms of dollars and cents: the poor, you would assume, don't have resources to spare, and the personal sacrifice of giving is disproportionately large. The rich do have money to spend. Those who itemize receive a hefty tax break to make charitable donations, a deduction that grows more valuable the higher they are on the income scale. And the well-off are presumed to have at least a certain sense of noblesse oblige. Americans pride themselves on their philanthropic tradition, and on the role of private charity, which is much more developed here than it is in Europe, where the expectation is that the government will care for the poor.
But in the larger context of ''the psychological culture of wealth versus poverty,'' says Paul K. Piff, a Ph.D. candidate in social psychology at the University of California, Berkeley, the paradox makes sense. Piff has made a specialty of studying those cultures in his lab at the Institute of Personality and Social Research, most recently in a series of experiments that tested ''lower class'' and ''upper class'' subjects (with earnings ranging from around $15,000 to more than $150,000 a year) to see what kind of psychological factors motivated the well-known differences in their giving behaviors. His study, written with Michael W. Kraus and published online last month by The Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, found that lower-income people were more generous, charitable, trusting and helpful to others than were those with more wealth. They were more attuned to the needs of others and more committed generally to the values of egalitarianism.
''Upper class'' people, on the other hand, clung to values that ''prioritized their own need.'' And, he told me this week, ''wealth seems to buffer people from attending to the needs of others.'' Empathy and compassion appeared to be the key ingredients in the greater generosity of those with lower incomes. And these two traits proved to be in increasingly short supply as people moved up the income spectrum.
This compassion deficit -- the inability to empathetically relate to others' needs -- is perhaps not so surprising in a society that for decades has seen the experiential gap between the well-off and the poor (and even the middle class) significantly widen. The economist Frank Levy diagnosed such a split in his book ''The New Dollars and Dreams: American Incomes and Economic Change,'' published in the midst of the late-1990s tech boom. ''The welfare state,'' Levy wrote, ''rests on enlightened self-interest in which people can look at beneficiaries and reasonably say, 'There but for the grace of God. . . .' As income differences widen, this statement rings less true.'' A lack of identification with those in need may explain in part why a 2007 report from the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University found that only a small percentage of charitable giving by the wealthy was actually going to the needs of the poor; instead it was mostly directed to other causes -- cultural institutions, for example, or their alma maters -- which often came with the not-inconsequential payoff of enhancing the donor's status among his or her peers.
Given all this, it's tempting to believe that there's something intrinsic to the rich or the poor that explains their greater or lesser generosity and empathetic connection to others (i.e., rich people get rich because they like money more and are less distracted from their goals by the relational side of life), but Piff's research points in a different direction. Piff found that if higher-income people were instructed to imagine themselves as lower class, they became more charitable. If they were primed by, say, watching a sympathy-eliciting video, they became more helpful to others -- so much so, in fact, that the difference between their behavior and that of the low-income subjects disappeared. And fascinatingly, the inverse was true as well: when lower-income people were led to think of themselves as upper class, they actually became less altruistic.
''These patterns can be changed,'' Piff says. What this means is that whatever morality tale can be spun by the giving patterns for rich people and poor people, it shouldn't turn on the presumed nobility of the needy or essential cupidity of the fortunate. Instead, we should look at what has pushed rich and poor (or, more accurately, the rich and everyone else) to such opposite extremes of existence. A generation of political decisions -- regarding big business and labor, the deregulation of the financial industry and, yes, tax cuts for the wealthy -- have brought our society to this sharply divided, socially and economically polarized place we now find ourselves, says the political scientist Jacob Hacker, co-author, with Paul Pierson, of the coming book ''Winner-Take-All Politics: How Washington Made the Rich Richer -- and Turned Its Back on the Middle Class.'' And, just as with the behavior of Piff's subjects in the lab, political decisions can be changed. ''Runaway inequality,'' he says, has led to ''a pulling away of the very wealthy from the rest of American society. Do we believe the rich should be trusted to tithe, or should we have a society with a basic taxing-and-spending structure that ensures a modicum of economic security for all people?''
In a more equitable society, the very well off might indeed have less cash to give. But if a rising tide lifts all boats, that may not matter so much.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK PETERSON) GRAPHIC: $227.41 billion is the estimated amount GIVEN by individuals to CHARITABLE organizations in 2009. (GRAPHIC BY REDUX PICTURES. SOURCE (TOP LEFT) : THE CENTER ON PHILANTHROPY AT INDIANA UNIVERSITY, 2007.)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY NOMOCO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CHARITIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (87%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); CHARITABLE GIVING (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (59%); INDEPENDENT SECTOR (55%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (72%); WARREN BUFFETT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



543 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2178 words

HEADLINE: A Champion Against Cancer, Now Under Siege

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER and JULIET MACUR. 
Bruce Weber reported from Austin, Tex., and Juliet Macur from Washington.

 BODY:
AUSTIN, Tex. -- Barry Bonds. Marion Jones. Alex Rodriguez. Roger Clemens. There is no shortage of athletes who have fallen from grace, their achievements on the playing field and their public stature compromised by accusations of cheating or revelations of criminal or otherwise repugnant behavior.
The case of Lance Armstrong is far more complex. Having survived testicular cancer that metastasized to his lungs and his brain, Mr. Armstrong -- who went on to win a record seven Tour de France titles -- has become a powerful symbol of the possibilities of life after the disease. He has also become a world-class philanthropist, his Livestrong foundation doling out $31 million last year on behalf of cancer patients.
But now that he and his former team are subjects of a federal investigation into doping activities, those in the interdependent circles of his world are concerned that the inquiry will tarnish or erode all he has built.
''There are just so many unknowns at this point,'' Doug Ulman, the chief executive of Livestrong and a cancer survivor, said in an interview at the foundation's airy new headquarters here. ''That's the most frustrating thing.'' 
To Dr. John R. Seffrin, the chief executive of the American Cancer Society, the investigation should be irrelevant. Whatever Mr. Armstrong's transgressions as an athlete, he said, they pale in comparison with the good he has done.
''Lance Armstrong has done more to destigmatize cancer than anyone,'' Dr. Seffrin said.
Few would dispute that Mr. Armstrong is a splendid athlete, gifted and dedicated, or that he is a magnificent publicist for his cause. Since 2004, when Livestrong and its corporate partner Nike gave the world the yellow bracelet to signify that the wearer had been touched by cancer, more than 70 million have been distributed.
But his competitive side is also compelling. A power-wielding, polarizing figure in cycling, Mr. Armstrong, who turns 39 next month, has a reputation for being a brutal competitor and an aggressive self-promoter. A day after spending three weeks as his teammate at the 2009 Tour, the winner, Alberto Contador, who has supplanted Mr. Armstrong as the world's best rider, said in Spanish: ''He is a great rider and did a great Tour. Another thing is on a personal level, where I have never admired him and never will.''
Mr. Armstrong has long fended off suspicions that his Tour titles were tainted by performance-enhancers, and he has never officially tested positive for any illegal substances. (At the 1999 Tour, he failed a test for a corticosteroid but produced a doctor's note for it.)
Through one of his lawyers, Mr. Armstrong declined to be interviewed for this article.
During the Tour de France in July, he issued perhaps his most forceful statement on the issue: ''As long as I live, I will deny it. There was absolutely no way I forced people, encouraged people, told people, helped people, facilitated. Absolutely not. One hundred percent.''
But Mr. Armstrong's vehement claims of innocence amid the acknowledged widespread cheating in professional cycling strike many as far-fetched.
In cycling, he is also known as a control freak, an intense micromanager of his image and of the complicated apparatus that is a professional cycling team.
''He's the most binary guy I've ever met,'' said Bill Strickland, a cyclist and writer who has known Mr. Armstrong since 1994 and whose recent book ''Tour de Lance'' followed Mr. Armstrong as he prepared for the 2009 Tour after a three-year hiatus from the event. ''He told me his motto is Win/lose, live/die. He equates winning with living and losing with dying. Every moment you're around him, he wants to win. You can be in a conversation with him and he'll try to get the upper hand. It never lets down.''
Cycling teams are built to focus on and nurture one star whom the other riders, known by the French word domestiques, support by blocking the wind, for instance, and ferrying water. And in his book, Mr. Strickland described a telling incident from the 2003 Tour.
Early in the race, Victor Hugo Pena, a domestique for Mr. Armstrong's United States Postal Service team, briefly moved ahead of Mr. Armstrong in the standings and wore the yellow jersey signifying the overall leader. But Mr. Armstrong insisted that Mr. Pena continue to perform the chores of a domestique, a flagrant usurpation of Tour tradition, an embarrassment to Mr. Pena and a purposeful reminder of cycling's social order.
''That was so typical of who he is,'' Mr. Strickland said. ''To those of us who saw that, it was criminal. And so perfectly Lance.''
At races, Mr. Armstrong is a titillating presence, always at the center of a throng. Fans, some living with cancer, gather several deep around his team bus, hoping to glimpse or touch him. ''It's like being at Lourdes,'' Mr. Strickland said.
Some of what makes Mr. Armstrong's character difficult to parse is the blinding sheen of his celebrity. Between his divorce from Kristin Richard, with whom he had three children, and his relationship with Anna Hansen, who is expecting their second child, his string of girlfriends included the singer Sheryl Crow, the actress Kate Hudson and the fashion designer Tory Burch.
''I just don't see the whole 'complicated' thing,'' said Ms. Burch, who has remained close to Mr. Armstrong. ''He loves life. He's a happy guy. He's a great father; I've seen that firsthand. And I'm amazed by what he's done for people with cancer -- people I know and people I don't.''
With 2.6 million followers on Twitter, Mr. Armstrong cultivates his fame, sharing personal activity reports, occasional shout-outs to cancer patients -- ''Pulling for Christopher Hitchens!'' -- and promos for Livestrong. A couple of weeks ago, Mr. Armstrong posted on Twitter that he would be leading a ride through the streets of Denver to promote a Colorado stage race in 2011. Two thousand riders showed up.
Some of this is certainly vanity -- he sent a Twitter message about spending five hours with Bono talking about ''Africa & Cancer & where the 2 meet'' -- but to be cynical about his cancer work would be unfair.
As chairman of Livestrong, he may no longer be involved in its day-to-day operation, but Mr. Ulman, its president, says that they speak each morning and that the organization relies on him not just as a spokesman, but also for relationship building and policy guidance.
Mr. Armstrong also served two three-year terms on the President's Cancer Panel, which is charged with assessing the National Cancer Program. One of Livestrong's newest ventures, a ''navigation center'' to help patients in Austin negotiate the health care system, is an idea Mr. Armstrong borrowed from the panel's former chairman Dr. Harold P. Freeman, who founded the first such center, in Harlem.
''He came to see me at our center, which takes care of poor black and Hispanic people, many of whom have no health insurance,'' Dr. Freeman said. ''He showed a genuine interest in what I was trying to do and came back four different times. I see him as a compassionate person who cares about people who don't have resources.''
Accusations Old and New
Not surprisingly, perhaps, Mr. Armstrong's detractors in the cycling world are both legion and fearful, and the contentions of the few who have publicly spoken ill of him are well known. His critics include Floyd Landis, a former Postal Service teammate whose 2006 Tour title was annulled because he failed a drug test. Another former teammate, Frankie Andreu, said in a deposition for a civil lawsuit in 2005 that he and his wife visited Mr. Armstrong in the hospital during his cancer recovery in 1996 and heard Mr. Armstrong tell a doctor that he had used several performance-boosting drugs, including the endurance enhancer EPO. And Greg LeMond, who in 1986 became the first American to win the Tour de France, continues to assert that Mr. Armstrong cheated, although he acknowledges that he never saw Mr. Armstrong dope.
Mr. Andreu's and Mr. LeMond's accusations and the circumstantial case against Mr. Armstrong that the journalists David Walsh and Pierre Ballester laid out in their 2004 book, ''L.A. Confidentiel,'' are old enough to be stale.
But in May, Mr. Landis, reversing his years of denials, said publicly that he and Mr. Armstrong were active participants in systematic drug use and blood doping on the Postal Service team, which competed from 1999 to 2004. (According to a 2001 article in Texas Monthly, the Postal Service, a taxpayer-supported agency, paid Mr. Armstrong $8 million annually.)
Another former Postal Service rider confirmed to The New York Times recently that he used drugs himself and corroborated Mr. Landis's statements that cheating was rampant on the team and that Mr. Armstrong encouraged it. The rider spoke on condition of anonymity because federal investigators told him not to speak publicly about the case.
Charges being considered in the investigation of the Postal Service team include fraud, drug distribution, tax evasion, money laundering and breaches of employment law, according to two people close to the investigation, who spoke on the condition they not be identified.
The lead investigator in the case, Jeff Novitzky, now a special agent for the Food and Drug Administration, is a formidable foe. Mr. Novitzky's previous inquiry into drug use by athletes connected to the Bay Area Laboratory Co-operative ensnared Mr. Bonds, who is facing trial next year on perjury charges relating to his 2003 grand jury testimony, and Ms. Jones, the Olympic sprint gold medalist, who went to prison partly for lying to investigators about her doping regimen. Novitzky also uncovered the first evidence against Mr. Clemens, who was indicted Thursday on charges that he lied before Congress about his use of performance-enhancing drugs.
None of Mr. Novitzky's other targets, however, had Mr. Armstrong's saintly aura among fans.
''His foundation has done so much for the public good, and there is no question that once the investigation turns into a prosecution, it's going to tarnish the brand,'' said William Moran, a New York lawyer who specializes in crisis management, adding that prosecutors should not risk moving forward unless they can win. ''They need to have a slam-dunk here, because this is about more than Lance Armstrong.''
Thriving Foundation
Founded in 1997, two years before Mr. Armstrong's first Tour title, Livestrong has defied the recession. According to the foundation's 2009 annual report, revenue and earnings surpassed $50 million, by far its best year, coincident with Mr. Armstrong's return to the Tour, where he finished a surprisingly strong third. (In this year's Tour, which he said would be his last, he finished 23rd.)
Even after Mr. Landis's accusations in May, Livestrong officials said, the foundation suffered no downturn in donations or in attracting volunteers. Business is proceeding as usual, Mr. Ulman, Livestrong's president, said.
''We're not naive enough to think this couldn't have an impact,'' he said. ''We just don't know enough about what's going to happen.''
Mr. Armstrong recently withdrew from the Leadville 100, a mountain bike race he won last year, saying he wanted to spend time with his children and was still smarting from a hip injury. This weekend he is in Philadelphia visiting cancer patients, courting top fund-raisers and, with about 5,000 others, riding in Sunday's Livestrong Challenge, one of the foundation's signature participatory events.
''I'd be devastated if, because of his situation, the foundation was hurt,'' said Fayruz Benyousef, a consultant to nonprofit organizations, including Livestrong, whose father died of leukemia and whose own Hodgkin's disease was diagnosed in 1988. ''That would be a real sad day for everybody.''
So what are people to make of Lance Armstrong?
Jay Coakley, a sociologist and the author of ''Sports in Society: Issues and Controversies,'' said that he had no doubt that Mr. Armstrong was guilty of doping, but that it did not matter. For athletes, he said, the line between performance enhancement and medical treatment has become so fuzzy that it is impossible to discern.
''Deciding to use performance-enhancing substances and methods has nothing to do with lack of morality,'' Mr. Coakley said. ''It has to do with normative structure of elite sport, and the athlete's commitment to his identity as an athlete.''
Not everyone in sports shares his view. But if Mr. Armstrong is found to have doped, then he will also be exposed as a liar. Playing out that hypothetical situation, Mr. Coakley said: ''If he had told the truth, he'd be gone. How much money would he have raised for cancer?''
Whether charges will ever be brought against Mr. Armstrong or others associated with the Postal Service team is unknown, but the fallout from a long investigation could have implications well beyond cycling.
''Lance is an icon of hope and inspiration to millions and millions of people,'' said Mark McKinnon, a business strategist and political media consultant who is also on Livestrong's board. ''So there's a lot at stake.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lance Armstrong in July. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN LANGSDON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A1)
Buttons bearing employees' faces at Livestrong's headquarters in Texas.
 Lance Armstrong in the yellow jersey after the ninth stage of the 1999 Tour de France. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PASCAL PAVANI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); STEROIDS (78%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); CHARITIES (74%); FOUNDATIONS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CYCLING (72%); ATHLETES (71%); TESTICULAR CANCER (71%); MEN'S HEALTH (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (55%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (93%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



544 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5401 words

HEADLINE: In Case Of Emergency: What Not To Do

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
WHOEVER suggested that all publicity is good publicity clearly never envisioned the wave of catastrophe engulfing high-profile corporations over the last year, laying waste to some of the most meticulously tailored reputations on earth.
Toyota, celebrated for engineering cars so utterly reliable that they seemed boring, endured revelations that its most popular models sometimes accelerated for mysterious reasons. The energy giant BP, which once packaged itself as an environmental visionary, now confronts the future with a new identity: progenitor of the worst oil spill in American history. And the Wall Street icon Goldman Sachs, an elite player in the white-collar-and-suspenders set, found itself derided in Rolling Stone as ''a great vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity, relentlessly jamming its blood funnel into anything that smells like money.'' Last month, Goldman agreed to pay $550 million to settle federal securities fraud charges.
''These were real reputational implosions,'' says Howard Rubenstein, the public relations luminary who represents the New York Yankees and the News Corporation. ''In all three cases, the companies found themselves under attack over the very traits that were central to their strong global brands and corporate identities.'' 
Image implosions, of course, haven't been confined to the business world. The basketball wizard LeBron James found himself scorned as a narcissist after his nationally televised abandonment of Cleveland. Taped conversations of the Hollywood star Mel Gibson with his former girlfriend have secured him seemingly permanent billing as The Worst Guy Ever.
But for members of the protective tribe known as the crisis management industry, the scandals capturing headlines in the corporate realm involve far higher stakes, threatening the lifeblood of global behemoths worth hundreds of billions of dollars. The calamities have served up a lifetime supply of case studies to be mined for lessons on best practices, as well as pitfalls to avoid when disaster arrives.
As conventional wisdom has it, the three companies at the center of these fiascos worsened their problems by failing to heed established protocol: When the story is bad, disclose it immediately -- awful parts included -- lest you be forced to backtrack and slide into the death spiral of lost credibility.
Exhibit A in the lesson book on forthright crisis management is the mass recall of Tylenol in 1982, after the deaths of seven people who ingested tainted painkillers. Johnson & Johnson promptly acknowledged that some of its product had been poisoned and pulled bottles off store shelves.
In the view of many who are paid to extract corporations from terrible situations, Toyota, BP and Goldman exacerbated their woes by either declining to fess up promptly, casting blame elsewhere or striking adversarial postures with the public, the government and the news media.
''Companies that typically handle crises well, you never hear about them,'' says James Donnelly, senior vice president for crisis management at the public relations colossus Ketchum, who -- like many practitioners contacted for this article -- required elaborate promises that he would not be portrayed as speaking about any particular company. ''There's not a lot of news when the company takes responsibility and moves on. The good crisis-management examples rarely end waving the flag of victory. They end with a whisper, and it's over in a day or two.''
Alas, recent months have featured little whispering and a good deal of high-decibel theatrics: sirens headed to another Toyota accident; recriminations over how birds in the Gulf of Mexico became covered in black goo; debate over the propriety of Goldman selling investments engineered to fail. The basic facts were so unpalatable that they subdued the cleansing power of the American industrial additive known as spin.
Which raises a question: Are some crises so dire that public relations victory is simply not on the menu? And, if so, what's an embattled company to do?
Eric Dezenhall, a communications strategist in Washington who worked in the White House for President Ronald Reagan, argues that the standard playbook is useless when the facts are sufficiently distasteful. (He would know. He once represented Michael Jackson after allegations of child molestation.)
Mr. Dezenhall is particularly scornful of the classic imperative to ''get out in front of the story,'' as if swift disclosure provides inoculation against all ugly realities. When the facts are horrible, he argues, the best P.R. fix may simply be to absorb the pounding and get back to business, while eschewing the sort of foolish communications gimmicks that can make things worse.
Consider Tiger Woods. His now-infamous fondness for women other than his wife enthralled the nation, all the while torturing corporate sponsors who paid gargantuan sums to associate their brands with his winning image.
''What was Woods supposed to do?'' Mr. Dezenhall asks in an essay in the publication Ethical Corporation. ''Call an immediate press conference and rattle through a list of lady friends declaring, 'Tiffany, yes; Trixy, no, Amber, don't remember ...'? And if Woods had pre-empted with a confession, would this have caused the news media, bloggers, pundits, Hooters waitresses and everyone else to collectively reward him with their silence? Not a chance.''
Much the same can be said for BP, Toyota and Goldman, he suggests, with attempts to win public affection almost certain to be viewed as insincere so long as real problems persisted -- oil spilling into the ocean, cars crashing, Wall Street profiting while ordinary people suffered.
''The two things that are very hard to survive are hypocrisy and ridicule,'' Mr. Dezenhall says. ''It's the height of arrogance to assume that in the middle of a crisis the public yearns for chestnuts of wisdom from people they want to kill. The goal is not to get people not to hate them. It's to get people to hate them less.''
A Disaster, Made Worse
Putting aside the limitations of crisis management, those in the trade generally share a sense that the companies at the center of recent events committed grievous errors. At the top of the list is BP.
''It was one of the worst P.R. approaches that I've seen in my 56 years of business,'' says Mr. Rubenstein. ''They tried to be opaque. They had every excuse in the book. Right away they should have accepted responsibility and recognized what a disaster they faced. They basically thought they could spin their way out of catastrophe. It doesn't work that way.''
Not so, protests the energy company. ''From the beginning of the crisis, BP stepped forward and accepted responsibility,'' says Andrew Gowers, who oversees BP's communications. ''We mounted a massive maritime response. It was the largest response there's ever been.''
For BP, any spill threatened to undermine its image as a new breed of energy company, one sensitive to the environment. In an advertising campaign started in 2000, BP reinterpreted its initials to stand for Beyond Petroleum, featuring solar panels and wind turbines.
''BP made a decision years ago to hold themselves up as a paragon in a pretty controversial industry,'' says Eddie Reeves, a former vice president for media relations at Merrill Lynch. ''I remember hearing somebody talking about how Beyond Petroleum was going to be the poster child for this new environmental mind-set, and somebody else saying, 'Yeah, that'll work until they have their own plant explosion.' ''
BP was no stranger to accidents. An explosion at a refinery in Texas in 2005 killed 15 workers, prompting a federal fine of $50.6 million. The next year, an oil pipeline leak in Alaska brought BP $20 million in penalties. But those events became footnotes after the lethal explosion at an offshore oil rig in the gulf in April.
The company issued early estimates suggesting that little oil was reaching the water, perhaps 1,000 barrels a day. Outside scientists challenged that figure and pressured the federal government to expand the estimate to five times as much. So it went for weeks, the numbers swelling and each revision calling into question the veracity of anything BP might say.
In the end, consensus estimates assume that nearly 60,000 barrels a day were spilling into the water, with the total volume close to five million barrels.
''BP lost a lot of credibility when it turned out they weren't being forthright about how much oil was spilling out,'' says Lucio Guerrero, who, as former spokesman for Rod R. Blagojevich, the impeached governor of Illinois, has intimate knowledge of the art of trust management. ''Once you lose credibility, that's the kiss of death.''
BP counters that it offered the best real-time numbers it could, while always stressing that estimates were subject to change.
''There was enormous pressure to mention a number,'' says Mr. Gowers. ''We did not underestimate the scope of the spill.''
On the highlight reel of BP's missteps, strategists cite its effort to deflect blame for the spill by pinning responsibility on contractors. That made BP appear callous, as if it were focused on avoiding legal liability rather than doing right by those whose lives had been upended -- the families of the 11 rig workers who died in the explosion, and communities that draw their livelihoods from the gulf. (BP declined to comment on such assertions.)
The company had to contend with a classic corporate quandary of balancing advice from counselors with starkly different considerations, according to people familiar with BP's deliberations who requested anonymity because the advice was confidential.
In times of crisis, communications professionals and lawyers often pursue conflicting agendas. Communications strategists are inclined to mollify public anger with expressions of concern, while lawyers warn that contrition can be construed as admissions of guilt in potentially expensive lawsuits.
For BP, this tension burst into view in May, when executives went to Capitol Hill with officials from two of its contractors: Transocean, which owned the offshore rig that exploded, and Halliburton, which aided BP in drilling. Executives from the three companies each disowned culpability while pointing fingers at one another.
''What that screamed is the lawyers are in control,'' says Mr. Reeves. ''All it did was get everybody all the more peeved at them.''
Many analysts say BP erred in putting its message in the hands of its C.E.O., Tony Hayward. Inclined toward pinstriped suits, Mr. Hayward found himself in coastal communities in the American South, where shrimpers donned stained coveralls in pursuit of a catch now polluted by his company's gushing inventory. His words of regret were delivered with a British accent, and he complicated his task with a series of tin-eared utterances.
''The Gulf of Mexico is a very big ocean,'' Mr. Hayward told The Guardian amid debate over the extent of the spill. ''The amount of volume of oil and dispersant we are putting into it is tiny in relation to the total water volume.''
Four days later, he told a TV reporter that ''the environmental impact of this disaster is likely to have been very, very modest.''
When he apologized to those harmed by the spill -- telling a television interviewer, ''We're sorry for the massive disruption it's caused to their lives'' -- he tacked on two sentences that would overshadow all else. ''There's no one who wants this thing over more than I do,'' he said. ''I'd like my life back.''
With this, Mr. Hayward opened the gates to Sound-Bite Hell. Gangs of reporters deployed to the spill now had a cartoonish narrative to lean on, instead of the discomfiting melange of scientific conjecture that had been their story before: Here was the evil corporation, headed by an unfeeling rich guy with a fancy accent (no matter that Mr. Hayward wasn't born to wealth and attended none of Britain's patrician schools).
Pundits gleefully pointed out that the life he yearned to reclaim featured millions of dollars in compensation, a point reinforced when he took leave of the disaster to spend time with the family -- at a yacht race.
Eventually, BP minimized Mr. Hayward's presence, unleashing ads featuring BP employees from gulf communities who were working diligently to clean up the mess -- a decision that draws praise from crisis managers as a better way to convey concern.
''The ads they have up with the New Orleans-area natives who work for BP are much better,'' says Mr. Reeves, the former Merrill Lynch executive.
Later, Mr. Hayward handed the reins of BP to Robert Dudley, who brought street cred as a competent operator along with a useful pedigree as a Mississippi native with an accent to prove it.
Mr. Hayward's travails illustrate another perilous lesson from the crisis-management handbook: Although strategists constantly hector executives to stick to the script, ad-libbed gaffes are common. Some of this is rooted in the culture of C.E.O.-dom. Bosses are accustomed to being obeyed as authorities, making them confident in their abilities to charm and persuade -- a trait that can cause trouble when the audience is no longer a room full of underlings but a panel of Congressional interrogators or a pack of reporters wielding recording devices.
Yet, in the end, there may have been little that BP could have said to ameliorate public anger while the oil continued to spew, flooding the national consciousness -- particularly given the modern realities of 24-hour cable news. More than any other company in crisis, BP had to contend with the power of a stark and ubiquitous image: oil gushing into water. As it tried and failed to plug the leak with various Rube Goldberg contraptions, any communications strategy was prone to backfiring.
''BP could apologize every day,'' says Keith Michael Hearit, a communications professor at Western Michigan University. ''They could have a situation where the C.E.O. goes on an environmental pilgrimage and falls on his knees going up a mountain, and it wouldn't do them any good. Until the oil stopped, there was nothing that could be done to make it better, but there was plenty that could be said to make it worse.''
Squandered Good Will
Toyota had a stronger hand to play, strategists say. Rare is the consumer with affection for an oil company, but Toyota enjoyed immense good will. It was the world's largest automaker, with reasonably priced cars that delivered excellent gas mileage and performance. It had cultural stereotypes working in its favor -- the image of the disciplined Japanese corporation with uncompromising quality standards.
All of this suggested that Toyota might have won the public's understanding had it been seen as forthright.
''When you're in the mix of these really obtuse situations where nobody really knows the facts, in some sense the facts are less important than your posture toward the facts,'' says Mr. Reeves, the former Merrill Lynch media relations executive. ''People are reasonable. They know companies make mistakes, and people will forgive an honest mistake. They will not forgive a dishonest cover-up.''
Strategists express amazement that a company with Toyota's reputational advantages repeatedly dismissed reports of problems, communicated mainly through press releases -- which underscored a fortresslike position -- and then begrudgingly confirmed bits of evidence, ensuring that the story would play out in damaging increments.
''Toyota blew it,'' says Brad Burns, who ran communications at WorldCom, the telecommunications giant leveled by a 2001 accounting scandal. ''It's been the proverbial death by a thousand cuts. They knew they had problems long ago, whether it was a mechanical issue or operator error, but they knew they had an issue they had to deal with.
''And rather than put public safety over profits, they appear to have listened to the product liability lawyers and they totally lost it. It's brand damage.''
Mr. Burns says his experience at WorldCom -- which reckoned with the scandal before selling itself to Verizon in 2005 -- laid bare the benefits of transparency.
''The quicker you apologize and make it right, the faster it goes away,'' he says. ''The longer you stonewall, the worse it gets.'' (''Oh, by the way,'' he adds, ''it didn't help when your former management team is walking around in handcuffs.'')
Toyota's communications coordinators say the company never ducked problems, even as they wish they had been quicker to deploy top executives.
''We made lots of mistakes,'' says Jim Wiseman, a communications executive at Toyota Motor North America. ''We could have been out there even more. We should have been. We're trying to take various actions to learn from this.''
The crisis began last September, as the National Highway Traffic Safety Administrationissued an alert that floor mats in some Toyota vehicles appeared to ensnare gas pedals, causing surges in acceleration. The same day, Toyota announced the recall of 3.8 million vehicles.
The administration concluded that the mat problem was probably to blame in an earlier crash of a Lexus -- an accident that killed four people.
A week after the recall, Toyota's C.E.O., Akio Toyoda, issued the first in a string of apologies. ''Four precious lives have been lost,'' he told reporters. ''Customers bought our cars because they thought they were the safest. But now we have given them cause for grave concern. I can't begin to express my remorse.''
Yet even as Mr. Toyoda apologized, the company offered what later looked like false reassurance, emphasizing that if customers removed questionable mats, there was nothing else to worry about. Toyota asserted in a press release that a review by the safety administration had turned up no other problems with Toyota vehicles. That brought an immediate rebuke from the federal agency, which branded the claim ''inaccurate and misleading.''
By late November, Toyota had announced that it would fix gas pedals on four million vehicles to further prevent them from catching on floor mats. The company again declared the problem contained. ''We are very confident that we have addressed this issue,'' a Toyota spokesman, Irv Miller, said at the time.
Yet the next month, four people died in Texas when a Toyota Avalon sped off a roadway and into a pond. The police found the floor mats in the trunk of the car. Toyota says that the cause of the crash has yet to be determined.
As reports mounted that gas pedals might be sticking even when floor mats were not implicated, Toyota wrestled internally with how much to disclose, according to documents later given to government investigators.
On Jan. 16, as Toyota executives prepared to travel to Washington for talks with regulators, Katsuhiko Koganei, a communications coordinator at Toyota Motor Sales USA, sent a note to his colleagues urging that the company not discuss mechanical problems in gas pedals aside from the floor-mat issue, because neither the cause nor the proper remedy for such troubles had been identified. He added that if executives broached the subject, that ''might raise another uneasiness of customers.''
Mr. Koganei's e-mail prompted an agitated response from Mr. Miller. ''We have a tendency for mechanical failure in accelerator pedals of a certain manufacturer on certain models,'' he fired back. ''The time to hide on this one is over. We need to come clean.''
Later that month, as Toyota announced the recall of an additional 2.3 million cars, it acknowledged that gas pedals were sometimes sticking even when floor mats were not an issue, while emphasizing that no serious accidents were linked to the problem.
''Our investigation indicates that there is a possibility that certain accelerator pedal mechanisms may, in rare instances, mechanically stick in a partially depressed position,'' Mr. Miller said in a press release.
According to another Toyota spokesman, Mike Michels, the company's carefully calibrated language was written with the misfortunes of another automaker in mind: Audi.
In the mid-1980s, Audi 5000 vehicles were recalled after reports of sudden accelerations blamed for hundreds of crashes. Audi went on the offensive, contending that drivers had errantly hit the accelerator when they intended to hit the brake. Audi later claimed vindication from a National Highway Traffic Safety Administration review, but blaming the customer proved a costly public relations strategy.
A quarter-century later, as Toyota acknowledged rare problems with its accelerators, it was leaving itself room to argue later that sometimes drivers were at fault -- while pointedly avoiding saying so directly.
''The lesson from Audi is no matter how convinced you are that the driver has made a mistake, it is very sensitive to suggest,'' says Mr. Michels.
Like BP, Toyota had a corporate steward from another country who sometimes stumbled before an American audience. As he apologized to lawmakers on Capitol Hill, Mr. Toyoda spoke heavily accented English and read haltingly from his notes as a gray-suited assemblage of minders sat behind him, shifting nervously as he struggled to pronounce ''condolences.''
''I said at the time, 'Oh my God, he's not communicating with us,' '' recalls Mr. Rubenstein, the longtime P.R. executive. ''He should have somebody that really knows our American society.''
Mr. Michels argues that no one could have substituted for the chief on Capitol Hill. ''You would have had members of Congress pointing out that he wasn't there,'' he says.
But Mr. Toyoda's Congressional performance may have also supplanted a positive image of the supremely efficient Japanese corporation with another Japanese stereotype: a deep-seated aversion to shame.
''They believed in the Japanese strategy of putting a lid on it and maybe it will blow over,'' says Howard Anderson, a crisis management expert at M.I.T.'s Sloan School of Management. ''Stonewalling only gets you into more trouble.''
Yet seeking a way around a painful public reckoning appears to be a nearly universal approach to corporate crises. In the long run, the best course for an embattled company may be swiftly owning up to its errors. But to human beings stuck with the task of disclosing embarrassing details here and now, dissembling and delaying may beckon as the easiest way to get through the day.
One strength of human beings is their ability to learn from mistakes -- governed, as they are, by fear and shame. But corporate bureaucracies are essentially structured to tune out sentiment in the pursuit of profit, making them less prone to absorbing lessons of previous disasters.
''We tend to anthropomorphize corporations,'' says Mr. Hearit at Western Michigan. ''There's this myth of managerial rationality, the idea that corporations can learn. Well, they have no soul to kick. You can't put a corporation in jail.''
Above all, crisis management is conducted with stress and sleeplessness layered atop the usual factionalism and politics afflicting any big organization. Mr. Dezenhall, the strategist, is amused by crises as glimpsed in movies, where people sit at banks of synchronized computers, speaking calmly into headsets.
''The reality is absolute chaos,'' he says. ''Nobody knows what the facts are. The lawyers are trying to get the P.R. consultants fired and the P.R. consultants are criticizing the lawyers. Everybody despises each other. It's a totally unmanageable situation. A corporation in crisis is not a corporation. It is a collection of panicked individuals motivated by self-preservation.''
A Laser Focus on Profits
If there was panic and chaos inside Goldman Sachs, the company kept it hidden, maintaining a consistent communications posture throughout its brush with unwanted scrutiny: Yield little.
Yet in opting to mount an aggressive defense, the company appears to have intensified criticism. As many communications experts see it, Goldman took a series of unsavory but not crippling disclosures about how it profited before, during and after a global financial crisis and -- through a public relations strategy built on arrogance and insensitivity to the national mood -- turned itself into a symbol of Wall Street shenanigans.
Given the loss of jobs, homes and savings attendant to the financial crisis, Wall Street was bound to face sharp questioning about its role in the collapse. Goldman, in particular, seemed certain to confront special scrutiny by dint of its hefty profits, its proximity to pivotal moments in the crisis, and its former executives' ubiquity in Washington's corridors of power.
Goldman's first round of questioning began in the wake of the $85 billion federal bailout of the American International Group, the insurance giant, in 2008. Goldman owned insurance policies from A.I.G. on some of its mortgage investments. Analysts, journalists and federal authorities all raised questions about whether Goldman unfairly benefited from taxpayer funds used to bail out A.I.G.
Such questions were fueled by the resume of a prime architect of the bailout, the Treasury secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., who had formerly led Goldman. (Mr. Paulson has said that he never took action to specifically benefit Goldman, seeking only to buttress the financial system as a whole.)
Like Toyota, Goldman has had internal debates about how forthcoming to be in confronting sharp questioning, with some insiders advocating a swift, unabashed disclosure of its dealings with A.I.G. to avoid inflaming public anger, according to people familiar with the deliberations who requested anonymity because the talks were confidential.
As Congress kept examining Wall Street's role in the crisis, federal investigators made Goldman the first major firm to face legal charges associated with the nation's housing debacle.
In April, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a lawsuit accusing Goldman of securities fraud in marketing a mortgage investment that was built to fail without fully informing clients of its provenance. The hedge fund manager who selected contents of the investment, John A. Paulson, profited mightily, but the banks on the other side of the deal lost more than $1 billion, according to the S.E.C. suit.
Some analysts contend that Goldman, in adopting a defensive posture to queries about how it snared a large piece of the A.I.G. bailout, effectively put itself in front of an onrushing train: an S.E.C. determined to find a high-profile case that would eclipse criticism that it had failed to police Wall Street effectively.
Once the S.E.C. filed its case, bloggers and pundits seized it as proof that Goldman was rigging the financial game. Others criticized the lawsuit as flimsy.
Goldman maintained that it had done nothing wrong, asserting it had merely enabled sophisticated investors to make opposing bets on the mortgage market.
Analysts say that this may have been a smart legal defense -- Goldman ultimately settled the case for a sliver of its profits -- but in the public eye, it intensified views that Goldman hadn't played fair. Never mind its supposed role in enabling American commerce: Goldman was now dismissing allegations of fraud by arguing that, in essence, it had been running a giant casino, in which it had inside information.
How badly did these revelations play? Mr. Anderson, at M.I.T., sees parallels to the sexual abuse scandal in the Roman Catholic Church.
''The priests thought they should be protecting one another rather than the children in their care,'' he says. ''Goldman now has the same problem. It turns out it's, 'We make money for ourselves first, and our customers second,' when it should be the other way around. This is going to hurt them for years.''
Goldman faced an added complication in that its business was arcane and many of its products were exotic. Toyota and BP faced more clear-cut crises that could be conveyed with a simple image or sentence: you could see the oil sullying the gulf, the cars careering out of control. Goldman was accused of failing to disclose details of something called a synthetic collateralized debt obligation, a term that made readers seek refuge in the sports section.
Experts say murkiness could have worked in Goldman's favor, had the company adopted a conciliatory stance. But Goldman has concluded that the obscurity of the bank's business may be the source of its problems, says its head of corporate communications, Lucas van Praag.
''The issues we have aren't rooted in bad communications,'' he says. ''They're a direct function of our business model. One of the things we've learned is it may be perfectly legal but if it's too complicated to explain to ordinary, rational people, then maybe it's a business we ought not be in.''
Like BP, Goldman saw its troubles aggravated by ill-advised sarcasm from its C.E.O., Lloyd C. Blankfein, who told a reporter for The Sunday Times of London that he considered banking as ''God's work.'' Here was another story kit thrown to the press corps, an easily digested narrative to replace the tedious work of explicating Goldman's mind-bending financial arrangements.
Some argue that Goldman's notoriety may matter little to the bank's main constituents: shareholders and clients. Toyota and BP both sell products to ordinary consumers, making image maintenance a crucial concern. Goldman, on the other hand, generally confines its work to serving extremely wealthy people, companies and governments. Its success depends not on being liked, but on being respected for a pursuit that sometimes pulls in the opposite direction -- racking up profits, even amid calamity.
Analysts say Goldman's P.R. woes are compounded by a reality bigger than any one institution: it is a leading investment bank at a time when investment banks are as beloved as bedbugs, airlines and Congress.
''It's a problem of making obscene amounts of money in ways that no one understands in the middle of an economic meltdown,'' suggests Mr. Dezenhall. ''I don't think there is a way to make people love a bank that earns money in the middle of a recession.''
Back to Their Basics
Children stuck on scary roller coasters sometimes close their eyes and wait for the ride to end. So, apparently, do grown-ups heading giant corporations in crisis. This is the conventional explanation for how three enormously successful enterprises managed to prolong and deepen their public relations agony.
''These companies made the same mistakes,'' says Mr. Rubenstein. ''They broke the cardinal rule of crisis management: They didn't seem to have a crisis plan in hand. They sought to minimize the extent of their problems, and they never seemed to display an understanding for the situation they were in.''
But maybe they did understand, and what they grasped keenly was that all of their options were poor. There was nothing they could do short of returning to their fundamental reasons for existence: making petroleum products, making cars, making money.
''We can sit in front of cameras and beat our breasts all we want, but what's going to count is whether we're able to keep making high-quality products,'' says Mr. Wiseman at Toyota.
Five years ago, Tyco International, the electronic security and financial services company, was defined in the public realm by the extravagances of its C.E.O., L. Dennis Kozlowski, and his finance chief, who together were convicted of looting millions from company coffers. For his wife's birthday, Mr. Kozlowski spent some $2 million on a bacchanal at a Sardinian estate, where an ice-sculpture replica of Michelangelo's David served a stream of vodka from its genitalia.
Here was a seemingly fatal public relations issue. Yet, today, Tyco is still going. It endured not by spinning the unspinnable, but by quietly amassing contracts.
''It wasn't getting the chief executive on TV holding a puppy,'' says Mr. Dezenhall. ''You have to have a realistic expectation of what communications can accomplish. Nobody ever says: 'Oh, that's wonderful communications. We feel good now.' ''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 29, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about the testing of corporate public relations departments after recent events that damaged the reputations of companies like Toyota, Goldman Sachs and BP misspelled the surname of a public relations specialist whose clients include the New York Yankees and the News Corporation. He is Howard Rubenstein, not Rubinstein.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs, on Capitol Hill after the bank was accused of fraud. The firm has taken an aggressive public relations stance against critics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Statements by BP's chief, Tony Hayward, angered many Americans, even if he sometimes left behind his pinstriped suits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN GARDNER/REUTERS) (BU6)
 Akio Toyoda, head of Toyota, stumbled in addressing American audiences about its problems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (90%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (72%); BASEBALL (70%); HISTORY (70%); OIL SPILLS (70%); BASKETBALL (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); CASE STUDIES (67%); BEST PRACTICES (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); POISONINGS (60%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (69%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (62%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (69%); NWS (ASX) (69%); JNJ (NYSE) (62%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: TONY HAYWARD (71%); LEBRON JAMES (54%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2010



545 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Going Mad In Herds

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
At the Bunch of Grapes bookstore on Martha's Vineyard, the sojourning President Obama bought a few books, including ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' by Harper Lee. It was for his daughter, but it may have also conjured a sweet memory for the beleaguered president. Only a couple of years ago, when he was campaigning, Obama inspired comparisons with the noble lawyer Atticus Finch.
Now, after flipping about on some hot-button issues, most recently the plan for an Islamic community center and mosque near ground zero, he's more likely to be painted by disillusioned supporters as Atticus Flinch. 
The bookstore gave the president a copy of ''Freedom,'' a new novel by Jonathan Franzen about a dysfunctional family in America. This is apt, since Obama is the head of the dysfunctional family of America -- a rational man running a most irrational nation, a high-minded man in a low-minded age.
The country is having some weird mass nervous breakdown, with the right spreading fear and disinformation that is amplified by the poisonous echo chamber that is the modern media environment.
The dispute over the Islamic center has tripped some deep national lunacy. The unbottled anger and suspicion concerning ground zero show that many Americans haven't flushed the trauma of 9/11 out of their systems -- making them easy prey for fearmongers.
Many people still have a confused view of Muslims, and the president seems unable to help navigate the country through its Islamophobia.
It is a prejudice stoked by Rush Limbaugh, who mocks ''Imam Obama'' as ''America's first Muslim president,'' and by the evangelist Franklin Graham, who bizarrely told CNN's John King: ''I think the president's problem is that he was born a Muslim. His father was a Muslim. The seed of Islam is passed through the father, like the seed of Judaism is passed through the mother.''
Graham added: ''The teaching of Islam is to hate the Jew, to hate the Christian, to kill them. Their goal is world domination.''
A poll last week by the Pew Research Center tracked a strange spike in the number of Americans who believe, despite all evidence to the contrary, that Obama is a Muslim. And even the ones who don't think he's a Muslim don't necessarily believe he's a Christian.
The percentage of Americans who now believe that our Christian president is a Muslim has risen to 18 percent. It was 12 percent when Obama ran for president and 11 percent after his inauguration.
Just as some Americans once feared that John Fitzgerald Kennedy (who was a Catholic) would build a tunnel to Rome, now some fear that Barack Hussein Obama (whose name sounds scary) will build a tunnel to Mecca.
In ''Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds,'' a history of such national follies as England's South Sea Bubble and Holland's Tulip Frenzy, the Scottish historian Charles Mackay observed: ''Men, it has been well said, think in herds; it will be seen that they go mad in herds, while they only recover their senses slowly, one by one.''
He also concluded that people are more prone to believe the ''Wondrously False'' than the ''Wondrously True.''
''Of all the offspring of time, Error is the most ancient, and is so old and familiar an acquaintance, that Truth, when discovered, comes upon most of us like an intruder, and meets the intruder's welcome,'' Mackay wrote, adding that ''a misdirected zeal in matters of religion'' befogs the truth most grievously.
You can have an opinion on the New York mosque, for or against. But there aren't two sides to the question of whether Obama is a Muslim.
As Daniel Patrick Moynihan said, ''Everyone is entitled to his own opinion, but not his own facts.''
How can a man who has written two best-selling memoirs and been on TV so much that some Democrats worried he was overexposed be getting less known and more misunderstood by the day?
The president who is always talking about wanting to be perfectly clear is ever more opaque. The One, who owes his presidency to the intense feeling he stirred up, turns out to be a practical guy who can't deal with intense feeling.
He ran as a man apart -- Joe Biden was enlisted to folksy him up -- and now he must deal with the fact that many see him as a man apart.
Too lofty to pay heed to the daily bump and grind of politics, Obama has failed to present himself as someone with the common touch. And to the extent that people don't know him or don't get him, he becomes easier to demonize.
Obama is the victim of the elevated expectations he so skillfully created in 2008.
He came as a redeemer and then -- tied up in W.'s Gordian knots, dragged down by an economy leeched by wars and Wall Street charlatans -- didn't redeem. And nothing bums out a nation that blows with the wind like a self-appointed messiah who disappoints.
If we're not the ones we've been waiting for, who are we?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



546 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Obama and the Drawdown

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The official end of America's combat mission in Iraq next week will fulfill the campaign promise that helped vault President Obama to the White House, but it also presents profound risks as he seeks to claim credit without issuing a premature declaration of victory.
As columns of vehicles crossed the border and troops arrived to happy homecomings last week, Mr. Obama released a restrained written statement and made a one-sentence reference at a pair of fund-raisers. While some called it the end of the seven-year war, Mr. Obama sought to avoid the sort of ''mission accomplished'' moment that haunted his predecessor.
But the White House wants to find a way to mark the moment and remind voters just two months before midterm elections that he delivered on his vow to pull out combat forces. Mr. Obama plans to make a high-profile speech on the drawdown next week, and aides are discussing whether to have him meet with returning troops. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will address the Veterans of Foreign Wars in Indianapolis on Monday. 
The symbolism of the departing troops that played out on network television masked the more complex reality on the ground. Even as the last designated combat forces leave and the mission formally changes on Aug. 31 to a support role, 50,000 American ''advise and assist'' troops will remain in the country for 16 months more, still in harm's way and still armed for combat if necessary. What's more, Iraq's future remains fraught with challenges amid a stubborn political impasse and a continuing low-grade insurgency.
''Political posturing is the norm in Washington, and claiming victory and an end to a war is far more popular than bearing the burden of leadership and dealing with reality,'' Anthony H. Cordesman, a military specialist at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, wrote on the center's Web site on Friday. ''The Iraq war is not over and it is not 'won.' In fact, it is at as critical a stage as at any time since 2003.''
Denis R. McDonough, chief of staff of the National Security Council, said the administration had no illusions.
''Does anybody believe the violence is going to stop entirely and the opponents to stability and progress in Iraq are going to stand down? No,'' he said. ''But we do know that the Iraqi security forces are in a position to take that role on themselves increasingly.''
The official transition from Operation Iraqi Freedom to Operation New Dawn is as much a change in labels as it is a change in mission. With violence far below its peak in 2006 and 2007, American forces have increasingly taken a back seat to the Iraqi security units they trained.
But after seven years of a war started by President George W. Bush on the basis of false intelligence, the desire for finality, and perhaps closure, has focused attention on this moment and provoked a fresh discussion in Washington about what it all has meant.
After hundreds of billions of dollars, more than 4,400 American military deaths and at least 100,000 Iraqi civilian deaths and perhaps many more, was it worth it? Did toppling a dictator and nursing a fledgling if flawed democracy make a difference? And did the United States salvage credibility by sticking it out and finally stabilizing Iraq even if not winning the clear-cut victory originally envisioned?
''If we can't have a victory parade, we at least ought to be able to make some definitive conclusions,'' said Andrew J. Bacevich, a military specialist at Boston University who lost a son in Iraq and has written a new book, ''Washington Rules: America's Path to Permanent War.'' ''And it just doesn't seem that we are going to do so. We want to just move on, sadly.''
In part, that owes to the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan, where Mr. Obama is sending more troops, as well as the fragile economy at home, where millions of Americans are looking for work. And so while his opposition to the Iraq war animated his early candidacy, it seems almost a secondary issue these days.
During a fund-raising speech in Ohio last week, for instance, Mr. Obama mentioned the Iraq transition only in passing. ''We are keeping the promise I made when I began my campaign for the presidency: by the end of this month, we will have removed 100,000 troops from Iraq, and our combat mission will be over in Iraq,'' he said, a line he later repeated at a fund-raiser in Miami.
As they mark the moment, Democrats generally make no mention of the troop buildup and strategy change ordered by Mr. Bush in 2007, which many credit with turning around the war and making it possible to end combat now. By the time Mr. Bush left office, he had sealed an agreement with Iraq to withdraw all American troops by the end of 2011. After taking office, Mr. Obama ordered an intermediary deadline of drawing down to 50,000 by the end of this month.
Mr. Bush showed up unannounced at the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport earlier this month to greet troops returning from Iraq. While no news media were invited, video posted on YouTube by troop supporters showed him in casual clothes shaking hands and posing for pictures with troops as they entered the terminal one by one.
Mr. Bush has declined to discuss the mission change, but former advisers see it as a validation that after all the pain and the blood, Iraq may finally be in a better place, governed by a freer, more democratic system that could yet serve as a model in an otherwise largely authoritarian Middle East.
''We can take a certain measure of satisfaction from the success in Iraq,'' L. Paul Bremer III, the former Iraqi occupation administrator, said in an interview. ''It's not a complete success yet, obviously, but building democracy takes time.''
He added that ''a successful Arab-Muslim democracy basically puts the lie to the Islamic extremists'' who maintain that democracy is anathema to Islam and advocate a harsh form of rule.
Stephen J. Hadley, who was Mr. Bush's national security adviser, said the current transition was due to the surge ordered by the former president and opposed by Mr. Obama when he was a senator. But he said he was glad that Mr. Obama's team ''has gone through a transition'' and that it seemed to be taking pride in accomplishments in Iraq. He said he hoped that the administration would see the task through.
''If they do, they can rightly claim some measure of credit, and I would be the first to give them credit,'' Mr. Hadley said. ''But they need to stay focused and stay engaged.''
For Mr. Obama, this moment is a reminder of the lesson his predecessor learned after declaring the end of major combat operations on an aircraft carrier in front of a ''Mission Accomplished'' banner in 2003. Iraq was a messy war with no tidy end. ''There will be no surrender ceremony on the deck of a battleship,'' Mr. Bush later concluded.
Mr. Obama has come to the same realization, in almost the exact same words.
''There will be no simple moment of surrender to mark the journey's end,'' he declared last spring.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Soldiers with the Army's Fourth Brigade, Second Infantry Division, boarded an aircraft in Baghdad this month to head home as part of the drawdown of forces. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAYA ALLERUZZO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) INDIANA, USA (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



547 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: University Head's Housing Raises Ire and Expense

BYLINE: By STEVE FAINARU. 
sfainaru@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Five minutes before midnight on June 30, movers hauled the last boxes from a spectacular rented home in the Oakland Hills. The tenant's lease was about to expire, and in his haste to get out, he left behind thousands of dollars of damage to the hardwood floors and Venetian plastered walls.
The tenant was Mark G. Yudof, president of the University of California. His midnight move was the latest chapter in a two-year housing drama that has cost the university more than $600,000 and has drawn senior U.C. officials into an increasingly time-consuming and acrimonious ordeal over the president's private residence.
The effort to resolve Mr. Yudof's housing problems has taken place while the U.C., the nation's largest and most prestigious public university system, struggles with one of the worst financial crises in its history, including layoffs, student protests and tuition increases. 
After six years as chancellor at the University of Texas, Mr. Yudof arrived here in 2008, vowing to bring fiscal responsibility to the 10-campus U.C. system. He chose not to live at university-owned Blake House, the traditional presidential mansion, which the university estimates requires $10 million of renovations and repairs.
Instead, Mr. Yudof, 65, moved with his wife into a 10,000-square-foot, four-story house with 16 rooms, 8 bathrooms and panoramic views. He said he needed the house, which rented for $13,365 a month by the end of the lease and was paid for by U.C., to fulfill his obligation to host functions for staff members, donors and visiting dignitaries.
Mr. Yudof held 23 such functions over a two-year period, according to the university. He also ordered a list of improvements and repairs -- including air conditioning and 12 phones -- that drove up costs and, according to staff members, tied up university officials in meetings and lengthy negotiations on issues ranging from water bills to gopher eradication.
After the Yudofs vacated the property at the end of June, Brennan Mulligan, the landlord, informed university officials that he intended to keep the U.C.'s $32,100 security deposit. Mr. Mulligan requested an additional $45,000 to cover the repairs for hundreds of holes left from hanging art, a scratched marble bathtub, a broken $2,000 Sivoia window shade and other claims.
''At some point, I got a call from the general counsel, and I'm like, 'Why am I talking to the general counsel?' '' said Mr. Mulligan, 40, a boyish Hong Kong-based business consultant and a U.C. Berkeley graduate who bought the Oakland house in 2003 after selling his bike-messenger bag company, Timbuk2.
''To me it's like, 'Is this how they spend their time?' '' Mr. Mulligan said.
Among Mr. Mulligan's list of complaints was the university's failure to respond to a May 2010 notification from the East Bay Municipal Utility District that the district suspected a water leak on the property. By the time the leak was discovered, shortly after Mr. Yudof moved, the house's bimonthly water bill had spiked to nearly $5,000 and 1.2 million gallons of water had trickled into the Oakland Hills, according to copies of the bills.
''It took the plumber 10 minutes to find the leak, literally 10 minutes,'' Mr. Mulligan said at an evening interview at the house, the lights of San Francisco visible beyond the glass facade of the living room. ''There was a broken pipe and a pool of water and I was just like, 'Wow, this looks like that oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico. It's just coming out.' ''
Mr. Yudof said he was unaware of the leak.
On Aug. 5, Mr. Yudof's aides presented Mr. Mulligan with a settlement agreement that would allow him to keep the security deposit and receive an additional $19,759.05. The university presented the written agreement to Mr. Mulligan on the same day The Bay Citizen filed a public-records request for information about the university's expenditures on the house.
On Aug. 8, Mr. Yudof killed the deal.
He said he had been aware of the university's discussions with Mr. Mulligan but balked at the settlement when he learned about the ''outrageous and ridiculous'' terms. He said his decision was unrelated to the public-records request.
''I thought it was totally inappropriate what they were doing,'' Mr. Yudof said of his staff. ''I don't have to sign a settlement proposal drafted by the staff on this or any other matter. And I didn't.''
In an interview last week, Mr. Yudof attributed the housing problems and higher-than-expected costs to Mr. Mulligan, whom he described as ''the landlord from hell.''
He said Mr. Mulligan was often unresponsive to maintenance requests, and in one instance missed a payment to a vendor, forcing the university to pick up the tab for a significant repair.
According to university records, U.C. spent $19,423 to repair a two-person elevator that sometimes stalled between floors. E-mails released by U.C. under The Bay Citizen's records request show that Mr. Yudof's wife, Judith -- who has knee problems that make it difficult to climb stairs -- gently implored Mr. Mulligan to pay a delinquent bill from the elevator's installer, which refused to service the elevator until the bill was paid.
The university ultimately used another company to repair the elevator; on one occasion U.C. paid $3,180.24 in overtime ($530.04 per hour) to complete the work, according to a copy of the bill.
Mr. Mulligan said he unknowingly missed the payment to the elevator company but then immediately sent a check by express mail. He said he did not see a bill from the university until he entered into negotiations for damages two years later and U.C. officials sought reimbursement.
The university paid $70,806.73 to move Mr. Yudof to Oakland from Texas and $39,107.30 to move him again when Mr. Mulligan refused to extend the lease. The frantic move from the Oakland location lasted from 7:30 a.m. to 1:45 a.m. the next day, according to billing records. During the three-week search for a new house, the Yudofs took up residence in a discounted suite at the Claremont Hotel & Spa in the Berkeley Hills, at a cost of $8,394.16 to the U.C.
''I don't think it was a good experience,'' Mr. Yudof said, referring to living in the Oakland house. ''Under the circumstances, it was the best I could do.'' The home was comparable to that of other university presidents, he added.
The U.C. spent $127,443 on security at the house, following threats against Mr. Yudof and several visits to the house by protesters.
Despite the near settlement, university officials said they intended to go to mediation with Mr. Mulligan and were prepared to litigate to recover the security deposit and other damages.
The money spent on the house came from a private endowment. It was a relatively small sum for a $20 billion, 180,000-employee public university that supports 10 campuses, five medical centers and a national laboratory. But the lavish spending and the numerous hours spent by university officials managing Mr. Yudof's personal affairs have chafed some members of his team.
''He essentially turned the Office of the President into his personal staff,'' a university official said.
Much of the activity took place out of public view. The Office of the President filed at least six reports of ''interim actions'' related to the house that took place between public meetings of the Board of Regents.
Mr. Yudof and his wife have settled into a new home in Lafayette. The rent is $11,500 a month. The house ''potentially will save the university as much as 25 percent of what was required to maintain the previous residence,'' according to a report filed to the board.
The new house is 4,837 square feet, less than half the size of the Mulligan residence.
Tucked in the new lease is a provision designed to help protect the landlord against damages incurred. ''Landlord must approve any items affixed to the walls,'' it reads.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Blake House, the traditional residence of presidents of the University of California, on Wednesday. It is in Kensington.
Mark G. Yudof, president of the University of California, lived in this home at 16 Woodmont Way in the Oakland Hills, shown Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) (A23A)
 Mark Yudof (A23B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); TUITION FEES (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (68%); LAYOFFS (68%); LAWYERS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



548 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: THE WEEK AHEAD AUG. 22--AUG. 28

 BODY:
Television
Ginia Bellafante
Four years ago Spike Lee's documentary ''When the Levees Broke: A Requiem in Four Acts'' chronicled, in part, the beginnings of New Orleans's post-Hurricane Katrina rebirth. Shown on HBO, the film was much praised and won both Emmy and Peabody awards. Mr. Lee follows up with the two-part ''IF GOD IS WILLING AND DA CREEK DON'T RISE'' on HBO, Monday and Tuesday at 9 p.m. Here he documents the continued efforts to revive a fallen city, charting the work to restore infrastructure, education and economic growth. Mr. Lee arrives in New Orleans after the Saints have won the Super Bowl and the city is in high spirits. But he quickly burrows his way into the serious problems still plaguing it, particularly affordable housing. 
''LAW & DISORDER,'' a presentation of Frontline, makes its debut on PBS on Wednesday at 9 p.m. and also focuses on Hurricane Katrina's aftermath. (This month is the fifth anniversary of the hurricane.) A collaboration between The New Orleans Times-Picayune and ProPublica, ''Law & Disorder'' examines allegations that the New Orleans Police Department used unnecessarily lethal force on residents after the hurricane and then tried to cover up its actions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scene from Spike Lee's two-part documentary ''If God Is Willing and da Creek Don't Rise,'' on HBO. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



549 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Closing the Racial Gap in Education

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Triumph Fades on Racial Gap in City Schools'' (front page, Aug. 16):
As a teacher and psychologist for 35 years in New York City public schools, I and my colleagues saw and fought the devastating effects of chronic deprivation, neglect, poverty, single-parent households, foster care, parental incarceration and drug use, and other ills before the mayor and chancellor blamed the staffs of the schools for poor academic progress.
It is time for this administration, which graded schools and teachers based on inaccurate and misleading numbers, to cease blaming teachers and principals and join with them in struggling to meet our students' needs. School staffs were never the primary problem. They aren't now. 
Charles Merrill New York, Aug. 16, 2010
To the Editor:
Having taught in the New York City public schools for almost 40 years, I can say for sure that there is no magic bullet for the racial gap. For different students, different solutions must be found.
Additional education in small groups and tutoring have to be part of the solution. So do smaller class sizes, mentoring and arts education. Improving the home environment, reducing television viewing, encouraging reading and rewarding good students are also needed. Getting better teachers by paying them more is another vital component.
There is no single solution; the right answer is ''E,'' all of the above.
Jay Stonehill Atlantic Beach, N.Y., Aug. 16, 2010
To the Editor:
I marveled at the range of opinions that learned people gave about the reasons for the racial gap in test scores. Reasons mentioned in your article included our struggling economy and ''an increase in fatherless black households.'' In other words, they blamed the students and their families.
But one cause the article did not mention is the elephant in the room when it comes to education: racism. As an elementary educator, I've seen both systemic and situational racism work actively against my students of color.
It's not until these elusive beasts are acknowledged and dealt with honestly that true educational progress for all of our students will occur. Perhaps New York City schools, instead of the tired ''blame the students'' mentality, need to look at themselves first.
Jim Hiller Beaverton, Ore., Aug. 16, 2010
To the Editor:
Joel I. Klein, the schools chancellor, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg made education a top priority and have never wavered from this. Is the job done? No. And both the chancellor and the mayor will be the first to say this.
But let's not confuse test scores with accomplishment. Constantly moving the bar -- state tests, national tests, changes (after the fact) in scoring tests -- doesn't mean that there hasn't been progress and doesn't mean that the racial gap isn't improving.
The high school graduation rate is up, and good progress has been made at smaller schools, another priority for the chancellor and the mayor.
Education for urban kids has been failing for decades. I hope that it won't take decades to reverse the trend. But improvement will be necessarily slow. If someone knew the answer to fixing education fast, we would surely have done it by now.
Marley Kaplan Brooklyn, Aug. 16, 2010
The writer is president of the nonprofit organization Chess-in-the-Schools.
To the Editor:
Racial gaps in educational performance are a national epidemic. But the best way to narrow the achievement gap is to prevent it from forming, which research shows is evident as early as nine months of age.
The first five years of a child's life are crucial in developing the brain architecture and skills necessary to succeed in school. Evaluations of Early Head Start indicate that children who receive services for five years beginning at birth fare better than those who spend only two years before kindergarten in preschool. Unfortunately, Early Head Start is underfunded and reaches very few eligible children.
Until we acknowledge the critical role that early education plays in shaping a child's success in school and life, and properly finance quality birth-to-5 programs, racial and economic disparities in student achievement will persist.
Diana Mendley Rauner Executive Director Ounce of Prevention Fund Chicago, Aug. 16, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YAREK WASZUL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); FAMILY (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



550 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Rachel Geller, Jonathan Schmerin

 BODY:
Rachel Lindsay Geller, the daughter of Debra I. Geller and Jeffrey A. Geller of Chappaqua, N.Y., was married Saturday evening to Jonathan Erlich Schmerin, a son of Dafna E. Schmerin and Dr. Michael J. Schmerin of New York. Rabbi Peter E. Hyman, an uncle of the bride, officiated at Blue Hill at Stone Barns, the restaurant on the Rockefeller family's Pocantico Hills estate in Tarrytown, N.Y. 
Mrs. Schmerin, 28, is returning to New York University next month, where she is pursuing a master's degree in multilingual multicultural studies and where Mr. Schmerin, 32, has been studying for a master's in real estate. The bride graduated from Tulane.
Her father is a managing director of the asset management unit of JPMorgan Chase in New York; he is chief investment officer of the Americas division of its global multi-asset group.
The bridegroom is a partner in the Georgetown Company, a real estate development firm in New York. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania.
His mother teaches history at De La Salle Academy, a private school in New York for academically talented and economically disadvantaged middle school students. She is also on the board of trustees of the American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art. His father is a gastroenterologist in private practice in New York and a clinical assistant professor of medicine at Weill Medical College of Cornell University. He is on the board of De La Salle Academy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (71%); GASTROENTEROLOGY (70%); MULTILINGUALISM (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); CHILDREN (67%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (67%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



551 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: THE CHATTER

 BODY:
''Four years of unemployment is a luxury we can no longer allow ourselves.''
Claus Hjort Frederiksen,the Danish finance minister. Denmark has cut its benefits system, the world's most generous, by limiting unemployment payments to two years instead of four. 
''This is just the beginning.''
Wang Tao, an economist at UBS in Beijing, on China's recent growth, which has caused it to unseat Japan as the world's second-largest economy, after the United States.
''Deflation is clearly a risk but it is not here yet.''
Nigel Gault, the chief United States economist for IHS Global Insight, after a report showing that producer prices for finished goods rose slightly in July, the first such increase in three months.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); DEFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PRODUCER PRICES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (69%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); DENMARK (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



552 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Alisha Holland, Glen Weyl

BYLINE: By ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

 BODY:
Alisha Caroline Holland and Eric Glen Weyl were married Saturday at the home of David Hariton, an uncle of the bridegroom, and Tod Lippy, Mr. Hariton's partner, in Elka Park, N.Y. Deepa Ranganathan, a friend of the couple who became a minister for the occasion through Ministerial Seminary of America, officiated.
The bride and bridegroom, both 25, met at Princeton, from which they graduated with highest honors, and from which the bridegroom also received a doctorate in economics. 
The bride is pursuing a law degree and a doctorate in political science at Harvard.
She is the daughter of Dona Kercher and Norman S. Holland of Amherst, Mass. The bride's mother is a professor of Spanish and film at Assumption College in Worcester, Mass. Her father is the dean of the School of Humanities, Arts and Cultural Studies, and associate professor of Hispano literatures, at Hampshire College in Amherst.
The bridegroom, known as Glen, is a junior fellow in economics and philosophy at the Harvard Society of Fellows, a three-year program for a small group of scholars. He is conducting research in industrial economics.
He is the son of Lorraine Hariton and Stephen Weyl, who live and work in Washington. The bridegroom's mother is the special representative for commercial and business affairs in the bureau of economic, energy and business affairs at the State Department. His father is an executive vice president of Invism, an educational technology company in Greenwood Village, Colo. He manages technology and intellectual property.
The couple met in a Latin American politics class in fall 2003, where Mr. Weyl, who traveled to class on inline skates, noticed how well she was doing in class, and was also intrigued by her fashion sense: ''She has a Latin style with very big and unusual types of earrings. Always different, with a lot of detail,'' he said.
It wasn't until November that they finally spoke, briefly, at a debate club meeting, and then they talked again over guacamole and sangria at the Christmas party for the Latin American studies program.
''I recognized him as the guy who Rollerblades to class,'' said Ms. Holland, who is also a figure skater. ''We talked about Latin America, figure skating and Rollerblading.''
They continued the conversation online and then went out a few times, but found that they were not connecting.
He remembered thinking to himself, ''This thing is not working,'' he said. Nevertheless, he decided to see Ms. Holland one last time, for a movie date.
While waiting for the film to begin, Mr. Weyl pulled out a copy of Prism, a campus magazine. In one of the articles, Ms. Holland said: ''Someone had used very fancy vocabulary, inventing phrases that didn't make sense. We just started doubling over in laughter, and it continued after the movie.''
They soon also got caught up in the presidential primaries and decided to take a trip up to New Hampshire to campaign for Wesley Clark.
During the six-hour ride in Ms. Holland's mother's car, called Tallulah, they listened to old Libertarian speeches from the 1960s and to John F. Kennedy's inaugural address.
They also went through ''seven different layers of analysis,'' he recalled, of the Don McLean song ''American Pie'' -- including mentions of ''the jester and the king,'' which they agreed referred to Bob Dylan and Elvis Presley, and of ''the Father, Son and the Holy Ghost,'' which they agreed referred respectively to President Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr.
Before they arrived in New Hampshire, he said, ''We fell in love.'' ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN KALLINA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); FILM (88%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (86%); FILM SCHOOLS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); ICE SKATING (69%); WINTER SPORTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (64%); CHRISTMAS (61%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (71%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



553 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2242 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye Glitz

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
THE recession has not been kind to many new condominium developments in New York City. Some have stalled midconstruction; others have shuttered their sales offices because of inactivity; some developers have had to return deposits to buyers as prices took a nosedive.
But two years after the real estate market seized up, some of the hardest-hit developments have found ways to rise from the ashes. In some cases, the original developers avoided default by renegotiating their construction loans, and in others new developers stepped in and took over.
In all cases, the need for reinvention has been paramount.
To adjust to a market strikingly different from the high-flying one that reigned when these projects were conceived, developers have not only created new marketing campaigns but also substantially changed the buildings themselves. Focusing less on trendiness and more on value, they have redesigned lobbies, combined apartments to create more family-sized units, and swapped luxuries like private roof cabanas for shared amenities like common roof decks. The changes all seek to appeal to today's much more skeptical buyer. 
At be@schermerhorn, a 246-unit condo in downtown Brooklyn that stood unfinished and vacant for most of 2009, a new owner started selling apartments in the building three months ago, after deciding to broaden the target audience of buyers and also creating amenities like storage space and a roof deck.
''We retooled the project to what we think fits the market today,'' said Michael Phillips, the creative director of Jamestown Properties, an original investor that has now taken over both the building and the troubled mortgage of the developer, SDS Procida. The changes that Jamestown made were ''less about grand gestures and more about sensitivity to consumer interest,'' Mr. Phillips said. ''Maybe in the last economy, big, glossy marketing and overpromising was acceptable, but that's really not relevant for buyers today.''
In early 2009 the project went over budget, lenders cut off financing, construction stopped and contractors put liens on the property. Curbed.com dubbed it a ''zombie building,'' and when given the chance most of the 40 buyers took their deposits and ran.
Jamestown assumed control in late 2009 and decided that the original marketing plan aimed at 20-somethings was too limited. ''We wanted to cast a wider net and appeal to young families and empty-nesters and maybe be a little less trendy,'' Mr. Phillips said.
The first brochures had pronounced, ''be@ is not just an address, it's an attitude,'' and had shown beautiful young people dining out or shooting pool. New marketing materials promise ''clean styling and attractive pricing,'' and feature a child reaching for a juice box at a local market and an older gentleman leaving the building with his dog.
Inside the building, bold design colors were traded for more neutral ones; part of the parking garage was converted to 60 storage units; and six private roof cabanas were turned into a common roof deck. Jamestown also cut prices by 25 percent and obtained approval for loans through the Federal Housing Administration to help buyers get financing. After three months back on the market, they have about 140 accepted offers.
Tarsha Carvey and her partner, Iris Mulero, stuck with the building, despite being offered three chances to cancel their 2009 contract for a one-bedroom for under $400,000. ''I knew that 80 percent of the people were pulling out,'' said Ms. Carvey, who works as an executive assistant at Nickelodeon, ''but I don't like to follow the crowd.'' The couple now are looking at a larger one-bedroom with a home office for the same price, with the building's blessing. ''The whole energy of the building now is very classy,'' she said, ''and it's a lot more high-end than I ever expected it to be.''
The storage units and the roof deck were big selling points for Andon George and Paula McCreedy, who are nearly empty-nesters, as their son, Alex, is a recent college graduate. They are in contract for a two-bedroom for $542,000, and they also bought a storage unit ''for all the records and files that one accumulates over a lifetime,'' said Mr. George, who is an architect. The deck, with its expansive harbor and city views, helped them imagine living beyond the walls of their apartment, he added, because ''we can have people over for dinner and start with a drink on the roof.''
A new roof terrace has also figured in recent sales at Warehouse 11, a 120-unit building in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, that was stalled for most of 2009 and was reintroduced early this year. The developer, McCaren Park Mews LLC, defaulted on a $50 million mortgage, filed for bankruptcy and negotiated the loan down to $35.5 million. In the process, about 30 buyers were released from their contracts and real estate blogs had a field day describing the project as a failure that had been exposed to the elements for too long and was most likely falling apart.
The building first opened for sales in the summer of 2008, right before the market went into free fall. David Maundrell, the president of aptsandlofts.com, which has handled marketing for the building, said the 2008 sales activity provided ''an opportunity to look at what didn't work the first time and change things.''
The plan had called for a children's playroom and 60 private roof cabanas. ''But there was no interest at all in a playroom because the family market in Williamsburg is still developing,'' Mr. Maundrell said. No one was buying cabanas, either. So the playroom was replaced with a billiard/television room, and the cabanas were removed to create a common roof deck. Prices were also dropped, by 25 to 35 percent, and the building is now nearly 80 percent sold.
Leonardo and Valeria Caputi recently bought a top-floor apartment and a parking space for $590,000. The apartment alone had been priced at $750,000 in 2008. The Caputis moved from Bayside, Queens, and Mr. Caputi said, ''I don't want to be dramatic, but there's not a morning when we wake up that we're not excited to be here.'' They love being one subway stop from Manhattan and one block from McCarren Park.
The Caputis were well aware of Warehouse 11's bad press, but Mr. Caputi, who works in law enforcement, said that Mr. Maundrell ''didn't shy away from any of it, and he kept us apprised of what was being done to deal with any issues.'' He added, ''So far, we haven't had any problems with the building.''
Mr. Caputi said that the roof's panoramic views of Manhattan, Brooklyn and beyond had helped persuade them to buy. The Caputis have made a point of going up to the roof deck every evening, ''even if it's just for five minutes, just to look at the city and take it all in.''
But other projects in Williamsburg, which may have the city's highest concentration of stalled developments, have not been reborn as condos. The 40-unit building at 349 Metropolitan Avenue was planned as a condo but recently opened as a rental. It was nearly 70 percent sold in the summer of 2008, when the developer, 349 Metropolitan Avenue LLC, defaulted on its construction loan and returned buyers' deposits. While the building sat vacant, vandals tagged the limestone facade with graffiti, and chunks of the first-floor facade were stripped off.
When another developer, Masada Metropolitan LLC, stepped in about eight months ago and bought the original developer's $12 million loan for $6.3 million, the first thing it did was replace the facade. ''It was ugly,'' said Nissim Ben-nun, a principal of Masada. ''But the real reason we changed it was it was unsafe.'' The new facade is a blend of stone and plate glass. And to bring some of the Williamsburg arts scene into the building, they commissioned R. Nicholas Kuszyk, a local artist, to paint a four-story mural in an interior courtyard.
In addition to paying off the bank, Mr. Ben-nun said, he also had to spend $3 million to clear contractors' liens, an additional $2 million to get clear title to the property from the original developer, and $1 million more to replace the facade and finish construction. ''Financially I'd be better off selling'' the apartments as condos, he said, ''but I decided to rent it and own it for a while, maybe leave it to my kids.''
Mr. Maundrell, who is also marketing the building, said that selling it as condos would have taken seven to eight months but that he felt certain he could rent it more quickly. At the first open house earlier this month, 21 of the 40 apartments were rented at current market rates, with one-bedrooms listed for about $2,200 and two-bedrooms about $2,800.
Some developers with stalled projects are confident that after a hiatus of a year or longer, now may be a good time to reintroduce their buildings, because prices have stabilized. This is the case for the Lotta condominium, on 118th Street in Harlem, and 1 Rector Park, in Battery Park City. Both buildings were rentals that developers had decided to turn into condos, and both came to market just as the economy started to hit the skids in 2008.
The Lotta had one out of 34 apartments in contract when the developers, Gal Sela and Eli Idi, decided to take the condos off the market in August 2008 and instead turned the building into a youth hostel. For about $40 a night, travelers could rent a bunk bed in an apartment with stone counters, Kohler bath fixtures and Italian design kitchen cabinets. The cabinets were outfitted with locks so guests could have personal storage space, but the stainless steel kitchen appliances weren't hooked up.
Tourists filled rooms that had up to six bunk beds and attended events like pub crawls, rooftop cocktail gatherings and holiday parties in the lounge. But city officials shut down the hostel in April because it had only one stairway exit, which is inadequate for as many as 260 hostel guests, but fine for a typically smaller condo population.
Gilad Azaria, an agent with Prudential Douglas Elliman who will be the sales director for the Lotta when it reopens in the fall, said the owners had decided to turn the building back into a condominium ''because the market looks good right now'' and it would have been difficult to meet building requirements to keep it a hostel. Mr. Azaria said the hostel had provided a good way for the owners ''to stay afloat, hold the building and get through the recession.'' It was enough of a success that the owners are planning a new hostel in Long Island City.
Before opening the condo, they will refinish the apartments and redesign the building's public spaces. One-bedrooms will sell for about $350,000 and two-bedrooms for about $550,000, roughly 20 percent less than original asking prices.
At 1 Rector Park, some prices will be more than 50 percent lower than in 2008. Apartments back then were listed at $957 to $1,585 per square foot, and prices now will range from $417 to $1,304 per square foot. Studios will be available for $300,000; one-bedrooms for $365,000 to $760,000; and two bedrooms from $775,000 to $1.17 million. The developer also created some three- and four-bedroom apartments with price tags upward of $2 million.
Originally, about 10 percent of the 174 apartments had gone into contract, but by mid-2009, the developer, Buttonwood Real Estate, had failed to hit its sales goals and had to turn the keys over to the lender, iStar Financial, which in late 2009 hired Corcoran Sunshine to help ''reposition'' the building.
James Lansill, a senior managing director of Corcoran Sunshine, said many of the original design elements ''didn't seem as relevant to the economy today.'' The lobby design, for example, started out with the feel of a night club, with a lot of dark wood, and was replaced with lighter tones and softer furniture.
Like the new developers of be@schermerhorn, the new developer for 1 Rector Park decided to broaden its target audience. Model apartments originally had a sleek aesthetic meant to lure younger buyers. Mr. Lansill says his marketing team has developed character profiles to reflect a more diverse buying population and has had designers create model apartments accordingly. The characters include a young single man who has just moved from California to be a banker; a couple whose grown children have moved out; a family with two children and a third on the way; a young married couple obsessed with cooking; and a divorced woman.
Perhaps the most noticeable change is in the building's Web site and marketing materials, which Mr. Lansill described as ''radical'' in their simplicity. The home page of the site offers three ways to search for an apartment: by price, size, or view. ''There's no image of the project, no hip-y line about how it's the most luxurious place where you will live,'' he said. ''You get pure information instantly, and not at the 17th screen after you've been bludgeoned with all this information about lifestyle.''
The reason for such directness? ''We're in a dramatically changed market from where we were two years ago,'' Mr. Lansill said. ''Buyers are skeptical now, and they don't want to be information-starved.''
He added that since prices had been lowered so much, ''we are going to offer one price, no negotiation.'' They have done their research and can show buyers that the apartments are priced below the competition in the area, he said. A week after the Web site went up, there were 31 contracts at full price, almost double the number of sales the first time around.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
TRYING AGAIN: Sales faltered at the Lotta condo in Harlem, top left, so the owner converted the building to a youth hostel
a room is at center and a bathroom near left. The city closed the hostel, and the building will once again be sold as condos
renderings from 2008, top right and far left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE, OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
LOTTA CONDO
L-HOSTELS
LOTTA CONDO
OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
OWN TO RENT: 349 Metropolitan in Williamsburg started out as condos, but the developer defaulted. The new owner is renting the units, and has replaced the facade, right, and hired a local artist to do a mural, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CHANGES: Leonardo and Valeria Caputi say a new roof deck at Warehouse 11, above, in Brooklyn was a big selling point. Below, a model apartment at 1 Rector Park, where three- and four-bedroom units have been created. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP, CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE, MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (73%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); EMPTY NESTERS (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); MARKETING PLAN (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



554 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
TALIBAN INTENSIFY CAMPAIGN
Against the Afghan Police
A Taliban campaign focusing on the Afghan police appears to have intensified in recent days, with five incidents reported in which at least 15 policemen were killed throughout the country. Three of the policemen died in a NATO airstrike. PAGE 10
IRAN OPENS NUCLEAR PLANT 
Thirty-six years after construction began under the shah, Iran finally opened its first nuclear power plant at a ceremony. The opening was attended by senior officials from Iran and Russia, which helped build the station through years of concern by the United States and other Western nations that Iran was using its civilian program to mask a plan to build a bomb. PAGE 8
JOINT EFFORT ON THE TITANIC
Since divers first reached the wreckage of the Titanic, commercial efforts to salvage artifacts from the ocean liner have aroused scientific dispute. Now an American company that has removed artifacts will attempt to mend fences by sponsoring voyages that will, for the first time, carefully document and map the wreck site. PAGE 8
Moscow Bombing Suspect Killed 12
National
TWO FUNDS, SAME GOAL
It would seem that Kenneth R. Feinberg, the man doling out BP's $20 billion oil spill compensation fund, has been down this path before, when he administered the $7 billion Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund. But his new assignment could prove trickier. News Analysis. PAGE 14
A SOCIAL APPEAL
Thousands of people descended into the center of Grand Rapids, Mich., to ride a 500-foot inflatable water slide, in the latest public event conceived and publicized via Facebook, each one drawing dozens to thousands of participants to the city. PAGE 14
Metropolitan
FINDING A ROOMMATE
In the Digital Age
There was a time when every newcomer arrived on campus to find a perfect stranger. But that rite is being upended as more colleges let students use new technologies to find roommates. PAGE 1
DEMOCRACY, THE HARD WAY
New York State says it is in the process the era of electronic voting. But when voters arrive at their polling stations, they will get a paper ballot and magnifying sheets will be available. They will need them. City Critic by Ariel Kaminer. PAGE 1
Sports
U.S. STARS FACE TEST
In Truly Hostile Arenas
As the United States aims for the gold medal in the world basketball championship in Turkey, two of its primary weaknesses are youth and international inexperience. To this team of predominantly young N.B.A. players, an adverse environment often means clapping ThunderStix and blaring songs by the Black Eyed Peas. So a looming uncertainty is how stars might handle a hostile atmosphere in foreign arenas, where fans are known for throwing coins and batteries. PAGE 1
FAULTING N.F.L. DRUG TESTS
The N.F.L.'s drug testing program has often been credited as one of the strongest in professional sports. But experts express concern that players are informed of coming tests in advance, removing the element of surprise, an essential part of drug testing. PAGE 1
Obituaries
HARRISON PRICE, 89
An internationally known research economist who advised the developers of the world's most famous theme parks, like Disneyland in Anaheim, Calif., and Walt Disney World in Orlando, Fla. PAGE 20
Sunday Business
DEBT'S DEADLY GRIP
It's one of the toughest lessons an investor has to learn: while the value of assets can plummet posthaste, it takes forever to shrink the debt that was used to buy them. Last week, this harsh truth was made clear yet again, in a report on consumers' financial well-being by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In this climate, how can consumers dig their way out of debt? Fair Game by Gretchen Morgenson. PAGE 1
Arts & Leisure
VOICES OF AMERICA:
A Mormon Moment
In 1962, tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union were about to boil over. But for the 360 members of the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, the pressure felt even more immense. The choir was singing not just for the faith but for the nation itself. PAGE 1
A POP STAR OUT OF THE BOX
Over the last few years Katy Perry has proved adept at working the angles of the modern pop star playbook, including relentless promotion and cheeky over-the-top persona. She also has made an unlikely turnaround from gospel singer to provocative starlet, while keeping her audience tracking the authenticity of both. PAGE 1
Magazine
THE PRE-ADULT LIFE STAGE
They delay beginning career paths and put off commitments. The psychologist Jeffrey Arnett says that 20-somethings are simply acting their age. PAGE 28
THE KNOCKOFF FACTORY
In Southern China, making fake tennis shoes has become a very big business. Chinese authorities are slow to enforce the law, and it's becoming harder to tell which shoes are real. PAGE 38
The 60th Democrat Page 22
Book Review
'THE TENTH PARALLEL'
Eliza Griswold takes a fascinating journey along a line of latitude in Africa and Asia where Christianity and Islam often clash. PAGE 1
Sunday Styles
CELEBRITY DIVORCE:
Brant v. Brant
He was a billionaire with a vast art collection and his very own polo team. She was a Sports Illustrated supermodel and the ex-girlfriend of a rock star. The union of Peter and Stephanie Brant was always a bit odd, and now it has turned into one of the most bitter, high-profile divorces in years. PAGE 1
Automobiles
IS THE $375,000 LEXUS
Ferrari Fighter or Fantasy?
Is the Lexus LFA -- intended as a ''halo car'' to enhance public perceptions of the Lexus brand -- worth $375,000? On a racetrack, where economic reality has no pit pass, it makes perfect sense. SportsSunday, PAGE 12
Week in Review
NOW PLAYING:
Night of the Living Tech
Life in the media terrarium is getting perilous. Phone calls, e-mail messages, blogs and Facebook, according to pundits, are speeding toward the grave. Yet evolution has always been the primary rule of media ecology. PAGE 1
Editorial
COME AGAIN?
Republicans, who claim to be worried about the deficit, are now determined to overturn one of health care reform's central cost-control mechanisms. Week in Review, Page 7
FREE THAT TENOR SAX
Newly discovered jazz recordings show why copyright laws need revisiting. Week in Review, Page 7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); POWER PLANTS (72%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); BP GULF SPILL CLAIMS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (68%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); BASKETBALL (65%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (61%); BALLOTS (61%); OIL SPILLS (51%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); TURKEY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



555 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths NETREBA, SYDNEY S.

 BODY:
NETREBA--Sydney S.,passed away peacefully in Millbrae, CA on August 14, 2010 at the age of 91. Born in Pennsylvania on December 4, 1918, grew up in Brooklyn, NY. He graduated from Abraham Lincoln High School. He earned a B.S. from City College of NY in 1940. He served in the U.S. Army Air Corps and saw heavy battle in the South Pacific during WW II. After the war, he earned a doctorate in economics from Johns Hopkins University. During his long career in the financial field, he was a partner first at Kuhn, Loeb & Co. and then at Bear Stearns in New York and closed his professional career with Robert C. Brown & Co. in San Francisco. Together with his wife, Mildred Dubrow Netreba, who pre-deceased him in 2000, and daughter Laurie, who pre-deceased him in 1998, he was a long term resident of Atherton, CA. He is survived by many nieces, nephews, grand-nieces, and grand-nephews. Dearly loved by his many friends and former colleagues for his intellect, kindness quick wit and plethora of talents, he will be sorely missed. His memory will forever remain in our hearts. Funeral services are to be private. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); WORLD WAR II (76%); ARMIES (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%)

COMPANY: BROWN & CO SECURITIES CORP (56%); BROWN & CO PLC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: BRWN (CSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010



556 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Disaster at The Top of The World

BYLINE: By THOMAS HOMER-DIXON. 
Thomas Homer-Dixon is a professor of global systems at the Balsillie School of International Affairs in Waterloo, Canada.

 BODY:
Aboard the Louis S. St-Laurent
STANDING on the deck of this floating laboratory for Arctic science, which is part of Canada's Coast Guard fleet and one of the world's most powerful icebreakers, I can see vivid evidence of climate change. Channels through the Canadian Arctic archipelago that were choked with ice at this time of year two decades ago are now expanses of open water or vast patchworks of tiny islands of melting ice.
In 1994, the ''Louie,'' as the crew calls the ship, and a United States Coast Guard icebreaker, the Polar Sea, smashed their way to the North Pole through thousands of miles of pack ice six- to nine-feet thick. ''The sea conditions in the Arctic Ocean were rarely an issue for us in those days, because the thick continuous ice kept waves from forming,'' Marc Rothwell, the Louie's captain, told me. ''Now, there's so much open water that we have to account for heavy swells that undulate through the sea ice. It's almost like a dream: the swells move in slow motion, like nothing I've seen elsewhere.'' 
The Arctic is warming twice as fast as the rest of the planet, and this summer its sea ice is melting at a near-record pace. The sun is heating the newly open water, so it will take longer to refreeze this winter, and the resulting thinner ice will melt more easily next summer.
At the same time, warm Pacific Ocean water is pulsing through the Bering Strait into the Arctic basin, helping melt a large area of sea ice between Alaska and eastern Siberia. Scientists are just beginning to learn how this exposed water has changed the movement of heat energy and major air currents across the Arctic basin, in turn producing winds that push remaining sea ice down the coasts of Greenland into the Atlantic.
Globally, 2010 is on track to be the warmest year on record. In regions around the world, indications abound that earth's climate is quickly changing, like the devastating mudslides in China and weeks of searing heat in Russia. But in the world's capitals, movement on climate policy has nearly stopped.
Democrats in the Senate decided last month that they wouldn't push for approval of a climate bill. In Canada, Australia, Japan and countries across Europe, the global economic crisis and other near-term concerns have pushed climate issues to the back burner. For China and India, economic growth and energy security are more vital priorities.
Climate policy is gridlocked, and there's virtually no chance of a breakthrough. Many factors have conspired to produce this situation. Human beings are notoriously poor at responding to problems that develop incrementally. And most of us aren't eager to change our lifestyles by sharply reducing our energy consumption.
But social scientists have identified another major reason: Climate change has become an ideologically polarizing issue. It taps into deep personal identities and causes what Dan Kahan of Yale calls ''protective cognition'' -- we judge things in part on whether we see ourselves as rugged individualists mastering nature or as members of interconnected societies who live in harmony with the environment. Powerful special interests like the coal and oil industries have learned how to halt movement on climate policy by exploiting the fear people feel when their identities are threatened.
Given this reality, we'll almost certainly need some kind of devastating climate shock to get effective climate policy. That's the key lesson of the recent financial crisis: when powerful special interests have convinced much of the public that what they're doing isn't dangerous, only a disaster that discredits those interests will provide an opportunity for comprehensive policy change like the Dodd-Frank financial regulations.
It is possible that the changes I'm seeing from the ship deck are the beginning of the climate shock that will awaken us to the danger we face. Scientists aren't sure what will happen when a significant portion of the Arctic Ocean changes from white, sunlight-reflecting ice to dark, sunlight-absorbing open water. But most aren't sanguine.
These experts are especially concerned that new patterns of air movement in the Arctic could disrupt the Northern Hemisphere's jet streams -- which are apparently weakening and moving northward. This could alter storm tracks, rainfall patterns and food production far to the south.
The limited slack in the world's food system, particularly its grain production, can amplify the effects of disruptions. Remember that two years ago, when higher oil prices encouraged farmers to shift enormous tracts of cropland from grain to biofuel production, grain prices quickly doubled or tripled. Violence erupted in dozens of countries. Should climate change cause crop failures in major food-producing regions of Europe, North America and East Asia, the consequences would likely be far more severe.
Policy makers need to accept that societies won't make drastic changes to address climate change until such a crisis hits. But that doesn't mean there's nothing for them to do in the meantime. When a crisis does occur, the societies with response plans on the shelf will be far better off than those that are blindsided. The task for national and regional leaders, then, is to develop a set of contingency plans for possible climate shocks -- what we might call, collectively, Plan Z.
Some work of this kind is under way at intelligence agencies and research institutions in the United States and Europe. Harvard's Kennedy School of Government has produced one of the best studies, ''Responding to Threat of Climate Change Mega-Catastrophes.'' But for the most part these initiatives are preliminary and uncoordinated.
We need a much more deliberate Plan Z, with detailed scenarios of plausible climate shocks; close analyses of options for emergency response by governments, corporations and nongovernmental groups; and clear specifics about what resources -- financial, technological and organizational -- we will need to cope with different types of crises.
In the most likely scenarios, climate change would cause some kind of regional or continental disruption, like a major crop failure; this disruption would cascade through the world's tightly connected economic and political systems to produce a global effect. Severe floods dislocating millions of people in a key poor country -- as we're seeing right now in Pakistan -- could allow radicals to seize power and tip a geopolitically vital region into war. Or drought could cause an economically critical region like the North China plain to exhaust its water reserves, forcing people to leave en masse and precipitating a crisis that reverberates through the world economy.
A climate shock in North America is easy to imagine. Say a prolonged drought causes major cities in the American Southeast or Southwest to run out of water; both regions have large urban populations pushing against upper limits of water supply. The news clips of cars streaming out of Atlanta or Phoenix might finally push our leaders to do something serious about climate change.
If so, a Plan Z for this particular scenario would help us make the most of the opportunity. It would provide guidelines for regional and local leaders on how to respond to the crisis. We would decide in advance where supplies of water would be found and who would get priority allocations; local law enforcement and emergency responders would already have worked out lines of authority with federal agencies and the military.
Then there are the broader steps to mitigate climate change in general. Here, Plan Z would address many critical questions: How fast could carbon emissions from automobiles and energy production be ramped down, and what would be the economic, political and social consequences of different rates of reduction? Where would we find the vast amounts of money needed to overhaul existing energy systems? How quickly could different economic sectors and social groups adapt to different kinds of climate impacts? And if geoengineering to alter earth's climate -- for example, injecting sulfates into the high atmosphere -- is to be an option, who would make the decision and undertake the operation?
Looking over the endless, empty horizon of the Arctic, I find it hard to imagine this spot being of any importance to global affairs. But it is just one of many places now considered marginal that could be the starting point for a climate shock that plays a central role in the evolution of human civilization. We need to be ready.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JONATHAN TWINGLEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); WEATHER (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (67%); APPROVALS (66%); EMERGING MARKETS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US COAST GUARD (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%); BERING SEA (79%); EARTH (79%) ARCTIC (97%); CANADA (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREENLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



557 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DRILLING DOWN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Broadband Access Up in Black Homes

BYLINE: By TEDDY WAYNE

 BODY:
While broadband adoption for Americans finally slowed over all last year after double-digit growth each of the previous five years, with two-thirds now connected, usage among African-Americans jumped 22 percent this year over 2009, according to a Pew report. 
In every major category, from job opportunities to acquiring health information, more African-American and Hispanic adults regard lack of broadband access as ''a major disadvantage'' than whites do. Nearly half of African-Americans believe expanding broadband access should be a top government priority, compared with just under two-fifths of whites.
The average broadband user pays $41.18 monthly for service. About one in five adults never use the Internet, with roughly half of nonusers citing its irrelevance to their lives. Three in five say they would need assistance to go online.
''Although the rise in home broadband usage among African-Americans seems surprising in light of the current recession,'' said Aaron Smith, senior research specialist at Pew, the fact that a greater percentage of African-Americans say lack of broadband access is a disadvantage. particularly for obtaining career information, ''speaks to a recognition within the African-American community that digital connectivity is essential, even -- and perhaps especially -- during hard economic times.'' TEDDY WAYNE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 19: Percentage point difference between white and black Americans with home broadband in 2009. 11: Percentage point difference in 2010. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (95%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (94%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



558 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Stock Swing Still Baffles, Ominously

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
It sounds like ''Wall Street'' meets ''The X-Files.''
The stock market mysteriously plunges 600 points -- and then, more mysteriously, recovers within minutes. Over the next few weeks, analysts at Nanex, an obscure data company in the suburbs of Chicago, examine trading charts from the day and are stunned to find some oddly compelling shapes and patterns in the data.
To the Nanex analysts, these are crop circles of the financial kind, containing clues to the mystery of what happened in the markets on May 6 and what might have caused the still-unexplained flash crash. 
The charts -- which are visual representations of bid prices, ask prices, order sizes and other trading activity -- are inspiring many theories on Wall Street, some of them based on hard-nosed financial analysis and others of the black-helicopter variety.
To some people, like Eric Scott Hunsader, the founder of Nanex, they suggest that the specialized computers responsible for so much of today's stock trading simply overloaded the exchanges.
He and others are tempted to go further, hypothesizing that the bizarre patterns might have been the result of a Wall Street version of cyberwarfare. They say high-speed traders could have been trying to outwit one another's computers with blizzards of buy and sell orders that were never meant to be filled. These superfast traders might even have been trying to clog exchanges to outflank other investors.
Jeffrey Donovan, a Nanex developer, first noticed the apparent anomalies. ''Something is not right,'' he said as he reviewed the charts.
Mr. Donovan, a man with a runaway chuckle who works alone out of the company's office in Santa Barbara, Calif., poses a theory that a small group of high-frequency traders was trying to introduce delays into the nation's fractured stock-market trading system to profit at the expense of others. Clogging exchanges or otherwise disrupting markets to gain an advantage may be illegal.
Mr. Donovan indulges Wall Street's increasing fascination with the charts by christening more of them each day, with names like Continental Crust, Broken Highway and Twilight.
There is also the Bandsaw, a zigzag pattern of prices that appear and then abruptly vanish. There is the Knife, a sharp, narrowing price sequence. There is the Crystal Triangle, the Bar Code, the Mountain Range, each one stranger than the last.
The truth of what happened on May 6 could be hiding somewhere in those mysterious configurations. Or it may lie somewhere else entirely. But 15 weeks later, the authorities are still looking for it. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission plan to issue a final report on their findings in September.
A preliminary report in May blamed a confluence of factors, including worries over rising sovereign debt and a lack of marketwide circuit breakers, but the new report is expected to go further.
For now, this much is known: The markets were already down and on edge that morning as Europe's debt crisis seemed to be spiraling out of control.
As markets fell, a mutual fund manager in Kansas made a big sale of stock futures. The rout, some say, was worsened by a lack of coordination among the dozens of exchanges that make up the modern-day stock market. As the New York Stock Exchange slowed trading, rival exchanges that were more automated allowed the selling to continue.
''It's just madness to say we don't know what caused it. We do,'' said Steve Wunsch, a market structure consultant. ''The crash was an inevitable consequence of creating multiple market centers.''
That is one explanation. Others have pointed to the high-frequency traders, who use powerful computers to transmit millions of orders at lightning speed. Some of these traders, who now dominate the stock market, appear to have fled the market as prices went haywire.
Then their computer programs might have dragged down exchange-traded funds, popular investment vehicles that fell sharply during the crash, said Thomas Peterffy, chief executive of Interactive Brokers.
''Computerized arbitrage kicked in,'' he said.
But if Nanex's theory is to be believed, computer algorithms might have been at work as well, knowingly or unknowingly wreaking havoc and creating data crop circles.
''There is a credible allegation that there is seriously abusive practices going on,'' said James J. Angel, a financial market analyst specialist at Georgetown University, ''to the extent that somebody is firing in a very high frequency of orders for no good economic reason, basically because they are trying to slow everybody else down.''
At a Washington hearing on the flash crash last week, Kevin Cronin, director of global equity trading at Invesco, a big fund manager, warned about ''improper or manipulative activity'' in the stock market.
Traders at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto said they had also identified a ''data deluge'' a few minutes before the crash. They said people in the markets were poring over Nanex's colorful charts.
''Whether they are intentional or not, the regulators should be looking into it closely,'' said Doug Clark, managing director of BMO Capital Markets.
In an Aug. 5 letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Senator Edward E. Kaufman, Democrat of Delaware, warned about a ''micro-arms race that is being waged in our public marketplace by high-frequency traders and others.'' He said that the traders were moving so fast that regulators could not keep up.
The idea that shadowy computer masterminds were trying to disrupt the nation's stock trading struck many people as ridiculous. Wall Street experts generally characterize it as a conspiracy theory with little basis in fact.
But some of the patterns suggested that traders might have been testing their high-speed computers, perhaps to see how rivals would react.
Or it may just be that the computers produced so much data so quickly that exchanges simply could not cope with the onslaught.
''We live in a day when things are measured in milliseconds,'' said Sang Lee of the Aite Group, a financial services consulting company. ''It is meant to be a level playing field, but if you have better technology you will have the edge.''
Back in Chicago, Mr. Hunsader of Nanex is still not sure what his crop circles mean. But that does not stop him from admiring them.
''The patterns are quite beautiful,'' he said. ''We can't see any economic reasons for what they are doing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric Scott Hunsader founded Nanex, whose charts inspired theories on the May 6 market swing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (62%); MOUNTAINS (50%)

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (68%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



559 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: A Campaign Plays Up The Sporty Side Of a Honda Hybrid

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
GIVEN the sputtering economy, it is hard enough for a marketer to sell a familiar product, much less interest consumers in trying a new one. And if the new product is a durable good like a car, the challenge could be as formidable as getting a mad man like Don Draper to stop smoking or drinking.
Still, the wheels of commerce, and car marketing, continue to turn, as evidenced by the introduction planned for this week of the 2011 Honda CR-Z, a two-seat hybrid coupe, by the American Honda Motor Company, part of Honda Motor of Japan. The company is estimating sales of 15,000 CR-Zs in the first 12 months the car is on the market; prices start at $19,950. 
Although the economy is ''certainly better than last summer,'' it is ''still fundamentally ill,'' said Steven Center, vice president for advertising and public relations at American Honda in Torrance, Calif.
''How do you develop and launch new products in this environment?'' Mr. Center asked rhetorically, adding that American Honda had ''rethought everything'' since ''the world blew up in the fall of 2008'' to concentrate on ''cars that have better value and an increased focus in fuel economy.''
The CR-Z ''fits very nicely in the world going forward,'' Mr. Center said.
The CR-Z name is meant to evoke a popular Honda of the past, the CRX hatchback. And to further ground the new model in the realm of automotive options, a campaign soon to get under way positions the CR-Z as a hybrid sports car -- or, if you prefer, a sporty hybrid car.
The campaign, by RPA in Santa Monica, Calif., suggests to the primary target audience of men ages 25 to 35 that the CR-Z is ''everything a hybrid is. And isn't.'' The ads liken the car to fire and ice, described by an announcer in a commercial as ''complete opposites in complete harmony,'' or an eclipse, which demonstrates that ''on rare occasions, opposites can coexist.''
One commercial underscores the idea by using on the soundtrack a rocking version of ''Night and Day.''
The campaign may ring a bell with those who remember the ads that proclaimed Certs was ''two, two, two mints in one'' -- i.e., a breath mint and a candy mint -- or recall the campaign that declared Reese's Peanut Butter Cups offered ''two great tastes that taste great together.''
The CR-Z is portrayed as ''the best of both worlds,'' Mr. Center said, ''delivering on two consumer needs: it's sporty, and it's a hybrid.''
To many drivers, a hybrid ''at this point is pretty mundane,'' Mr. Center said, so the campaign will play up how much fun the CR-Z can be.
''I drove one to San Diego a couple weeks ago, and I was going 80 miles an hour and got 40 miles a gallon,'' he added. ''Your results may vary, as they say.''
The campaign is to be infused with innovative elements, intended to signal the innovative aspects of the CR-Z. For instance, there will be ads in 3-D on television; in movie theaters; in print, in Maxim magazine; online; and outdoors, in Times Square.
It is ''a little far down the road'' to suggest that 3-D is to advertising what hybrid technology is to cars, Mr. Center said, then paused. ''It's more than 2-D,'' he continued, referring to 3-D, ''and maybe the car is more than 2-D.''
The CR-Z will also take part in iPad applications for magazines like Entertainment Weekly and Wired; sponsor the first Online Video Awards to be presented by Vimeo.com; be part of a social game on Facebook called Car Town; appear on Hulu and YouTube; and be a sponsor of the 2010 Video Music Awards on MTV.
The goal is to ''make it stand out in a crowded marketplace,'' said Joe Baratelli, senior vice president and group creative director at RPA. ''There's so much noise, so many vehicles, and the economy.''
''One reason we thought 3-D was the right opportunity because it could get noticed,'' he added. The campaign represents the first commercials produced by RPA in 3-D.
''It's been fun to do and see the possibilities,'' Mr. Baratelli said, even if it was ''a lot more complicated'' than had initially been expected.
The CR-Z introduction follows the introduction of the Accord Crosstour, which made its debut during Super Bowl XLIV in February. American Honda has more to come, Mr. Center said, including a redesigned version of the Odyssey minivan, styling and power-train changes for the Accord and a new version of the Civic due next spring, as a 2012 model.
The hope, he added, is that the CR-Z will have a ''halo effect'' on the rest of the Honda lineup in a way that another hybrid, the Insight, brought back to the United States last year, has so far not.
''Insight was meant to be your first hybrid or your first car,'' Mr. Center said, ''and we launched it after all the kids got out of school and couldn't find work.''
American Honda intends to ''take some product actions'' to improve its sales performance, he added, declining to be specific.
Mr. Center was also not specific about the budget for the CR-Z campaign. He said it would be about the same as the ad budget for the Crosstour, which is expected to sell twice as many units as the CR-Z.
''In our vernacular, it's considered a big launch,'' he said of the CR-Z introduction.
During the first quarter, when the Crosstour introduction was in gear, American Honda spent $194.9 million on ads in major media, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP, up 30 percent from the $150 million spent in the same period a year ago.
By contrast, American Honda spent $620 million on ads in 2009, Kantar Media reported, down 25.4 percent from $831.3 million in 2008.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The RPA agency is promoting the Honda CR-Z hybrid coupe as a car that offers fuel savings, but also a bit of elan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW PRODUCTS (90%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (78%); MEN (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); SPORTS CARS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (53%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (93%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



560 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Now, the Rules

 BODY:
The new financial regulatory reform is supposed to curb the predatory lending practices that led to the collapse of the mortgage market and have put millions of Americans at risk of losing their homes. 
The Federal Reserve must now translate the legislative language into rules that will govern how brokers, lenders, appraisers and investors behave from now on. Given the Fed's long history of putting the financial industry first and consumer protection second, Congress will need to keep a close eye on the rule-making process.
It has become fashionable to blame profligate borrowers for the calamity. And there is no question that in the madness of the housing bubble, some people should never have sought mortgages or bought homes they clearly couldn't afford. But the crisis was driven by Wall Street's hunger for quick profits and its eagerness to buy mortgages and package them into securities. Banks, mortgage companies, brokers and appraisers all conspired to steer borrowers into loans with escalating interest rates, balloon payments and other conditions that made them highly prone to default.
The new law does not ban risky loans outright. It does establish several conditions that, if correctly implemented, should discourage lenders from issuing them.
Lenders must now take the common-sense precaution of documenting the borrower's ability to pay. They can no longer penalize borrowers -- eager to free themselves from subprime or other risky mortgages -- for paying off the loans early. And lenders are forbidden to pay kickbacks -- ''yield spread premiums'' -- to brokers who push borrowers into costly, higher-interest loans.
If loans violate the law, borrowers will be able to stop a foreclosure and sue to recover damages. The risk of being hauled into court should persuade investors to look closer at the underlying loans to make sure that they conform with federal law.
These are all good, and desperately needed, reforms. Industry lobbyists, who do some of their best work in the rule-making phase, will work hard to water them down.
Consumer advocates are especially worried about how the Fed will formulate the rules that are supposed to stop lenders from steering creditworthy minority or female applicants into more expensive mortgages and end ''wealth stripping,'' under which lenders design loans that quickly rob homeowners of their equity.
Congressional leaders believe that the Fed was chastened by the crisis and will now do all that is needed to protect lenders. Given the agency's long history of kowtowing to the banks, mortgage lenders and credit card companies, Congress will need to do more than trust. It will have to verify that the new rules finally give consumers -- and the American economy -- the strong, permanent protections they need.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PREDATORY LENDING (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); LOAN BROKERS (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); LOBBYING (72%); DAMAGES (69%); CREDIT CARDS (67%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



561 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; GAZA CITY JOURNAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Amid Colognes and Chips, Mall Seeks to Make Statement of Resolve

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

 BODY:
GAZA CITY -- Colognes by Hugo Boss, Dunhill and Givenchy line the shelves of the cosmetics shop. One of the two women's clothing stores features a window mannequin in a hot pink T-shirt and low-slung jeans. In the supermarket freezer is Nestle ice cream and on its shelves are salty and cheesy chips and doodles that well-off societies consume by the bagful.
Gaza, famous for its misery, has a shopping mall. It opened a month ago to considerable fanfare, with Palestinian television cameras trailing Hamas government officials meandering proudly around the bright new stores filled with imported goods. 
For Hamas, and for the Hamas-linked group of local investors behind the enterprise, the two-story mall, with its central air-conditioning and underground parking, has deep symbolic value. It is proof, they say, that despite the Israeli and Egyptian effort to isolate this Palestinian coastal strip, it can develop and thrive. Let the message go out: We will not be defeated.
But symbols are a risky business, and Israel's fiercest defenders have seized upon the mall for their own purposes as well. Wielding glossy photographs of the new shops, they ask: Is this the land of deprivation that you have heard about? How did they build a mall if no building materials are permitted into Gaza? How badly off can a place be that has just opened up a luxury mall? Those aid flotillas are sailing to the wrong place, they say.
The owners of the 10-shop complex here chose the name Gaza Mall in hopes of evoking the colossal consumer complexes across the developed world. Such places stretch endlessly with brand names and multiscreen cinemas, their floors linked by escalators surrounded by two-story fountains, the variety of edibles in their food courts matched only by the seductive mix of big-box stores and boutiques.
The Gaza Mall may seek to evoke such places, but it is not one of them. At 1,000 square meters, or a quarter of an acre, it is the size of a suburban residential lot in the United States and would fit in its entirety into a corner of any J. C. Penney. The stairs do not move. The piped-in music is Islamic. There are no appliances or electronics for sale, no movie screens, and exactly one fried-food restaurant. Its first floor is almost entirely taken up by a supermarket, a rarity in Gaza.
''We are about the size of one medium American store,'' Salahadin Abu Abdu, the mall's manager, acknowledged a bit sheepishly.
To the commentators who have never been here, certain points need to be cleared up. To those who contend the mall is proof that Gaza has construction materials: the building is 20 years old. To those who have described the mall as ''gigantic'' and ''futuristic'': it is small and a bit old-fashioned. To Danny Ayalon, Israel's deputy foreign minister, who wrote that the mall ''would not look out of place in any capital in Europe'': it would.
But the broader point many of these advocates are making -- that the poverty of Gaza is often misconstrued, willfully or inadvertently -- is correct. The despair here is not that of Haiti or Somalia. It is a misery of dependence, immobility and hopelessness, not of grinding want. The flotilla movement is not about material aid; it is about Palestinian freedom and defiance of Israeli power.
''Gaza is not poor in the way outsiders think,'' said Nida Wishah, a 22-year-old information technology student who was at the mall one recent afternoon. ''You can't compare our poverty with that of Africa.''
Modest though it is, the mall is a pleasant and cheerful complex, especially for Gaza. Tens of thousands of people have been passing through it, enjoying the air-conditioning, the window shopping and the recent arrival of many Israeli brands. Israel had kept those products out of Gaza for three years to pressure Hamas, the Islamist rulers here who reject Israel's existence.
But a few months ago, when a six-boat flotilla challenged the blockade, Israeli commandos stopped it and, meeting resistance, killed nine people aboard one of the ships, causing international outrage and a shift in policy. In recent weeks, many more Israeli goods were available, though the economy remains in shackles and only a thin slice of the population can afford to buy the fancier items.
''This is for the elite,'' Mr. Abu Abdu said. ''The money you see here belongs to a very few people.''
Still, it is slightly bewildering to see in the new supermarket large tubs of Israeli hummus and jars of Israeli honey. Hummus is available on every other corner of Gaza, which has also long been famous for its honey.
A supermarket manager explains: the Israeli products contain preservatives and can last during the frequent electrical failures. He spoke under a dangling cardboard ad for Pringles.
As to the Gazans themselves, even those who can ill afford to buy here take a certain pride in it.
''It feels civilized here,'' said Othman Turkman, 26, who works in conflict resolution and was comparison shopping. ''It's not for everyone, of course. Many in Gaza are poor and can't enjoy the mall. But they have kept the prices the same as in other shops, which is good.''
Inas al-Hayak, who was working behind the counter at the women's clothing shop, reading the Koran as Muslims do during the holy month of Ramadan, said she considered the mall ''a source of honor for Gaza.'' Dressed in Muslim modesty in a shop with a more risque look, she added: ''By opening the mall, we broke the siege. And we will keep challenging Israel in other ways. We are a strong people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Gaza Mall, a 10-shop complex, opened a month ago and has provided ammunition to Israel's fiercest defenders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TARA TODRAS-WHITEHILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (78%); COSMETICS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (77%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); HVAC SYSTEMS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); SUBURBS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (91%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



562 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE SOFA WARS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: In the Living Room, Hooked on Pay TV

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL and BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
It is a fantasy shared by many Americans: dropping cable television and its fat monthly bills and turning instead to the wide-open frontier of Internet video.
Some are finding that the reality is not that simple.
Just ask Bill Mitchell, a 40-year-old engineer in Winston-Salem, N.C. He canceled his Time Warner cable service and connected his flat-panel television to the Internet to watch sitcoms and his other favorite shows, using products from Apple and Boxee.
His experiment lasted 12 months. Recently, grudgingly, he returned to his $130-a-month cable subscription, partly because his family wanted programming that was not available online.
''The problem is, we're hooked on shows on HBO and Showtime, like 'True Blood' and 'Dexter,' '' he said, adding that he wishes he could buy only the shows he wants instead of big bundles of channels he doesn't. ''It's so frustrating.'' 
These are confusing times in the living room. The proliferation of Internet video has led to much talk of ''cord-cutting'' -- a term that has come to mean canceling traditional pay TV and replacing it with programming from a grab bag of online sources.
But so far Americans are not doing this in any meaningful numbers. ''Nor is there any evidence of it emerging in the near future,'' said Bruce Leichtman, the president of Leichtman Research Group, which studies consumer media habits.
This is all the more remarkable, industry analysts say, because it seems to defy the way the Internet has disrupted and challenged virtually every other major form of media -- from music to newspapers to books.
In part that is because the television business took action to avoid the same fate. Heavyweight distributors and producers have protected their business models by ensuring that some must-see shows and live sporting events cannot legally be seen online.
Technology companies are pushing alternatives like Web-connected set-top boxes. But these are still not as easy as signing up for cable or satellite service, particularly for those who want to watch on a big flat-screen TV and not a computer.
And so, in the battle for the living room, 2010 seems to be the year that the incumbent is strengthening its foothold.
A New York Times/CBS News poll this month found that 88 percent of respondents paid for traditional TV service. Just 15 percent of those subscribers had considered replacing it with Internet video services like Hulu and YouTube.
Younger people, though, are more intrigued by the possibility: respondents under the age of 45 were significantly more likely than older ones to say they had considered replacing their pay TV service. The poll was conducted Aug. 3-5 with 847 respondents and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Even through the downturn, the number of people subscribing to pay TV continued to grow. Cable, satellite and fiber-optic providers added 677,000 customers in the first quarter of this year, according to the investment firm Sanford C. Bernstein.
The firm's preliminary numbers for the second quarter, which is traditionally weak, show a slight drop in subscribers. Satellite providers and Verizon's FiOS service have been stealing market share from cable.
The cable and satellite companies say that their customers are reluctant to pay more -- the Comcast chief executive, Brian L. Roberts, described customers who paid only for video, without a bundle of other services, as ''very price-sensitive'' -- but insist that cord-cutting has not been an especially disruptive trend.
To keep customers, especially the price-sensitive ones, the carriers are getting creative. They are trying to bring the living-room experience to every other screen in a customer's home, including laptops and tablets. Last week Verizon became the latest carrier to announce plans for an app that puts live TV on the iPad, pushing out the walls of cable TV's walled garden a bit.
Cablevision, in the New York City area, is running similar trials for tablets and smartphones, Tom Rutledge, the chief operating officer, said in an earnings call this month. ''Our vision is that we will provide our full service, everything we offer in the home,'' Mr. Rutledge said, ''on any device that can display TV or act as a TV in the home.''
Craig Moffett, a cable industry analyst at Bernstein, says the fortunes of pay TV companies are nevertheless destined to flag, given customers' dissatisfaction with prices, as well as the persistent efforts by technology companies to come up with alternatives.
Entrepreneurs will ''keep storming the castle until somebody figures it out,'' Mr. Moffett wrote in a recent note to investors. But he also called cord-cutting ''perhaps the most overhyped and overanticipated phenomenon in tech history.''
Plenty of people say they have foresworn cable for good. They are largely young adults who know their way around the Internet and have grown accustomed to watching video on computers and other devices.
The Times/CBS News survey found that people under the age of 45 were about four times as likely as those 45 and over to say Internet video services could effectively replace cable.
''I pay for the Internet; why would I pay for cable?'' said Breck Yunits, 26, who lives in the Mission neighborhood in San Francisco in a house he shares with four roommates. They regularly gather at night around the dinner table and use his Hewlett-Packard laptop to watch ''The Office,'' ''Arrested Development'' and other shows on sites like Hulu, NBC.com and MTV.com.
The roommates split a $40 Internet bill, and one roommate pays around $10 a month for a Netflix subscription. In the past they have also grabbed illegal copies of movies using BitTorrent, a file-sharing system. Mr. Yunits, a freelance computer programmer, said his girlfriend liked some of what was legally available only on pay TV, so he might eventually ''be a candidate for it.''
''Personally I would never get cable because the shows online have gotten so good,'' he said. ''You get to watch what you want to watch, when you want to watch it.''
But people like Mr. Yunits are still few and far between, in part because it is simply too hard for most people to cobble together an alternative to pay TV's offerings.
Take Hulu, which attracts tens of millions of users a month. People can watch most broadcast shows on Hulu, but few cable shows, because they are carefully protected by media companies that rely on subscriber revenue. ''American Idol,'' the biggest entertainment show in the country, cannot legally be watched online at all.
Meanwhile there has not been much traction for a host of services like Boxee, which aim to connect televisions to the Internet and help people find things to watch. There is, though, interest in the possibilities: a global survey by Nielsen published this month found that one in five people was eager to buy a Net-connected TV in the next year.
Another alternative comes from video game consoles, like the Xbox 360 from Microsoft, the Nintendo Wii and the Sony PlayStation 3. They are in millions of living rooms and are adding video programming, like Netflix's streaming service. But to date, research shows, they are not undermining cable or satellite -- merely complementing it with pay-per-view TV episodes and some movie streams.
Instead of cord-cutting, Mr. Leichtman said there was a greater potential for what he called cord-slicing, cutting back on one part of the monthly cable bill, like pay-per-view movies, while keeping the basic service.
Any relief would be welcome to John Akerson, 46, a friend of Mr. Mitchell's in Winston-Salem, who pays $100 a month to Time Warner Cable so he and his wife, Jen, can spend two to three hours a night watching ESPN highlights, ''The Real Housewives of Atlanta'' and local newscasts.
Because of the cost and periodic service glitches, he says that he has ''a deep resentment bordering on hate'' for the cable company. But other options have not worked out, even though Mr. Mitchell gave him a tutorial on using an Apple TV device.
Mr. Akerson finds it almost laughable that he and his wife have not been able to figure out an alternative, given that both of them are technically adept.
''I guess it comes down to laziness on my part,'' he said of his failure to find an alternative to Time Warner Cable. That and, if he switches, ''I'm definitely not going to be able to get 'True Blood.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Mitchell of North Carolina, with his son Brandon, cut the cable cord. Then he reattached it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELL REDMOND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 CHART: No Shortage of Demand: The growth in subscribers paying for television has remained relatively steady, even through the recession, although preliminary figures for the second quarter this year showed a slight decrease. (Source: Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET VIDEO (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (78%); BROADBAND (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%)

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CABLE INC (57%)

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (88%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



563 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Your Home as Sure Nest Egg? That Era Is Over, Analysts Say

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
Housing will eventually recover from its great swoon. But many real estate experts now believe that home ownership will never again yield rewards like those enjoyed in the second half of the 20th century, when houses not only provided shelter but also a plump nest egg.
The wealth generated by housing in those decades, particularly on the coasts, did more than assure the owners a comfortable retirement. It powered the economy, paying for the education of children and grandchildren, keeping the cruise ships and golf courses full and the restaurants humming.
More than likely, that era is gone for good.
''There is no iron law that real estate must appreciate,'' said Stan Humphries, chief economist for the real estate site Zillow. ''All those theories advanced during the boom about why housing is special -- that more people are choosing to spend more on housing, that more people are moving to the coasts, that we were running out of usable land -- didn't hold up.'' 
Instead, Mr. Humphries and other economists say, housing values will only keep up with inflation. A home will return the money an owner puts in each month, but will not multiply the investment.
Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, estimates that it will take 20 years to recoup the $6 trillion of housing wealth that has been lost since 2005. After adjusting for inflation, values will never catch up.
''People shouldn't look at a home as a way to make money because it won't,'' Mr. Baker said.
If the long term is grim, the short term is grimmer. Housing experts are bracing themselves for Tuesday, when the sales figures for July will be released. The data is expected to show a drop of as much as 20 percent from last year.
The supply of homes sitting on the market might rise to as much as 12 months, about twice the level of a healthy market. That would push down prices as all those sellers compete to secure a buyer, adding to a slide that has already chopped off as much as 30 percent in home values.
Set against this dismal present and a bleak future, buying a home is a willful act of optimism. That explains why Adam and Allison Lyons are waiting to close on a $417,500 house in Deerfield, Ill.
''We're trying not to think too far ahead,'' said Ms. Lyons, 35, an information technology manager.
The couple's first venture into real estate came in 2003 when they bought a condo in a 17-unit building under construction in Chicago. By the time they moved in two years later, it was already worth $50,000 more than they had paid. ''We were thinking, great!'' said Mr. Lyons, 34.
That quick appreciation started them on the same track as their parents, who watched the value of their houses ascend for decades. The real estate crash interrupted that pleasant dream. The couple cannot sell their condo. Unwillingly, they are becoming landlords.
''I don't think we're ever going to see the prosperity our parents did, but I don't think it's all doom and gloom either,'' said Mr. Lyons, a manager at I.B.M. ''At some point, you just have to say what the heck and go for it.''
Other buyers have grand and even grander expectations.
In an annual survey conducted by the economists Robert J. Shiller and Karl E. Case, hundreds of new owners in four communities -- Alameda County near San Francisco, Boston, Orange County south of Los Angeles, and Milwaukee -- once again said they believed prices would rise about 10 percent a year for the next decade.
With minor swings in sentiment, the latest results reflect what new buyers always seem to feel. At the boom's peak in 2005, they said prices would go up. When the market was sliding in 2008, they still said prices would go up.
''People think it's a law of nature,'' said Mr. Shiller, who teaches at Yale.
For the first half of the 20th century, he said, expectations followed the opposite path. Houses were seen the way cars are now: as a consumer durable that the buyer eventually used up.
The notion of housing as an investment first began to blossom after World War II, when the nesting urges of returning soldiers created a construction boom. Demand was stoked as their bumper crop of children grew up and bought places of their own. The inflation of the 1970s, which increased the value of hard assets, and liberal tax policies both helped make housing a good bet. So did the long decline in mortgage rates from the early 1980s.
Despite all these tailwinds, prices rose modestly for much of the period. Real home prices increased 1.1 percent a year after inflation, according to Mr. Shiller's research.
By the late 1990s, however, the rate was 4 percent a year. Happy homeowners were taking about $100 billion a year out of their houses, which paid for a lot of good times.
''The experience we had from the late 1970s to the late 1990s was an aberration,'' said Barry Ritholtz of the equity research firm Fusion IQ. ''People shouldn't be holding their breath waiting for it to happen again.''
Not everyone views the notion of real appreciation in real estate as a lost cause.
Bob Walters, chief economist of the online mortgage firm Quicken, acknowledges that the recent collapse will create a ''mind scar'' just as the Great Depression did. But he argues that housing remains unique.
''You have to live somewhere,'' he said. ''In three or four years, people will resume a normal course, and home values will continue to increase.''
All homes are different, and some neighborhoods and regions will rebound more quickly. On the other hand, areas where there was intense overbuilding, like Arizona, will be extremely slow to show any sign of renewal.
''It's entirely likely that markets like Arizona will not recover even in the 15- to 20-year time frame,'' said Mr. Humphries of Zillow. ''The demand doesn't exist.''
Owners in those foreclosure-plagued areas consider themselves lucky if they are still solvent. But that does not prevent the occasional regret that a life-changing sum of money was so briefly within their grasp.
Robert Austin, a Phoenix lawyer, paid $200,000 for his home in 2000. Five years later, his neighbors listed a similar home for $500,000.
Freedom beckoned. ''I thought, when my daughter gets out of school, I can sell the house and buy a boat and sail around the world,'' said Mr. Austin, 56.
His home is now worth about what he paid for it. As for that cruise, ''it may be a while,'' Mr. Austin said. Showing the hopefulness that is apparently innate to homeowners, he added: ''But I won't rule it out forever.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adam and Allison Lyons plan to rent their condo in Chicago until the housing market recovers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); CONSTRUCTION (79%); CONDOMINIUMS (79%); SALES FIGURES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); GOLF (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%)

COMPANY: BAKER CO INC (67%); ZILLOW INC (58%)

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (67%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



564 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Lazio Finds an Issue in Furor Over Islamic Center

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
At an office complex in the faded industrial town of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., recently, Rick A. Lazio, the former congressman from Long Island who is running for governor, had taken a series of standard jabs against political dysfunction in Albany and sky-high tax rates when he suddenly seemed to gain true traction with the crowd.
The issue was not the economy, or even his rival; it was the planned Muslim community center and mosque in Lower Manhattan. ''We do not believe in turning our back on the victims of 9/11,'' he said to enthusiastic applause. As the Republican primary for the governor's race approaches, Mr. Lazio is making his vigorous opposition to the project a centerpiece of his candidacy, assailing it on the campaign trail, testifying against it at public hearings, denouncing it in television commercials and even creating an online petition demanding an investigation into the center and its organizers. ''Defend New York,'' says the giant headline above the petition on his Web site.
As a dominant New York voice against the center, Mr. Lazio has attracted a burst of public attention to a campaign that had failed to gather much momentum, overshadowed by the money and muscle of his Democratic rival, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo. 
The occasional voter has now taken to stopping Mr. Lazio in the street to urge him on, and any number of others have stocked his campaign's Web site with letters of support made public by Mr. Lazio's aides. ''Rick's got my vote,'' wrote one New Yorker, after seeing Mr. Lazio's latest commercial about the center.
Mr. Lazio's relentless opposition to the project -- he again attacked the imam behind it during an appearance Sunday on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' -- is, above all, aimed at Republican primary voters, analysts say. But it risks alienating moderates who could prove crucial in a general election. And it certainly is infuriating many Muslim leaders, who say he is preying on the worst fears of voters; and provoking a backlash from some influential voices in the community of Sept. 11 emergency workers, who say he is exploiting the tragedy.
Nevertheless, Mr. Lazio is pushing ahead with the strategy, even breaking what has been, until now, something of an unwritten rule of politics in New York: never to use images of Sept. 11 in campaign advertisements.
Last week, Mr. Lazio released a Web advertisement critical of the mosque featuring rescue workers on Sept. 11 and a television commercial in which he appears before photos of a still-smoldering World Trade Center, questioning where the money for the planned Muslim center will come from, and declaring that Mr. Cuomo, who has defended the rights of the project's organizers, ''is very, very wrong.''
In an interview, Mr. Lazio defended his focus on the Muslim center, saying that for many New Yorkers, the memory of Sept. 11 remained raw, and that, for them, proposing a 13-story Muslim center blocks from ground zero was insensitive and even offensive.
''A lot of us have moved ahead since 2001, but for other people the memories are very vivid and very real,'' he said. ''And there is an incredible emotional connection to the people who had this experience: husbands, wives, children, parents, victims, all of whom were victims.''
''When they approach me,'' he said, ''I do feel that I have a responsibility here to raise this issue effectively and get some answers.''
Unions representing the city's firefighters and police officers immediately demanded that Mr. Lazio pull his most recent ad, calling it an affront. Ed Mullins, the head of the city's police sergeants' union, called the ads ''as irresponsible as they are reprehensible.''
Muslim groups, for their part, have vigorously objected to Mr. Lazio's characterizations of the imam behind the center, Feisal Abdul Rauf, whom he calls a ''terrorist sympathizer.''
Ghazi Y. Khankan, the former director of the New York Chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said that Mr. Lazio ''should be ashamed of himself for doing these dirty tactics.''
''My God,'' he added. ''How low can you go?''
Some political analysts and consultants say Mr. Lazio's critique of the planned project is designed in significant part to ward off an unexpectedly spirited challenger in Carl Paladino, a wealthy upstate conservative who has spoken out against the project in even blunter language than Mr. Lazio.
In his own commercial, Mr. Paladino vowed that, if elected, he would use the government's power of eminent domain to force the center's developers to find a different location.
Yet like any controversy that burns with emotion -- fanned by cable television, news media and talk radio -- it could flame out, losing the interest of voters who are fretting over pocketbook concerns.
''I don't think it's a ticket to Albany in November,'' said Lee M. Miringoff, the director of the Marist Institute for Public Opinion, which has surveyed New York voters on the topic.
But for Mr. Lazio, who is woefully underfinanced compared with Mr. Cuomo -- he has some $600,000 to Mr. Cuomo's $23 million -- it is a way to distinguish himself on a divisive issue.
''It's a double-edged sword here,'' said Michael Long, the chairman of the state's Conservative Party, which has sponsored some of Mr. Lazio's most controversial commercials on the Muslim center. ''There will be people who will be more adamantly against him because of it. But there are a whole host of people who did not know about Rick Lazio who now do, and think favorably of him.''
On Sunday, as a guest on ''Meet The Press,'' Mr. Lazio hammered the project's spiritual leader, Mr. Abdul Rauf. ''There are millions of peace-loving good Muslims in America,'' he said. ''This imam, Rauf, is not one of them.''
Mr. Lazio's criticism of the project has also included direct shots at Mr. Cuomo, who, he says, has failed to investigate the financing behind the planned $100 million center, which is to house a mosque, a restaurant, a pool and other features. ''I don't know why he is not more curious about where the money is coming from,'' Mr. Lazio said on the program. ''He is the state's chief law enforcement officer.''
Mr. Cuomo would not comment for this article, but aides said that, because the developers had raised so little money, there was nothing to investigate: the most recent government filings show the organization has about $18,000. The aides added that if Mr. Lazio was serious about uncovering terrorism-related financing, he would make similar requests to the New York Police Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
This is not the first time that Mr. Lazio has thrust Islam into a political campaign. In his 2000 bid for the United States Senate, Mr. Lazio attacked his Democratic opponent, Hillary Rodham Clinton, for raising money from a Muslim group, some of whose members had defended the radical Islamic group Hamas.
Mrs. Clinton eventually returned the donations. But in the waning days of the campaign, Mr. Lazio's supporters in the State Republican Party made a telephone calls to voters that linked Mrs. Clinton's donors to the terrorism attack on an American warship in Yemen, angering many voters, who considered the tactic over the top.
Mr. Lazio said there was no connection between his campaigns in 2000 and in 2010. And he dismissed the claim that he had exploited post-Sept. 11 anxieties about Islam and terrorism. ''Two-thirds of New Yorkers don't think we should move forward with it,'' he said of the proposed center. ''Two-thirds of New Yorkers are not religious bigots. They are people who overwhelmingly believe in religious freedom and pluralism and diversity.''
But Muslim leaders question Mr. Lazio's sincerity: Several wondered why, if he had questions about the center's financing, or the religious leader who is to oversee it, he had not spoken with either the developer or the imam. At the final Landmarks Preservation Commission hearing on the project, its developer, Sharif el-Gamal, tried to introduce himself to Mr. Lazio.
He said he was rebuffed. ''He just looked at me and walked by,'' Mr. Gamal recalled.
Mr. Lazio said no slight was intended. ''I have never met the man,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Opponents of an Islamic center planned two blocks from ground zero rallied at West Broadway and Park Place on Sunday, near the proposed site. About 500 gathered to protest the plan.
 Supporters held a counterprotest. There were taunts, tension and minor scuffles, but no arrests or injuries were reported. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); RELIGION (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); PETITIONS (74%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



565 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Investors May Like Hollywood Again

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GOLDFARB and ANTONY CURRIE

 BODY:
Hollywood is regaining its star power as an investment. During the boom years of 2004-7, hedge fund managers, private equity barons and bankers invested $15 billion in movies, only to leave mostly scarred for the experience. Their departure has left studio executives lacking for financing, and potentially shifted the industry's dynamics in a way to make an investment worth considering.
Wall Street investors were not the first to get star-struck. Fund managers trying to lock in management fees followed earlier generations of Germans seeking tax shelters and Japanese trying to extract profits by uniting movies with electronics. All the hype -- along with a string of expensive duds, a steep downturn in DVD sales and skewed economics -- led to yet another expensive lesson for well-heeled Hollywood interlopers. 
These days, negotiations may favor those willing to write a check. Studios skim a generous fee for distributing movies before any investor gets paid. This cut had risen to 15 percent of a film's revenue. But parent companies like Time Warner need new content to build libraries and feed multiple distribution outlets, so they could be more apt to accept a fee closer to 10 percent and focus instead on other strategic corporate returns derived from the films.
A-list stars are also being squeezed. Handsome 20-20 packages -- $20 million in advance against 20 percent of a film's gross profit -- are harder to come by. Jim Carrey took an equity stake in ''Yes Man'' in exchange for surrendering his upfront pay. And Steve Carell accepted a deal to be paid part of the gross only after financing costs were recouped for ''Dinner for Schmucks.''
Less output could help investors' odds of making money. Studios are on pace to release a third fewer films this year than the peak 631 in 2007. That means lower film-print and advertising costs and less weekend competition at the multiplex.
Yet moviegoing has proved its recession resistance. At $7.2 billion through Aug. 19, according to Box Office Mojo, ticket sales in the United States are 10 percent higher than at this time in 2008.
Bankrolling blockbusters is not for the squeamish. But investors in film equity, who typically expect at least a 20 percent return, may find that their chances have improved for a Hollywood ending.
A Wave of Deals
Bankers may be only too happy to leave beaches behind for the surprisingly hot mergers and acquisitions market. Last week was the best in August since 2006, totaling $90 billion in deals. And at almost $200 billion so far, this month could end up beating the August high of $275 billion in 1999, according to Thomson Reuters. But the summer scorcher may not be a turning point for Wall Street's rainmakers.
Even the busiest of Augusts do not stack up against the rest of the year: the 1999 showing is barely more than half the biggest month ever, the $524 billion in deals announced in May 2007, and is more than $100 billion away from even cracking the top 10.
All the cash stored up on corporate balance sheets holds the promise of altering the arid deal landscape. The 1,000 largest companies are sitting on almost $3 trillion, and the hope is clearly that many will follow BHP Billiton's and Intel's lead by using a considerable portion of it for acquisitions. But the continuing economic uncertainty could just as easily persuade many corporate boards to hoard their cash.
What's more, previous August heat waves have presaged encroaching cold spells. August 2006, for example, marked the heyday of the leveraged buyout boom, with even Ford Motor a rumored target. But the market cooled off considerably a few months later. And the best August on record, in 1999, came just months before the dot-com bubble burst and a recession set in.
That does not necessarily mean history will repeat itself. But it should serve as a sufficient reminder to bankers that August heat can sometimes cause hallucinations.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The actor Jim Carrey took an equity stake in ''Yes Man'' instead of upfront money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MCCARTEN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVENUES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); MERGERS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); TICKET SALES (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PARENT COMPANIES (72%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (68%)

PERSON: JIM CARREY (59%); STEVE CARELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



566 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Canceled Brooklyn Concert Reinstated

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
The final Pool Party is back on.
Five days after abruptly canceling the last installment of the Pool Parties concert series at East River State Park in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, because the promoter of the shows had not paid its bills, the nonprofit group that helps administer the park has reinstated that show, which is set for next Sunday.
The Open Space Alliance for North Brooklyn said on Sunday morning that Jelly NYC, the promoter, had paid most of the money it owed for use of the park, and that two businesses adjacent to the park -- a small strip along the waterfront with striking views of Midtown Manhattan -- chipped in to make up the difference. Those donors were Norman and Elaine Brodsky, who are among the owners of CitiStorage; and Douglaston Development, which is building the Edge, a large luxury apartment building. 
''We are pleased that Jelly was able to meet most of its obligations,'' said Stephen Hindy, the alliance's chairman and the president of Brooklyn Brewery.
The decision to allow the final concert, which will feature Delorean and Dominique Young Unique along with headlining acts yet to be announced, is the latest twist in a combative story that has stretched over two summers and involved the unlikely but aggressive support of Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. Since the end of last summer, when the alliance told Jelly NYC that it would not renew its contract for 2010, citing safety and other concerns, Mr. Schumer has been the promoter's advocate in public and private.
He and his staff members have intervened in long and bitter renegotiations, and the senator has come to several of the shows, speaking from the stage and posing for pictures with fans. In a statement Senator Schumer said: ''I am glad both sides finally came together because these concerts mean so much to the neighborhood of Williamsburg and the people of Brooklyn. The ultimate beneficiary from these shows is the New York City economy because cultural magnets like this make young people from around the country want to live here.''
Senator Schumer's staff has been involved with the most recent round of talks since Tuesday. But the key to the change may have been the involvement of New York State Assemblyman Joseph R. Lentol, a Democrat whose district includes Williamsburg. He made a last-minute appeal to officials at the state Parks Department, who had the final say in approving the reinstatement of the last show.
The Pool Parties began in 2006 at the disused McCarren Park Pool in Williamsburg and were moved to East River State Park last summer when New York City began reconstruction of the pool. Jelly NYC -- a small marketing and promotion company in Brooklyn that puts on concerts and parties year round -- began to clash with city and state parks officials over safety regulations, sponsorship agreements and even the lyrics of bands booked for the shows. Officials from Jelly NYC did not respond to requests for comment for this article.
With the intervention of Senator Schumer the concerts returned this summer but have suffered from low attendance, and on Tuesday the Open Space Alliance, which works with city and state officials to oversee public parkland in Williamsburg and Greenpoint, announced that it was pulling the plug on the final show because Jelly NYC had defaulted on an unspecified debt. The concert scheduled for Sunday with the band Chromeo was not affected by that decision.
Whether Jelly NYC returns next summer is an open question. Despite the company's rocky relationship with the Open Space Alliance and with various state and city parks officials, it has earned powerful allies. But in Sunday's statement Adam D. Perlmutter, a board member for the alliance who has handled much of the day-to-day negotiations with Jelly NYC, suggested that much more varied programming would be in store other than the indie-rock and hip-hop that Jelly has presented.
''OSA looks forward to presenting diverse programming in the future,'' Mr. Perlmutter said, ''from Chromeo to Copland.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE PARKS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); APPROVALS (60%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



567 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: It's Called a Vacation. But for the Obamas, It's Not That Simple.

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
VINEYARD HAVEN, Mass. -- It is a paradox of American politics. The more common vacations became after World War II -- a tradition for the working class and the wealthy alike -- the more criticism presidents have faced for taking them.
So as President Obama and his family enjoy their second annual August vacation at an isolated farm on Martha's Vineyard, defensiveness is again part of the baggage. 
''Whenever you talk about a presidential vacation, you ought to put the word 'vacation' in quotes because you can bet that there will still be work that he's doing every day,'' Bill Burton, who came along as the ''vacation'' press secretary, told reporters before the Obamas' 10-day visit.
That is why the president's entourage of Secret Service agents, communications specialists and military aides includes John O. Brennan, Mr. Obama's top counterterrorism adviser, who wore a suit and tie on a sunny Friday here to take questions from more casually dressed reporters (''I don't do down time,'' he deadpanned). Mr. Brennan has been briefing the president daily on the latest intelligence and remains in touch with Washington when Mr. Obama spends five hours on the golf course, as he did Friday and Sunday.
''If there were to be some type of event that would require immediate engagement with the president,'' Mr. Brennan said, ''I am certain I can do it as quickly as I could do back in Washington.''
Yet for a modern president, far more than for average Americans, there never seems to be a good time to vacation.
Round-the-clock news coverage and the Internet have intensified attention on a president's every move, and blogging has multiplied the numbers, and the reach, of critics.
Through history, many presidents have stayed away from Washington for long periods with little notice. Abraham Lincoln, contending with a civil war, spent about a quarter of his presidency at a cottage outside the city. Franklin D. Roosevelt did not let a Depression or war keep him from fishing trips.
That changed after World War II, with the dawn of the television age. Dwight D. Eisenhower was lampooned for his frequent golfing, especially amid recession in 1958. Lyndon B. Johnson, Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush were mocked for retreating to their ranches often. Bill Clinton was ridiculed for hobnobbing with the rich and famous on Martha's Vineyard for seven of his eight summer vacations (the exception was the time he took a supposedly more plebeian sojourn out West on the advice of a political adviser).
As he was last August, Mr. Obama is especially vulnerable to the critics' rap about the timing of his leisure, coming amid two wars and continued high unemployment. Earlier this month, Michelle Obama drew criticism unusual for a first lady when she took a trip to Spain with her daughter Sasha.
The first family's visit here coincides with the official end of combat operations in Iraq. While unemployment is stuck at more than 9 percent, this time last summer it was heading upward toward a 10.2 percent peak in October. But such progress is far too small for the administration to claim much political credit as the midterm elections approach. Mr. Obama's job-approval rating has fallen below 50 percent and Democrats are in danger of losing control of Congress.
''I would say the difference between last year's vacation and this year's is that since his vacation, the automotive industry is back on its feet, health care reform has passed and the economy is now moving in a different direction than it was moving in before,'' Mr. Burton said.
While one woman gave Mr. Obama's motorcade a two-thumbs-down salute when he arrived Thursday, the reception has been welcoming on an island that gave him about three-quarters of its vote. Many Vineyarders -- in shops and restaurants, on the beach and at an agricultural fair -- were as defensive as administration aides about his visit here.
A big sign on a hotel dominating Main Street read:
Mansion House Inn Believes Anyone Who Has
Passed Health Care Reform
Signed Economic Stimulus Bills
Recast America's Global Image
Commands Two War Zones
Won the Nobel Peace Prize
Named 2 Supreme Court Judges
Overhauled Financial Regulations
DESERVES A GREAT VACATION!
Thank You Mr. President.
As with Mrs. Obama's visit to Spain, criticism of the Obamas' vacation focuses on the perceived extravagance when so many Americans are out of work. The Vacation White House is a renovated Victorian on Blue Heron Farm, a 28-acre expanse with a guesthouse, pool, basketball court, golf practice tee and beach access.
Purchased for more than $20 million by a wealthy Republican donor from Mississippi, the farm is said to rent for $35,000 to $50,000 a week -- an expense the Obamas are covering personally, the White House said.
Details about expensive vacation rentals were a nonissue for past presidents who owned easily secured getaways -- John F. Kennedy's Cape Cod compound; the Johnson Ranch; Mr. Reagan's Rancho del Cielo in California's Santa Ynez Mountains; the first President Bush's Kennebunkport spread on Maine's shore; and the second President Bush's ranch in Crawford, Tex.
For Mr. Obama, the criticism is as much about where he is vacationing as it is about the fact that he is vacationing. The critics, and some Democrats, have said that the president should have gone to the Gulf Coast for 10 days -- not just for an overnight visit, as the family recently did -- to make good on his own advice to go to the coast, unsullied in the wake of the BP oil spill.
The Republican National Committee, playing off the perception that Mr. Obama is always taking time off, called him ''the Clark Griswold president,'' for the hapless character played by Chevy Chase in the ''Vacation'' movies.
Counting the time here, Mr. Obama will have vacationed for 48 days as president, or nearly seven weeks, according to Mark Knoller, a longtime White House correspondent for CBS News who keeps records on the vacation days of presidents. At this point in his presidency, George W. Bush was midway through a 27-day stay at his Crawford ranch that would bring his time there to 115 days -- or more than 16 weeks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Taking no sides, a storefront on Martha's Vineyard featured the vice president, the president, Sarah Palin and Michelle Obama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CJ GUNTHER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (89%); POLITICS (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); NEWS REPORTING (74%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); COUNTERTERRORISM (67%); GOLF (65%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); TERRORISM (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



568 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Tighter Medical Privacy Rules Sought

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration is rewriting new rules on medical privacy after an outpouring of criticism from consumer groups and members of Congress who say the rules do not adequately protect the rights of patients.
Democratic lawmakers and a few Republicans have denounced the rules, saying they fall short of offering patients the fullest protections possible. Hospitals and insurance companies, seeking to maintain greater control over patient notification, generally support the rules. The White House finds itself caught in the middle.
The rules specify when doctors, hospitals and insurers must tell patients about the improper use or disclosure of information in their medical records. Such breaches appear to have become more frequent, with the growing use of health information technology, social media and the Internet. 
Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, issued temporary rules, with the force of law, in August last year. After analyzing comments from the public, she developed final rules and submitted them to the White House Office of Management and Budget for approval in May.
At the urging of the White House, Ms. Sebelius recently withdrew the rules to allow for further consideration.
''We decided to pull it back,'' said Georgina C. Verdugo, director of the Office for Civil Rights at the Department of Health and Human Services. ''We had second thoughts. We hope to issue a final regulation this fall.''
The Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a watchdog group, estimates that more than five million people have been affected by breaches of medical information in the last 18 months.
Causes include the theft of laptop computers, the loss of paper records, the posting of data on Web sites and the curiosity of hospital employees snooping for information on sports stars and other celebrities.
Congress increased privacy safeguards when it provided tens of billions of dollars to promote the use of electronic health records under the economic recovery bill signed by President Obama in February 2009.
In writing the temporary rules, Ms. Sebelius closely followed the text of the law except in one important respect: Health care providers and health insurance plans would have to notify patients of a privacy breach only if they found that the violation posed ''a significant risk of financial, reputational or other harm to the individual.''
''No notification is required'' if a hospital or an insurer believes, after a risk assessment, that the patient will not be harmed, the rules said.
Deven McGraw, director of the Health Privacy Project at the Center for Democracy and Technology, a civil liberties group, said the standard proposed by the administration was severely flawed.
''Harm is in the eye of the beholder,'' Ms. McGraw said. ''How does a hospital or an insurance company know whether an improper disclosure will harm an employee's chances for promotion or endanger a victim of domestic abuse?''
Defending its proposal, the Department of Health and Human Services had said that some kind of ''harm threshold'' was essential. Otherwise, it said, consumers might be flooded with notices warning about innocuous or insignificant violations of privacy.
Some senior members of Congress said they had explicitly considered and rejected a standard like the one adopted by Ms. Sebelius. ''This is not consistent with Congressional intent,'' they said in a letter to her.
The letter was signed by six lawmakers including Representatives Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California and chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee; Joe L. Barton of Texas, the senior Republican on the committee; and Pete Stark, Democrat of California and chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health.
Beth Givens, director of the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, said hospitals and insurers were often reluctant to notify patients. ''Few things could be more damaging to an institution's reputation than having to admit that it has lost or somehow allowed others to intrude into its patients' private medical data,'' she said.
In July, Colorado notified 110,000 Medicaid recipients that information about them was on a computer hard drive taken ''without permission'' from a state government office. The data indicated whether, for example, women were receiving prenatal care or treatment for breast or cervical cancer.
In the last nine months, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Tennessee has notified nearly one million people that their privacy could be compromised by the theft of 57 computer hard drives from a call center in Chattanooga. The hard drives included recordings of telephone calls, Social Security numbers and diagnostic information about some subscribers.
In Massachusetts, four hospitals acknowledged this month that paper records for thousands of their patients had been improperly thrown out at a public dump north of Boston. The records included results of tests performed by pathologists and clinical laboratories.
''We were shocked and outraged,'' said Nancy A. Coley, a spokeswoman for one of the hospitals, Holyoke Medical Center. ''We wondered how our records could be out in the Boston area 90 miles away. We found that the records came from a billing agency used by a group of pathologists who did work for the hospital.''
In California, Ralph E. Montano, a spokesman for the State Department of Public Health, said officials had substantiated 2,093 violations of medical privacy in the last 20 months, including 26 ''malicious breaches.''
The department has imposed $1.1 million in fines on six hospitals and is still investigating hundreds of cases, Mr. Montano said.
Courtney Berlin, a spokeswoman for Tri-City Medical Center in Oceanside, Calif., said several hospital employees were recently disciplined for ''using Facebook to post their personal discussions concerning hospital patients.''
The University of Texas at Arlington said it had recently notified 27,000 people of a possible ''data compromise'' involving their prescription drug records. The information, including drug names and diagnostic codes, was stored on a computer file server that was not properly secured, university officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); MEDICAL RECORDS (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); CELEBRITIES (74%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BUDGETS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (69%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (50%); ATHLETES (50%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



569 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
PROPOSED MEDIA LAW
Stirs Alarm in South Africa
Business executives, civic leaders and journalists have warned that stringent new measures being advanced by the governing African National Congress would threaten press freedom, enshroud much official activity in secrecy, potentially punish offending journalists or whistle-blowers with up to 25 years in prison and undermine the fight against corruption in the continent's largest economy. PAGE A4
GAZA MALL'S SYMBOLIC VALUE 
Gaza City, famous for its misery, has a shopping mall. It opened a month ago to considerable fanfare, and for Hamas, and for the Hamas-linked group of local investors behind the enterprise, the mall, with its central air-conditioning and underground parking, has deep symbolic value. It is proof, they say, that the Palestinian coastal strip it can develop and thrive. PAGE A7
PAKISTAN'S WORSENING FLOODS
Floodwaters surged deeper into areas of southern Pakistan, forcing thousands to abandon their homes and flee to higher ground. Attention has now focused on the province of Sindh as the floods that have torn through the length of the country for three weeks finally move toward the Arabian Sea. PAGE A9
Iran Unveils Unmanned Bomber A9
First Fatality After Iraq Deadline A8
National
LAWMAKERS SEEK TO TIGHTEN
Rules On Medical Privacy
The Obama administration is rewriting new rules on medical privacy after an outpouring of criticism from consumer groups and members of Congress who say the rules do not adequately protect the rights of patients. PAGE A11
New York
GOING GREEN, BUT NOT BEING TOO PREACHY ABOUT IT
Sean Meenan, the owner of the ecologically-conscious Habana restaurants that exist in several locations throughout the city is a surprising spokesman for environmentalism. His restaurant empire's expansion comes as ever more restaurants are competing to attract diners who care about the carbon footprints of the places they patronize. PAGE A14
Metropolitan Diary A16
Business
SONY'S BIG BET
on TV Shows for the Web
While other media companies have halted their attempts to create original Web content because revenue failed to materialize, analysts think that Sony's continuing investment in Crackle.com could help the site become the primary entertainment channel for Sony's PlayStation Network, a fast-growing video service that pumps content into the living room via PlayStation 3 consoles. PAGE B1
BAFFLED BY THE 'FLASH CRASH'
On May 6, the stock market plunged 600 points, before mysteriously recovering within minutes. Since then analysts and regulators have been trying to determine what caused the ''flash crash.'' PAGE B1
WARNINGS ON TELECOM DEAL
Warning about a potential threat to national security, eight Republican lawmakers have asked the Obama administration to scrutinize a bid by Huawei Inc., one of the biggest corporations in China, to supply telecommunications equipment to Sprint Nextel in the United States. PAGE B1
PAYING TO PLAY MUSIC
The National Association of Broadcasters released what it described as a framework of a deal in which stations would pay a total of about $100 million a year in performance fees to recording artists. PAGE B2
Sports
FROM CALLING SIGNALS
To Calling the Shots
Pat Haden -- who once quarterbacked Southern California to three Rose Bowl appearances and was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford -- has taken over as the university's athletic director after they were heavily sanctioned for violating N.C.A.A. rules. PAGE D1
A TIMELY SWITCH TO ZONE
In the final seconds of a tense exhibition matchup with Spain in preparation for the World Basketball Championship, Team USA used a savvy tactical shift to zone -- instituted by Syracuse head coach and Team USA assistant coach Jim Boeheim -- on the game's final possession to secure a hard-fought 86-85 victory over the defending World Champions. PAGE D1
GLIMPSES OF HIS OLD FORM
LaDainian Tomlinson, a former N.F.L. Most Valuable Player, ranks among the great running backs in N.F.L. history. He has spent the preseason, his first with the Jets after nine seasons and 12,490 yards with the San Diego Chargers, trying to send the message that there is still something left in his 31-year-old legs. PAGE D5
Arts
HOW BLACKS TRAVELED WHEN
the Road Wasn't Open to All
For almost three decades beginning in 1936, African-American travelers relied on the so-called ''Green Book'' to help guide them to places where they could comfortably eat, sleep, buy gas, or find a tailor or beauty parlor in the Jim Crow era. A group of writers and curators are returning a spotlight to the guide. PAGE C1
SEARCHING FOR PLANET X
Nearly everyone in Michael Byers's second novel, ''Percival's Planet,'' about the discovery of Pluto, is mad in some way, from the merely obsessive to the completely delusional. Review by Suzanne Berne. PAGE C6
Obituaries
O. IVAR LOVAAS, 83
A psychologist and at the University of California, he developed one of the most widely used therapies for children with autism, and in doing so helped change the treatment and the public perception of the condition. PAGE A21
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A23
ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (89%); RESTAURANTS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (77%); HAMAS (76%); GREEN MARKET (75%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); RETAILERS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); HVAC SYSTEMS (69%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); CORRUPTION (56%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); HAMAS (83%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (71%) SOUTH AFRICA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAQ (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



570 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Scrutiny For Chinese Telecom Bid

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Binyamin Appelbaum contributed reporting from Washington, and John Markoff from San Francisco.

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- Warning about a potential threat to national security, eight Republican lawmakers have asked the Obama administration to scrutinize a bid by one of the biggest corporations in China to supply telecommunications equipment to Sprint Nextel in the United States.
In a letter sent last week to top administration officials, including Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and the director of national intelligence, Lt. Gen. James R. Clapper Jr., the senators expressed concern over claims that the company had sold equipment to the regime of Saddam Hussein and had a close business relationship with the Islamic Revolutionary Guard in Iran. 
The senators also said the company, Huawei Inc., had close ties to the People's Liberation Army in China.
''Sprint Nextel supplies important equipment to the U.S. military and law enforcement agencies, and it offers a broad array of devices, systems, software and services to the private sector,'' wrote the group of senators, including Jon Kyl of Arizona, Christopher S. Bond of Missouri and Susan Collins of Maine. ''We are concerned that Huawei's position as a supplier of Sprint Nextel could create substantial risk for U.S. companies and possibly undermine U.S. national security.''
A campaign to block Huawei's bid to sell equipment in the United States would almost certainly aggravate American-Chinese trade relations and intensify a longstanding debate over whether big Chinese companies will be allowed to invest in sensitive industries in the United States.
Several Chinese companies, including Huawei, have repeatedly been discouraged or blocked in recent years from doing business with American companies because of national security concerns, decisions that have angered Chinese officials and business leaders.
A Treasury spokeswoman, Natalie Wyeth, said the department had received the letter and was reviewing it. Ms. Wyeth said the government welcomed foreign investment in general, including from China. ''Foreign investment creates significant economic benefits for American workers, including millions of well-paying jobs,'' she said.
The letter, dated Aug. 18, drew sharp responses from both the Chinese government and Huawei. Wang Baodong, a spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in Washington, issued a statement saying Huawei was a private company that simply wanted to do business in the United States.
''We hope that some people in the U.S. will take a rational approach toward these normal commercial activities rather than do anything to stand in the way by abusing national security concerns,'' Mr. Wang said in the statement.
Huawei, which is based in Shenzhen in Southern China, issued its own statement late Friday saying that the Chinese government and military had no control over the company.
Huawei also defended itself against past charges that it had infringed on the intellectual property rights of American companies.
''Huawei is disappointed to learn that old mischaracterizations about the company still linger,'' Ross Gan, a company spokesman, said in the statement.
Under American law, an interagency panel called the Committee on Foreign Investments can block foreign companies from acquiring or investing in companies.
In this case, the senators, in their letter, asked the Obama administration and national security agencies to fully investigate Huawei and assess the risks posed by allowing it to sell equipment to Sprint Nextel.
In raising their concerns, the senators cited media reports; a press release from the Chinese embassy in Iran; a report by the Iraq Survey Group, a committee set up after the fall of Iraq; and several other documents.
The senators wrote that Huawei's presence in Iran, ''especially with military industries, suggests that under U.S. sanctions on Iran, Huawei should be prohibited from doing business with the U.S. government.''
The letter also highlighted the firm's ''reported relationship'' with the People's Liberation Army, citing what it called ''China's well-documented focus on developing cyber warfare capabilities.''
It concluded with a series of questions in which the senators asked whether the Treasury Department was currently negotiating a deal to allow Huawei to acquire or invest in American companies, and whether Huawei's potential control over a company involved with sensitive government contracts would ''present a national security threat for technology leakage or enhanced espionage against the United States.''
A spokesman for Sprint Nextel, one of the largest mobile phone operators in the United States, declined to comment late last week. Efforts to reach several of the senators for elaboration on the letter were unsuccessful.
Although Huawei is not well known in the United States, it is already one of the biggest telecom equipment suppliers worldwide, with major operations in China, Europe and Africa and revenue last year of over $20 billion
The company is now eager to enter the American telecom equipment market. But that move has been slowed by nagging questions about the company's history -- whether it has sold equipment to countries like Iraq and Iran; received financing from the Chinese government; or stolen technology from global companies.
The company was founded in the 1980s by Ren Zhengfei, a former officer in the People's Liberation Army. Some analysts say the Chinese government has helped Huawei win contracts in Africa and other developing nations and often helped finance government purchases of Huawei equipment.
Cisco Systems sued Huawei in 2003, saying that the company had illegally copied its software and infringed on several patents. The companies settled the case out of court.
Last month, Motorola sued Huawei in the United States, accusing it of plotting to steal trade secrets with the help of a group of former Motorola employees. Huawei insists the case has no merit and said it planned to fight it in court.
Huawei did not say what Sprint Nextel contract it was bidding on. But Huawei has had trouble entering the United States market.
In 2008, Huawei dropped a bid to take over the 3Com Corporation after the federal government began investigating whether the acquisition would pose national security risks. And earlier this year, Huawei lost bids to buy the assets of the software maker 2Wire and Motorola's wireless equipment unit, according to Bloomberg News. Bloomberg said Huawei lost both bids despite offering more than the winning bidders because the sellers doubted Huawei could win federal approval.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (62%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (60%); RELIGION (55%)

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (95%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JON KYL (58%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); KIT BOND (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



571 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Now That's Rich

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
We need to pinch pennies these days. Don't you know we have a budget deficit? For months that has been the word from Republicans and conservative Democrats, who have rejected every suggestion that we do more to avoid deep cuts in public services and help the ailing economy.
But these same politicians are eager to cut checks averaging $3 million each to the richest 120,000 people in the country. 
What -- you haven't heard about this proposal? Actually, you have: I'm talking about demands that we make all of the Bush tax cuts, not just those for the middle class, permanent.
Some background: Back in 2001, when the first set of Bush tax cuts was rammed through Congress, the legislation was written with a peculiar provision -- namely, that the whole thing would expire, with tax rates reverting to 2000 levels, on the last day of 2010.
Why the cutoff date? In part, it was used to disguise the fiscal irresponsibility of the tax cuts: lopping off that last year reduced the headline cost of the cuts, because such costs are normally calculated over a 10-year period. It also allowed the Bush administration to pass the tax cuts using reconciliation -- yes, the same procedure that Republicans denounced when it was used to enact health reform -- while sidestepping rules designed to prevent the use of that procedure to increase long-run budget deficits.
Obviously, the idea was to go back at a later date and make those tax cuts permanent. But things didn't go according to plan. And now the witching hour is upon us.
So what's the choice now? The Obama administration wants to preserve those parts of the original tax cuts that mainly benefit the middle class -- which is an expensive proposition in its own right -- but to let those provisions benefiting only people with very high incomes expire on schedule. Republicans, with support from some conservative Democrats, want to keep the whole thing.
And there's a real chance that Republicans will get what they want. That's a demonstration, if anyone needed one, that our political culture has become not just dysfunctional but deeply corrupt.
What's at stake here? According to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, making all of the Bush tax cuts permanent, as opposed to following the Obama proposal, would cost the federal government $680 billion in revenue over the next 10 years. For the sake of comparison, it took months of hard negotiations to get Congressional approval for a mere $26 billion in desperately needed aid to state and local governments.
And where would this $680 billion go? Nearly all of it would go to the richest 1 percent of Americans, people with incomes of more than $500,000 a year. But that's the least of it: the policy center's estimates say that the majority of the tax cuts would go to the richest one-tenth of 1 percent. Take a group of 1,000 randomly selected Americans, and pick the one with the highest income; he's going to get the majority of that group's tax break. And the average tax break for those lucky few -- the poorest members of the group have annual incomes of more than $2 million, and the average member makes more than $7 million a year -- would be $3 million over the course of the next decade.
How can this kind of giveaway be justified at a time when politicians claim to care about budget deficits? Well, history is repeating itself. The original campaign for the Bush tax cuts relied on deception and dishonesty. In fact, my first suspicions that we were being misled into invading Iraq were based on the resemblance between the campaign for war and the campaign for tax cuts the previous year. And sure enough, that same trademark deception and dishonesty is being deployed on behalf of tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans.
So, for example, we're told that it's all about helping small business; but only a tiny fraction of small-business owners would receive any tax break at all. And how many small-business owners do you know making several million a year?
Or we're told that it's about helping the economy recover. But it's hard to think of a less cost-effective way to help the economy than giving money to people who already have plenty, and aren't likely to spend a windfall.
No, this has nothing to do with sound economic policy. Instead, as I said, it's about a dysfunctional and corrupt political culture, in which Congress won't take action to revive the economy, pleads poverty when it comes to protecting the jobs of schoolteachers and firefighters, but declares cost no object when it comes to sparing the already wealthy even the slightest financial inconvenience.
So far, the Obama administration is standing firm against this outrage. Let's hope that it prevails in its fight. Otherwise, it will be hard not to lose all faith in America's future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); APPROVALS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



572 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Western Schools Sprout in South Korea

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOGWIPO, South Korea -- Here on Jeju Island, famous for its tangerine groves, pearly beaches and honeymoon resorts, South Korea is conducting a bold educational experiment, one intended to bolster opportunity at home and attract investment from abroad.
By 2015, if all goes according to plan, 12 prestigious Western schools will have opened branch campuses in a government-financed, 940-acre Jeju Global Education City, a self-contained community within Seogwipo, where everyone -- students, teachers, administrators, doctors, store clerks -- will speak only English. The first school, North London Collegiate, broke ground for its campus this month.
While this is the country's first enclave constructed expressly around foreign-style education, individual campuses are opening elsewhere. Dulwich College, a private British school, is scheduled to open a branch in Seoul, the capital, in a few weeks. And the Chadwick School of California is set to open a branch in Songdo, a new town rising west of Seoul, around the same time. 
What is happening in South Korea is part of the global expansion of Western schools -- a complex trend fueled by parents in Asia and elsewhere who want to be able to keep their families together while giving their children a more global and English-language curriculum beginning with elementary school, and by governments hoping for economic rewards from making their countries more attractive to foreigners with money to invest.
''We will do everything humanly possible to create an environment where your children must speak English, even if they are not abroad,'' Jang Tae-young, a Jeju official, recently told a group of Korean parents.
By inviting leading Western schools, the government is hoping to address one of the notorious stress points in South Korean society. Many parents want to send children abroad so they can learn English and avoid the crushing pressure and narrow focus of the Korean educational system. The number of South Korean students from elementary school through high school who go abroad for education increased to 27,350 in 2008 from 1,840 in 1999, according to government data.
But this arrangement often resulted in the fracturing of families, with the mother accompanying the children abroad and the father becoming a ''goose'' -- by staying behind to earn the money to finance these ventures and taking occasional transoceanic flights to visit.
This trend has raised alarms about broken families and a brain drain from a country that is already suffering from one of the world's lowest birthrates. Many of the children who study abroad end up staying abroad; those who return often have trouble finding jobs at Korean companies, regaining their language fluency or adapting to the Korean way of doing business.
Lee Kyung-min, 42, a pharmacist in Seoul whose 12-year-old daughter, Jeong Min-joo, attended a private school in Canada for a year and a half, said she knew why families were willing to make sacrifices to send their children away.
''In South Korea, it's all rote learning for college entrance exams,'' Ms. Lee said. ''A student's worth is determined solely by what grades she gets.'' She added that competition among parents forced their children to sign up for extracurricular cram sessions that left them with little free time to develop their creativity. ''Children wither in our education system,'' she said.
So Min-joo's parents believed that exposing her to a Western school system was worth the $5,000 they paid each month for her tuition and board, 10 times what they would have spent had she studied at home.
But Ms. Lee said her heart sank when Min-joo began forgetting her Korean grammar and stopped calling home. Still, she did not want to leave her husband behind to join her daughter, because she had witnessed in her own neighborhood how often the loneliness of ''goose'' fathers led to broken marriages.
''Our family was losing its bonds, becoming just a shell,'' she said.
In June, they brought Min-joo home, and they plan to enroll her in one of the international boarding schools in Jeju, often romanized as Cheju, next year. For Ms. Lee, this is the closest she can get to sending her daughter abroad without leaving the country.
''There is an expressed desire in Korea to seek the benefits of a 'Western' or 'American' approach to pre-collegiate education,'' said Ted Hill, headmaster of the Chadwick School, whose Songdo campus has been deluged with applicants to fill the 30 percent of slots reserved for Korean students. The balance of the student body will be recruited from expatriate families living in South Korea and China.
''When we explain to Korean parents what we try to do in the classroom, we see their eyes light up,'' said Chris DeMarino, business development director at Dulwich College Management International, which has a government-set 25 percent ceiling on Korean students at its Seoul school. ''There is a tremendous demand for what we offer, but, unfortunately, we have to turn many of them away.''
In South Korea, English proficiency and a diploma from a top American university are such important status markers that some deliberately sprinkle their Korean conversation with English phrases.
The country sends more nonimmigrant students -- 113,519 in the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, 2009 -- to the United States than any other country except China, according to the United States Office of Immigration Statistics.
In a 2008 survey by South Korea's National Statistical Office, 48.3 percent of South Korean parents said they wanted to send their children abroad to ''develop global perspectives,'' avoid the rigid domestic school system or learn English. More than 12 percent wanted it for their children as early as elementary school.
Critics say that the Jeju schools -- with annual tuition fees of $17,000 to $25,800 and their English-language curriculum, aside from the Korean language and history classes for Korean students -- will create ''schools for the rich.'' But Kwon Do-yeop, a vice minister of land, transport and maritime affairs whose department oversees the project, said it could save South Korea $500 million annually in what is now being spent to educate children overseas.
''Jeju schools cost half what you spend when you have your children studying in the United States,'' said Byon Jong-il, the chief of the Jeju Free International City Development Center, which is managing the education project as part of an overall plan for the island. ''Not everything goes right when you send your children abroad.''
Some of the things that can go wrong have been highlighted by the economic downturn.
''Many of the students who were sent abroad in the 1990s have since returned home,'' said Shin Hyun-man, the president of CareerCare, a job placement company. ''Despite their foreign diplomas, they were unable to find jobs abroad because of the global recession. But their Korean isn't good enough, and they don't adapt well to the corporate culture here.''
Jimmy Y. Hong, a graduate of Middlesex University in London and now a marketing official at LG Electronics in Seoul, said that when he returned to South Korea in 2008, he enrolled in a business master's degree program at Yonsei University in Seoul to help compensate for his lack of local school connections, which can be critical to making friends, landing jobs and closing deals.
''I feared I might be ostracized for studying abroad,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); TRENDS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (75%); CURRICULA (73%); PARENTS (71%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); CANADA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



573 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Germany's Recovery

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''German Growth Bolsters Its Stance on Recession'' (front page, Aug. 14), about Germany's remarkable recovery in the midst of global recession: 
German capitalism is an almost entirely different creature from the one that American workers have to contend with. Germany has about 60 percent unionization. And German workers have fully 50 percent representation on corporate boards. Then there are the works councils, in which German labor sets many of the basic rules of employment, not to mention cheap, superior and universal health care.
All in all, the German model of fully empowered labor cooperation with management has produced a far more robust, rational and moral economy than the one we have, in which labor has little say, firing employees is cause for celebration and lavish bonuses are given in the executive suites. The only worker satisfaction to be had here is to grab a couple of beers and pull the escape cord Steven Slater-style.
Gary Borg Chicago, Aug. 14, 2010
To the Editor:
As I read the article describing Germany's impressive economic growth this past quarter, the obvious question for us is: Why aren't we following this path, too?
Loose credit and excessive spending got us into the mess we're still in. So I don't understand why the solution both the Fed and the Treasury are pushing is easy credit to stimulate more consumer spending. This is a sure recipe for another bubble and crash.
We should be growing our economy by increasing our productivity and exports and not stimulating more spending, which just runs up our debt.
James P. Tuthill Lafayette, Calif., Aug. 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); WORKPLACE MORALE (72%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



574 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.15 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.18 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.14 percent.
These tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
TUESDAY
Lincoln, Neb., $100 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Prince Georges County, Md., $51.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Richland, S.C., School District, $94 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Jacksonville, Fla., $80.2 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
New Hampshire, $150 million of debt securities. Competitive.
THURSDAY
Austin, Tex., $79.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Bexar County, Tex., Hospital District, $205.1 million of certificates of obligation. Siebert Brandford Shank.
Chicago Park District, $68 million of general obligation bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
Glynn County, Ga., School District, $51.6 million of general obligation sales tax bonds. BB&T Capital Markets.
Guam Department of Education, $66.1 million of certificates of participation. Piper Jaffray.
Houston, $229 million of combined utility revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Indiana Finance Authority, $70 million of high revenue refinancing bonds. Bank of America.
Louisiana Environmental Facilities and Community Development Authority, $68.7 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Keegan.
Louisiana Offshore Terminal Authority, $70 million of deep-water port revenue bonds. SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Miami-Dade County, $217.3 million of transit system sales surtax revenue bonds. Loop Capital Markets.
New Mexico Education Assistance Foundation, $155 million of tax-exempt fixed-rate education bonds. Bank of America.
New Mexico Education Assistance Foundation, $228 million of tax-exempt, Libor rate floating bonds. Bank of America.
New Mexico Finance Authority, $200 million of state transportation refinancing revenue bonds. Bank of America.
North Carolina Capital Facilities Finance Agency, $243.2 million of waste disposal revenue bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
Northwest Independent School District, Tex., $55 million of general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Oklahoma Capitol Improvement Authority, $201 million of state highway capital improvement bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Polk County, Fla., $55 million of utility system revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Sarasota County, Fla., School Board, $72 million of certificates of participation. Citigroup Global Markets.
Southern California Public Power Authority, $533.1 million of revenue bonds. JPMorgan Securities.
Spokane, Wash., $78.3 million of limited-tax general obligation bonds. Barclays Capital.
University of Akron, Ohio, $141.6 million of general receipts bonds. Morgan Stanley.
University of South Carolina, $79.9 million of athletic facilities revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
Wilkes-Barre. Pa., Finance Authority, $65 million of University of Scranton revenue bonds. PNC Capital Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (96%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); SALES TAX (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (74%); SCHOOL BONDS (74%); SCHOOL BOARDS (74%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (67%); HARBORS & PORTS (64%); HOSPITALS (52%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (54%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (54%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (54%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); PJC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (77%); AKRON, OH, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



575 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include existing home sales for July (Tuesday); durable goods for July and new home sales for July (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims (Thursday); and the first revision of second-quarter gross domestic product and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for August (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting earnings will include Barnes & Noble, Burger King and Medtronic (Tuesday); Toll Brothers and TiVo (Wednesday); J. Crew (Thursday); and Tiffany (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATESBarclays will call its first witnesses in the trial of a lawsuit brought by Lehman Brothers, which contends Barclays improperly reaped billions of dollars when it bought Lehman's core banking operations during the 2008 financial crisis (Monday). People pursuing claims related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill will be able to file for compensation from the Gulf Coast Claims Facility (Monday). The Securities and Exchange Commission will vote on a proposal to allow shareholders to more easily nominate candidates for board seats (Wednesday). Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, will speak in Jackson Hole, Wyo., about the economic outlook (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); BP GULF SPILL CLAIMS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LITIGATION (69%); OIL SPILLS (52%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (71%); MEDTRONIC INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: MDT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (77%); GULF OF MEXICO (67%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



576 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Is It Fair to Raise the Retirement Age?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Attacking Social Security,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Aug. 16):
The importance of Social Security generally and the retirement age specifically is closely linked to race, class and gender.
Viewed from the perspective of privilege (most legislators and the co-chairmen of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, consciously or otherwise, see the world through that lens), it is easy to say that we are living longer and can work longer. But the generalization breaks down once we start paying attention to the work histories, health status and other limiting conditions that affect vast numbers of older people -- mostly women and people of color. 
There are many ways of ''fixing'' Social Security that will not unduly penalize those who cannot work until 70 or beyond because there are no jobs, or because they are simply too tired or worn down. Unlike people of privilege, they cannot retire without full benefits.
No policy should be considered just that further harms the already disadvantaged.
Martha Holstein Chicago, Aug. 16, 2010
The writer is co-director of the Center for Long-Term Care Reform.
To the Editor:
Paul Krugman seems to be saying that high-income people with comfortable jobs should keep a constant retirement age even as their life expectancy increases -- thereby collecting benefits for more years. The justification is that they live in a country with low-income people who have a shorter life expectancy, and therefore the retirement age should not rise more than is already scheduled.
It has long been known that Social Security is not as redistributive as we would like to think, because rich people live longer than poor. This gap has been increasing as high earners have gained access to better health care and adopted healthier lifestyles.
Wouldn't it be more fair (and more fiscally sustainable) to raise the retirement age automatically with life expectancy, while compensating low earners who have lower life expectancy?
This could be done by making the annual benefit schedule or the financing mechanism more progressive. For example, we could flatten out top benefits, raise the limit on taxable earnings or tax nonlabor income (while possibly exempting wages below a threshold).
Estelle James Sarasota, Fla., Aug. 16, 2010
The writer was lead economist for the World Bank and served on thePresident's Commission to Strengthen Social Security in 2001.
To the Editor:
Here is something Social Security's well-off opponents would prefer not be discussed: the people who take early retirement at age 62, even as the ''regular'' retirement age rises from 65 to 67.
As jobs become harder to find and as the lot of the working class continues to deteriorate, early retirement is often the only lifeline left to people exhausted and spat out by the cruelty of the American job market.
Raising the retirement age to 70 would make things only harder for those already the worst off.
David Tallman Atlanta, Aug. 16, 2010
To the Editor:
I agree that the effort to reduce Social Security's benefit levels is not only cruel, but also entails obfuscation of the facts. Attempts to reduce benefits and raise the eligibility age may also represent a cynical backdoor tax increase.
By law, income to the Social Security funds is invested in Treasury securities. By reforming Social Security, the government could, in effect, permanently run surpluses that would never be spent on benefits but would continue to underwrite excessive spending elsewhere.
So the politicians would ''save'' Social Security by reforming it in order to duck any responsibility to balance budgets elsewhere.
When it comes to Social Security, if it isn't broken, don't fix it.
Guthrie Alberts White Plains, Aug. 16, 2010
To the Editor:
Paul Krugman mentions ''affluent, white-collar workers -- the people who need Social Security least.''
Then why ignore the obvious, permanent and morally justified solution: limit the program's benefits to those who need them, rather than siphoning off a vast portion to pay benefits to those ''affluent, white-collar workers'' who don't? Kenneth A. Margolis Chappaqua, N.Y., Aug. 16, 2010
To the Editor:
Rather than cut Social Security benefits for those to whom they are essential, we should extend the payroll tax to the first $250,000 of income, beyond the current cap of $106,800.
Unfortunately, out of ignorance or indifference to the fate of others, I can see the elderly who now receive Social Security benefits voting in favor of cuts for future beneficiaries, ostensibly to protect their own benefits. That plays into the hands of the cynical Republican Party, which professes to care about the deficit now that it has dug us a very deep hole.
Bernard Bonn Sudbury, Mass., Aug. 16, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT AGE (92%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (87%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); WRITERS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); POOR POPULATION (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (66%); INCOME TAX (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (50%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (51%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



577 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: The Open Road Wasn't Quite Open to All

BYLINE: By CELIA McGEE

 BODY:
For almost three decades beginning in 1936, many African-American travelers relied on a booklet to help them decide where they could comfortably eat, sleep, buy gas, find a tailor or beauty parlor, shop on a honeymoon to Niagara Falls, or go out at night. In 1949, when the guide was 80 pages, there were five recommended hotels in Atlanta. In Cheyenne, Wyo., the Barbeque Inn was the place to stay.
A Harlem postal employee and civic leader named Victor H. Green conceived the guide in response to one too many accounts of humiliation or violence where discrimination continued to hold strong. These were facts of life not only in the Jim Crow South, but in all parts of the country, where black travelers never knew where they would be welcome. Over time its full title -- ''The Negro Motorist Green Book: An International Travel Guide'' -- became abbreviated, simply, as the ''Green Book.'' Those who needed to know about it knew about it. To much of the rest of America it was invisible, and by 1964, when the last edition was published, it slipped through the cracks into history. 
Until he met a friend's elderly father-in-law at a funeral a few years ago, the Atlanta writer Calvin Alexander Ramsey had never heard of the guide. But he knew firsthand the reason it existed. During his family trips between Roxboro, N.C., and Baltimore, ''we packed a big lunch so my parents didn't have to worry about having to stop somewhere that might not serve us,'' recalled Mr. Ramsey, who is now 60.
He is among the writers, artists, academics and curators returning a spotlight to the guide and its author, emblematic as it was of a period when black Americans -- especially professionals, salesmen, entertainers and athletes -- were increasingly on the move for work, play and family visits.
In addition to hotels, the guide often pointed them to ''tourist homes,'' privates residences made available by their African-American owners. Mr. Ramsey has written a play, ''The Green Book,'' about just such a home, in Jefferson City, Mo., where a black military officer and his wife and a Jewish Holocaust survivor all spend the night just before W. E. B. DuBois is scheduled to deliver a speech in town. The play will inaugurate a staged-reading series on Sept. 15 at the restored Lincoln Theater in Washington, itself once a fixture of that city's ''black Broadway'' on U Street.
Julian Bond, the civil rights leader who is now a faculty member at American University, will take on a cameo role. Mr. Bond recalled that his parents -- his father, a college professor, became the first black president of Lincoln University, in southern Pennsylvania -- used the book. ''It was a guidebook that told you not where the best places were to eat,'' he said, ''but where there was any place.''
In November, Carolrhoda Books will release Mr. Ramsey's ''Ruth and the Green Book,'' a children's book with illustrations by the award-winning artist Floyd Cooper. It tells the story of a girl from Chicago in the 1950s and what she learns as she and her parents, driving their brand-new car to visit her grandmother in rural Alabama, finally luck into a copy of Victor Green's guide. ''Most kids today hear about the Underground Railroad, but this other thing has gone unnoticed,'' said Mr. Ramsey. ''It just fell on me, really, to tell the story.''
Historians of travel have recognized that the great American road trip -- seen as an ultimate sign of freedom -- was not that free for many Americans, including those who had to worry about ''sunset laws'' in towns where black visitors had to be out by day's end.
For a large swath of the nation's history ''the American democratic idea of getting out on the open road, finding yourself, heading for distant horizons was only a privilege for white people,'' said Cotton Seiler, the author of ''Republic of Drivers: A Cultural History of Automobility in America,'' who devoted a chapter of his book to the experience of black travelers.
William Daryl Williams, the director of the School of Architecture and Interior Design at the University of Cincinnati, in 2007 organized a traveling exhibition he called ''The Dresser Trunk Project,'' in which he and 11 other architects and artists used the ''Green Book'' to inform works that incorporated locations and artifacts from the history of black travel during segregation. Mr. Williams's own piece, ''Whitelaw Hotel,'' referred to a well-known accommodation for African-Americans in Washington and included several pages from the ''Green Book.''
Lonnie Bunch, director of the Smithsonian's National Museum of African American History and Culture, a co-sponsor of ''The Green Book'' play reading, said the presence of the guide into the 1960s pointed out that at the same time people were countering segregation with sit-ins, the need to cope with everyday life remained.
He added: ''The 'Green Book' tried to provide a tool to deal with those situations. It also allowed families to protect their children, to help them ward off those horrible points at which they might be thrown out or not permitted to sit somewhere. It was both a defensive and a proactive mechanism.''
Although Victor Green's initial edition only encompassed metropolitan New York, the ''Green Book'' soon expanded to Bermuda (white dinner jackets were recommended for gentlemen), Mexico and Canada. The 15,000 copies Green eventually printed each year were sold as a marketing tool not just to black-owned businesses but to the white marketplace, implying that it made good economic sense to take advantage of the growing affluence and mobility of African Americans. Esso stations, unusual in franchising to African Americans, were a popular place to pick one up.
Mr. Bunch said he believes African American families are likely still have old copies sitting in attics and basements: ''As segregation ended, people put such things away. They felt they didn't need them anymore. It brought a sense of psychological liberation.''
Theater J in Washington, which specializes in Jewish-theme plays, is a co-producer of ''The Green Book'' reading. The ''inconveniences'' (as Green genteelly put it) of travel that African-Americans encountered were shared, albeit to a lesser extent and for a briefer period, by American Jews. In Mr. Ramsey's play the Holocaust survivor comes to the tourist home after he's appalled by a ''No Negroes Allowed'' sign posted in the lobby of the local hotel where he had planned to stay.
''The Jewish press has long published information about places that are restricted,'' Green wrote in his book's introduction, adding, ''There will be a day sometime in the near future when this guide will not have to be published. That is when we as a race will have equal opportunities and privileges in the United States.''
The Civil Rights Act was passed in 1964, and Mr. Green ceased publication.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A copy of the 1955 edition of ''The Negro Motorist Green Book,'' a travel guide for black Americans during the era of racial discrimination. (C1)
 Calvin Alexander Ramsey, right, at the Auburn Avenue Research Library in Atlanta. He is the author of a play and book, above, about how black travelers found food and lodging before the Civil Rights Act. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); WRITERS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (85%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (73%); HOLOCAUST (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); THEATER (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); CHEYENNE, WY, USA (92%); JEFFERSON CITY, MO, USA (75%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010



578 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2010

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Teaching With Infographics | Places to Start

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: This week is Infographics Week on The Learning Network because we know how important it is for students to be able to read and interpret visual representations of information - and because The New York Times consistently creates useful and elegant examples that we think teachers across the curriculum should know about. 

 BODY:
 Update: Feb. 29, 2012 Please note: The original video we used for this post was a video podcast by Gestalten TV in which New York Times Graphics Director Steven Duenes and Graphics Editor Archie Tse describe how their team works with breaking news to create clear, concise visualizations of data for readers. Since that has now been taken down, we have substituted a classic TED talk by David McCandless that we refer to in the post.
We're declaring this week Infographics Week on The Learning Network because we know how important it is for students to be able to read and interpret visual representations of information - and because The New York Times consistently creates useful and elegant examples that we think teachers across the curriculum should know about.
Not only do charts, graphs and maps show up on standardized tests of all kinds, but whiteboard technology has made the graphic depiction of information that much more useful and ubiquitous in classrooms.
We have a lot to say about this topic and scores of interesting examples to show you, so we're breaking it down over five days:
 Monday: This post: What infographics are, and some places in and outside The Times to see good ones
 Tuesday: The best Times infographics for social studies, history, civics and economics
 Wednesday: The best Times infographics for science and health
 Thursday: The best Times infographics for English language arts, fine arts and entertainment
 Friday: How one class learned to create their own infographics, with guest blogger Diana Laufenberg, a teacher in Philadelphia
Let us know how you teach with infographics, and please add your own examples to our lists each day!
 Update: We're putting the whole collection here, and we'll continue to update and add to it in the future. 
 Places to Start Learning About Infographics 
 Infographics in General: 

        
Talk to the Newsroom | Graphics Director Steve Duenes
Learn about how Bill Gates got interested in focusing on third world disease after seeing a Times infographic, how a Times graphic designer paced the dimensions of Saddam Hussein's spider hole in Iraq to create a sketch that became a 3-D diagram of the compound in the next day's paper, and more.
        
Talk to the Newsroom | Interactive News Collaborative
Learn about good interactive design and how the creative process is challenged by a breaking news schedule - and get advice if you're an aspiring journalist/programmer.
        
Communication Nation blog | What is an infographic?
        
VisualLiteracy.org | A Periodic Table of Visualization Methods
        
Randy Krum | 10 Tips for Designing Infographics
        
TED Talks | David McCandless: The Beauty of Data Visualization
        
B.B.C. video | Understanding Informational Charts
        
Times Topics page | Edward Tufte
 Infographics in Education: 

        
Langwitches Blog | Infographics- What? Why? How?
        
Larry Ferlazzo | The Best Sources For Interactive Infographics
        
Online University Data | 17 Eye-Popping Infographics on e-Learning
 Places to Start on The Learning Network 
Our collection Great Ways to Teach ANY Day's Times has a number of graphic organizers students can use to begin recording and analyzing almost any kind of data. Here are two that are especially useful:

        
Activity Sheet: A Graph Is Worth a Thousand Words, or At Least 50
Students write a textual explanation of a graph clipped from The Times
Teacher Instructions | Student Sheet
        
A Graphic Interpretation
Students use data provided in a Times article to create a graph or chart
Teacher Instructions|Student Sheet
 Places to Start on NYTimes.com 
We'll be giving you subject-specific examples all week, but here are good spots to find interesting data visualization in general in The Times:

        
New York Times Data Visualization Lab
Create visual representations of data and information using the "Many Eyes" technology from IBM Research.
Example: Lincoln's Second Inaugural Address
        
Multimedia Index
Example: Tracking the Oil Spill in the Gulf
        
Charles M. Blow is The Times's visual Op-Ed columnist.
Example: Justin Bieber for President
        
Charles M. Blow's By the Numbers blog
Example: Chart Abuse
        
Abstract City Blog
Christoph Niemann's work is more illustration than infographic, but we thought readers would want to know about it anyway.
Example: 
 Sources Around the Web for Interesting Infographics 
We've chosen one or two classroom- or kid-friendly examples from each of the following, though in some cases the graphic was made by the authors of the site or blog itself, and in others the purpose of the site or blog is simply to collect good examples from around the Web. 
 Update: Feb. 29, 2012: Here is an excellent list from Daily Tekk of "Over 100 Incredible Infographic Tools and Resources (Categorized)"

        
flowingdata.com
Example: Understanding Shakespeare with Visualization
Example: How to Win Rock-Paper-Scissors Every Time
        
Information Is Beautiful
Example: International Number Ones
        
Good Magazine infographics
Example: The Most Controversial Books in America
        
Cool Infographics
Example: Time Travel in Popular Movies and TV
        
The Infographics Showcase
Example: Most Widely Spoken Languages in the World
        
Fast Company infographics
Example: Who Drives Worse, Teens, or Seniors?
        
Visual Complexity
Example: The Geotaggers' World Atlas
        
Infographics News
Example: BBC Dimensions
        
Nigel Holmes | Explanation Graphics
Example: Relative Sizes of the US Surplus and Debt
        
Information Aesthetics
Example: U.S. Mood throughout the Day Inferred from Twitter

        
Teaching With Infographics | Language Arts, Fine Arts and Entertainment
        
Teaching With Infographics | Science and Health
        
Teaching With Infographics | Social Studies, History, Economics
        
Mapping Happiness: Analyzing an Interactive About a Nation's Well-Being
        
Data Visualized: More on Teaching With Infographics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CURRICULA (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); PODCASTING (78%); WRITERS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); HISTORY (70%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (66%) data visualization; infographic; infographics; Smart board; white board; whiteboard; Current Events; Data Analysis and Probability; Journalism; Lesson Plans; Mathematics; Media Studies; New Media Journalism; Summer Special; Teaching with The New York Times; Technological Innovations; Technology; Using the Internet; Visual Literacy

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012



579 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Private Equity Firm, Using Local Currency, to Create Funds With 2 Chinese Cities

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- TPG, one of the world's biggest private equity firms, said early Tuesday that it was teaming up with the municipal governments of two of China's biggest cities to raise nearly $1.5 billion and create its first funds denominated entirely in Chinese currency.
By making deals with the two cities -- Shanghai and Chongqing -- TPG, which will be the sole manager of each fund, is in a position to be one of the biggest investment firms in the Chinese market. 
The company, which has about $57 billion in assets under management worldwide, said that it was time to move into China's currency, the renminbi, and that it was drawn by the prospect of working with the Chinese government.
''Private equity is now a global business,'' Jim Coulter, a co-founder of San Francisco-based TPG, said in an interview Monday in Shanghai. ''And this is our commitment to China.''
The announcement comes as some of the world's biggest private equity firms, including the Blackstone Group and the Carlyle Group, have already scrambled to raise huge funds denominated in the renminbi.
Analysts say the moves are a reflection of the growing importance of the Chinese currency, but also a sign that global funds are eager to tap the enormous pools of wealth now forming in the fast-growing Chinese economy.
China's central government is encouraging the shift, hoping the renminbi investments will help strengthen the nation's capital markets and create a more efficient system for allocating capital to private Chinese companies.
For years, big private equity funds have financed start-ups here with United States dollar-denominated funds and complex offshore structures. The method often meant listing Chinese companies on overseas stock markets, beyond the reach of Chinese regulators.
But China now wants to keep more stock listings on shore, which could improve the quality of the companies listed in the domestic stock market and help create a vibrant private equity industry here.
Analysts say a growing number of Chinese companies no longer want to go through the trouble of creating offshore structures when there are more and more renminbi funds willing to invest.
This is part of China's plan to strengthen its financial services industry and transform cities like Beijing and Shanghai into global financial centers that can some day compete with New York, London, Tokyo and Hong Kong.
With the central government's approval, big Chinese cities like Shanghai are now offering incentives, including tax breaks and assistance navigating regulations, to attract private equity firms to establish funds in their regions.
But there are other inducements. By teaming up with the government, private equity firms believe they stand a better chance of getting speedier investment approvals and gaining access to huge pools of state capital.
''This is the new model,'' said Lawrence Sussman, a Beijing-based lawyer who specializes in local currency funds for O'Melveny & Myers. ''And fund raising is a driving force. Some governments are even asking them to bid to manage government funds.''
Many of the big global firms have opened a local currency fund. The Blackstone Group signed a joint venture in November with the Shanghai government to create a $732 million local currency fund. Earlier this year, the Carlyle Group signed its own deals with the Beijing government and the Fosun Group in Shanghai; and CDH Investments and the Hony Fund, which is controlled by the parent company of the Chinese computer maker, Lenovo, won approval in 2008 to invest money for China's huge government pension fund.
If TPG raises $1.5 billion in local currency funds, it will become the biggest global private equity firm in China's local currency market.
TPG, formerly known as the Texas Pacific Group, has a long track record of investing in China. The company has invested in Lenovo, the Shenzhen Development Bank and China Grand Auto, a huge auto dealership.
Shanghai, on China's east coast, and Chongqing, a sprawling city in western China, are both working aggressively to lure global financial services companies to the financial districts they are now developing. Shanghai is already a financial powerhouse, and Chongqing aspires to be something like Chicago, a centerpiece of China's ambitious ''go west'' program.
TPG executives say the new renminbi funds -- each of which aims to raise about 5 billion renminbi, or the equivalent of about $735 million -- would be able to invest in areas previously restricted by the government. And because regulators recently agreed to allow insurance companies to invest a portion of their money in private equity, the incentives for creating a local currency fund were now incredibly attractive, TPG said.
''This creates a different set of investing opportunities,'' said Stephen Peel, managing partner of TPG Asia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim Coulter is a co-founder of TPG, which plans to raise nearly $1.5 billion for two China funds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); INTERVIEWS (68%); APPROVALS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (90%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (90%); CG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (96%); CHONGQING, CHINA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



580 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2667 words

HEADLINE: As HUD Chief, Cuomo Earns A Mixed Score

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
As Andrew M. Cuomo campaigns for governor, he points to his leadership of the Department of Housing and Urban Development during the Clinton administration as proof he possesses the ability and vision needed to lead New York out of its fiscal and political swamps.
Mr. Cuomo was housing secretary at a critical moment for the nation, just as its subprime mortgage fever was beginning to spike. It was during his tenure that the banking industry began to embrace predatory loans, and these creations led to a housing bubble that badly damaged America's banks and nearly toppled its financial system.
An examination of Mr. Cuomo's tenure atop the agency shows he was quick to warn about Wall Street's dangerous hunger for predatory subprime loans -- generally more expensive mortgages sold to people with poor credit. He counseled caution when many influential players, including the Federal Reserve and Congress, resisted any suggestion that they slow the country's stampede to home ownership.
He also called attention to a pernicious mortgage-broker incentive payment that drove up interest rates for borrowers -- secretly, in many cases -- and that helped put many home buyers into loans they later found they could not afford. 
And, in an effort to reverse decades of discrimination against blacks and Latinos, Mr. Cuomo pushed the government-sponsored banks, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to buy more home loans taken out by poor and working-class borrowers.
But when presented with chances to throttle back on the exploding subprime market, guard against predatory lending and reel in mortgage brokers and lenders, Mr. Cuomo several times faltered and backed down, interviews and records show.
He did not heed local officials and others who wanted him to make Fannie and Freddie publicly report details about the loans they bought.
And he chose not to impose penalties and other deterrents to ensure that the giant public banks did not promote dangerous lending.
He also reversed himself, under heavy lobbying pressure from mortgage brokers and bankers, on the arcane but costly mortgage-broker payments known as yield spread premiums. These were lucrative bounties that banks paid to brokers who found new clients; the unwitting borrowers paid higher-than-market interest rates as a result.
Yield spread premiums fueled the subprime frenzy, according to official post-mortems on the crisis.
Nearly every political leader whose hands touched the fiscal and housing crises has had decisions scrutinized, actions questioned. Already, Mr. Cuomo has heard such rumblings from supporters of his likely Republican opponent, Rick A. Lazio, a former congressman.
Mr. Cuomo, whose tenure at HUD ended in early 2001, refused repeated requests to talk about his experience running the nation's housing agency and how he wrestled with such policy questions. He gave no reason for his reticence. Instead, his staff issued a statement, and his former chief of staff at HUD, Howard B. Glaser, took the role of surrogate for the candidate.
Mr. Glaser, now a consultant to the mortgage industry, produced an inch-thick binder that sang Mr. Cuomo's praises, attacked criticisms and deflected blame. Its title: ''The Myth of Andrew Cuomo and the Subprime Crisis.''
Some people, particularly from the ideological right, argue that Mr. Cuomo's decisions helped set in motion the nation's economic decline. Such claims seem likely to grow louder as Congress takes up the question of the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
''Raising the affordable housing low- and moderate-income goal to 50 percent was the key initial step in setting Fannie and Freddie on a path to insolvency,'' said Peter J. Wallison, a conservative scholar who sits on the Congressionally appointed Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, which was created in 2009.
That argument, the record suggests, seems overdrawn. The record shows that the mortgages bought by Fannie and Freddie during Mr. Cuomo's tenure had low default rates. More broadly, if Mr. Cuomo was less prescient and gutsy than he now claims, no one seriously argues he deserves some outsize share of the blame for the subsequent collapse.
Far more powerful actors, including the finance industry, its various regulators, two presidents and Congress, helped create the environment and wrote the policies that caused it.
To a certain degree, the clock ran out on Mr. Cuomo's reform ambitions; within months, George W. Bush was president and Mr. Cuomo was looking for work. And the worst lapses at HUD and at Fannie Mae, most experts and regulators now agree, came years after Mr. Cuomo departed, as Bush appointees set even higher and more perilous goals for personal home ownership.
So the scorecard for Mr. Cuomo appears mixed. Had he acted tougher, and perhaps risked more, he might well have forestalled or limited some of the worst abuses. It could be argued, though, that doing so would have required of him a degree of foresight lacking in nearly every national leader of that time.
''If they had put something in with a lot of teeth, it would've changed the world,'' said Dwight Jaffee, a University of California, Berkeley, economist who reported on the role of Fannie and Freddie to the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission. ''But no one in 2000 that I know of was thinking about that being necessary.''
Leaning Into a Fight
As the head of a department under near constant attack -- at his confirmation hearing, a Republican senator spoke of wanting to wipe HUD off the map -- Mr. Cuomo severely cut its budget and reshaped its structure. He also won the removal of several of HUD's most important departments, although not the entire agency, as he had said, from an official federal list of most-troubled government agencies. A practiced political player, he changed public housing and homeless policy, rewarded innovation and increased the number of housing vouchers for the poor.
''Extinction was right there on the table,'' said the current housing secretary, Shaun Donovan, who had been a deputy assistant secretary under Mr. Cuomo. ''It's pretty clear Cuomo helped save the agency.''
Mr. Cuomo's style, always, was to lean into a fight. And when he was appointed secretary in 1997, he saw an easy victory. He planned to tackle one of the mortgage brokerage industry's most abusive practices: the yield spread premium, by which banks paid lucrative bounties to mortgage brokers who found new clients.
''Too often consumers think the brokers are working for them,'' Mr. Cuomo warned. ''In reality, they are working against them.''
By the time the mortgage crisis exploded, nearly 9 out of 10 brokered subprime mortgages were saddled with these premiums, costing Americans untold hundreds of millions of dollars.
But when Mr. Cuomo's moment of decision came in March 1999, he proved less than bold. Those who had identified the premiums as a true menace wanted him to declare them illegal, and thus end them. Mr. Cuomo, though, ultimately ruled that the practice was ''not per se illegal.'' Those four words shocked advocates and undercut dozens of lawsuits intended to end the practice and to protect home buyers.
Under his policy, Mr. Cuomo also did not require mortgage brokers to disclose such payments to their customers.
The brokers were delighted. But others still harbor anger at Mr. Cuomo. David Donaldson, an Alabama lawyer who filed a high-profile case against the mortgage premiums, recently offered one word when asked his opinion of the former HUD secretary: ''Gutless.''
Mr. Donaldson said that at the time he thought he had found a sympathetic ear in Gail Laster, the HUD general counsel. She supported the idea of declaring the premiums illegal, he said.
''But she could only go so far, and I could only attribute that to one person, because there was only one person above her,'' Mr. Donaldson said.
Mr. Glaser disputed that version of events. He said Ms. Laster ''flatly told Cuomo that HUD had no legal authority to ban Y.S.P.'s.''
Ms. Laster now works as a lawyer for the House Financial Services Committee. She declined requests for a substantive interview.
Was she aware, Ms. Laster was asked by telephone, that Mr. Glaser had placed the onus on her?
''That's what they do now, isn't it?'' Ms. Laster said before hanging up.
Mr. Cuomo's 1999 policy statement held that yield spread premiums could be legal if mortgage brokers were paid a reasonable exchange for goods or services. The policy, Mr. Donaldson said, eliminated the ability of plaintiffs to bring class-action suits, a tactic he regarded as the most effective way of challenging the premiums.
''If you've got to look at every loan and see if it's reasonable, you can't have a class action,'' he said.
If Mr. Cuomo's decision disappointed them, it did not shock lawyers and others involved in fighting the practice. Mortgage brokers had a powerful lobby, with members in every Congressional district. Many legislators in Congress would fight Mr. Cuomo if he moved on the brokers.
''We're setting these rules in a context of litigation, with Congress standing ready to make changes if it didn't like what we did,'' said Mr. Donovan, the current housing secretary.
Mr. Donaldson and other lawyers eventually hit upon a strategy to press lawsuits even after Mr. Cuomo's policy statement; in 2001, HUD, under the Bush administration, slammed the door shut on those challenges as well.
Howell E. Jackson, a Harvard law professor who argued for the abolition of yield spread premiums, said a ban would have hit the industry hard, and Mr. Cuomo apparently decided against picking that fight.
''In retrospect, HUD was mistaken,'' he said. The premiums ''really fueled mortgage brokers, and consumers could never understand it. And it really fueled the boom.''
For some advocates for borrowers, the concept was all too simple. ''It's a kickback, and Cuomo did nothing to prevent that,'' said Bruce Marks, chief executive of the Neighborhood Assistance Corporation of America. ''That one thing would've had a huge impact on preventing the subprime crisis that we are in now.''
Congress finally outlawed yield spread premiums in July. The financial reform legislation forbids mortgage originators to charge fees linked to anything other than the principal amount of a loan.
Taking On Fannie Mae
Homeownership had jumped during the Clinton administration, to 65.4 percent in 1997, when Mr. Cuomo took charge, from 63.7 percent in 1993. The ambitious new HUD secretary wanted to keep the number rising.
But Mr. Cuomo quickly learned the HUD secretary was not the most powerful housing player in Washington. If he wanted to push homeownership, particularly for low- and middle-income Americans, he had to tackle Fannie Mae, with its considerable political muscle.
He decided to set the affordable housing goals high, at a fat, round 50 percent of the companies' business volume. His tactics were not terribly subtle. The agency commissioned and trumpeted a report showing that Fannie's new automated-underwriting system disproportionately screened out minority borrowers. This infuriated Fannie Mae's chairman, Franklin Raines, who is black.
When Fannie Mae resisted HUD's demand that it produce millions of loan records, Mr. Cuomo's agency sent a referral letter to the Justice Department, accusing Fannie's vice chairwoman, Jamie S. Gorelick, of having violated the False Claims Act. Ms. Gorelick, a former deputy attorney general, was said to have been enraged. The Justice Department did not pursue the matter. She declined to comment for this article.
But the government banks were on board. More loans would be made. And the evidence shows that Mr. Cuomo's higher goals did not force Fannie and Freddie to make riskier mortgages. In his report to the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, Professor Jaffee, the Berkeley economist, showed that default rates for mortgages bought by Fannie and Freddie from 2000 to 2003, under Mr. Cuomo's goals, were low and declined as the foreclosure crisis grew.
After 2004, by contrast, when the Bush administration announced an even steeper increase in the housing goals, Fannie and Freddie began buying large quantities of poor-quality loans, and the default rates shot higher and higher.
''Look at the timing,'' said Mr. Donovan, the current HUD secretary. ''Fannie and Freddie didn't start buying these truly bad loans for years until after Andrew left.''
Faulted on Safeguards
Where Mr. Cuomo can be faulted, according to some analyses, is that while in office he did not put in place the kinds of requirements and safeguards that might have prevented what would become Fannie and Freddie's mad push into ever riskier loans, or that could have at least limited their impact.
After all, by 1999, when Mr. Cuomo signaled his intention to raise the goals, both Fannie and Freddie had made their subprime ambitions well known, introducing no-down-payment products, openly talking of capturing half the market and alarming some top aides to Mr. Cuomo.
Indeed, some critics say that Fannie and Freddie appeared to use Mr. Cuomo's well-intentioned goals as political cover for getting into the lucrative subprime market.
''I believe it was simple avarice,'' Professor Jaffee said of Fannie and Freddie's true ambitions. '' 'We can buy these mortgages, make lots of money, and we'll be rich, and if it works out badly the government can take us over.' ''
Some consumer groups pleaded with Mr. Cuomo to prohibit Fannie and Freddie from buying predatory loans altogether, or at least to impose penalties. And they urged him to require a public accounting of Fannie and Freddie's loans, to see if they were including abusive mortgages in claiming credit toward achieving the goals. In effect, the public could have examined the loans the banks were making and sounded the alarm.
''I could tell you, loan by loan, what Bank of America was generating in a neighborhood,'' said Dan Immergluck, a professor of housing policy at Georgia Tech. ''I could not get that for'' Fannie and Freddie.
Speaking of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, called government-sponsored enterprises, he said: ''I wanted the public to know what kind of loans the GSEs were buying and investing in. And we didn't want the subprime stuff to count toward the housing goals. I think the general conclusion is that it did.''
But Mr. Cuomo refused to install the measures, and in the end, HUD and Mr. Cuomo sided with Fannie and Freddie, arguing in October 2000 that demands for more transparency would impose ''an undue additional burden.''
Asked why HUD had not required more detailed data reporting, Mr. Glaser said, ''It was too big a piece to chew off in this rule.''
Professor Immergluck offered a simpler explanation: ''They just didn't want to do it.''
In fairness to Mr. Cuomo, even consumer advocates who wanted him to build transparency and stronger safeguards into the housing goals say it would have been unrealistic to have expected much more from him.
''It would've taken a person of tremendous courage and political juice to be able to effect more protection,'' said Margot Saunders, a lawyer for the National Consumer Law Center. ''He could've done more, but not a whole lot more.''
Mr. Cuomo did speak out more loudly and presciently on the question of predatory lending by private mortgage companies. He held hearings across the country, and warned -- a bit ahead of his time -- of the danger in Wall Street's growing investment in the subprime market.
In June 2000, HUD and the Treasury issued a report on predatory lending. It recommended bolstering disclosure requirements, enhancing consumer protections against high-interest loans and curtailing prepayment penalties.
It was a fairly powerful report. But it required Congressional and Federal Reserve action, and when Vice President Al Gore lost the 2000 election to Mr. Bush, Mr. Cuomo was out of a job.
''He wrote what I think is the definitive report on solutions,'' said Judith Kennedy, president of the National Association of Affordable Housing Lenders. ''Whereupon they lost the administration.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WARNINGS: Andrew M. Cuomo addressing the press about the issue of predatory lending in 2000, with Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TAKING ISSUE: David Donaldson, an Alabama lawyer who filed a high-profile case about certain mortgage practices, is critical of Mr. Cuomo's record. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY TRAMONTINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 BIG TARGET Mr. Cuomo pushed Fannie Mae, led by Franklin Raines, above, to buy more home loans taken out by poor and working-class borrowers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/BLOOMBERG, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); PREDATORY LENDING (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); FAIR LENDING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LOAN BROKERS (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (75%); CITIES (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%); FRANK RAINES (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



581 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Judges, Perceiving Leniency in Bank Settlements, Sound Off

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Everything was rolling along traditional lines. A bank broke the rules. The government found out. The company agreed to pay a fine and improve its behavior.
And then the judge assigned to approve the deal blew his top.
In a scene that is becoming increasingly common, Judge Emmet G. Sullivan of Federal District Court chewed out federal prosecutors at a hearing in Washington last week for a proposed settlement with Barclays.
''Why isn't the government getting tough with banks?'' he asked.
Just one day earlier in the same courthouse, Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle refused to sign a settlement between the government and Citigroup, demanding, ''Why would I find this fair and reasonable?'' She ordered government lawyers to return with answers next month. 
The scoldings from the bench are a striking departure from a long tradition of judicial deference to settlements formulated by federal agencies, reflecting broad disenchantment not just with Wall Street, but with its government overseers.
It is a pattern that began last year, when Judge Jed S. Rakoff of Federal District Court in Manhattan denounced the Securities and Exchange Commission for going easy on Bank of America, which the agency had accused of misleading its shareholders.
''The courts are staking out a role that frankly we seem to need,'' said Jill E. Fisch, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania. ''They are standing in for the general public, the public interest, and demanding more'' from regulators.
The immediate impact, however, has varied. Courts have limited power over settlements. Judge Rakoff persuaded the S.E.C. to punish Bank of America with a larger fine, but Judge Sullivan gave grudging approval last week to the deal between the Justice Department and Barclays after airing his concerns for a second day.
Experts also disagree about the long-term consequences. Some, like Professor Fisch, expect regulators to seek more punitive settlements. Others said that agencies instead would favor lenient penalties that do not require judicial review.
M. Todd Henderson, a law professor at the University of Chicago, said the impact would be determined by the public's reaction.
''I think it's a public relations stunt more than anything else,'' Professor Henderson said. ''The court is trying to make it public that the government may be cutting cozy deals, because it is the public that ultimately controls the executive branch,'' which includes the Justice Department and the S.E.C.
Litigants are generally free to settle cases on agreed terms, but the law grants judges a narrow mandate in some cases to reject settlements that they believe do not serve the public interest. In the cases at hand, the judges expressed concern that the government was claiming victory without holding companies properly accountable -- an approach Judge Rakoff described last year as creating a ''facade of enforcement.''
The Barclays settlement, which Judge Sullivan approved last week, involved charges that the British bank helped customers in Iran, Cuba and other sanctioned nations move more than $500 million into the United States, breaking federal law -- and undermining national policy -- for more than a decade. The bank distributed instructions to employees for circumventing internal controls, for example by obscuring the source of the transfers.
Moreover, employees knew the transfers were illegal.
The cover sheets ''must not mention'' the offending entity, which could cause the funds to be seized, one employee wrote in an e-mail quoted by prosecutors. ''A good example is Cuba, which the U.S. says we shouldn't do business with but we do.''
The Justice Department agreed not to pursue criminal charges against the bank. In exchange, Barclays admitted to wrongdoing, forfeited $298 million and agreed to improve employee training.
Justice defended the settlement as a ''serious sanction,'' and said it did not seek a larger fine because Barclays had disclosed the crimes and cooperated with prosecutors.
''The public looks at this and says, you know, they're getting a free ride here,'' Judge Sullivan told government lawyers last Wednesday. He said he had agreed to approve the settlement despite his concerns because it was not his job to supervise the department.
Under the terms of Citigroup's proposed settlement, which Judge Huvelle has questioned, the bank would acknowledge concealing from shareholders the extent of its investment in subprime mortgages, which totaled more than $50 billion in 2007. The chief financial officer at the time, Gary L. Crittenden, told investors that the bank's exposure totaled only $13 billion.
The S.E.C. calculated that the company realized an economic benefit of up to $123 million from its misrepresentations, but proposed to settle for a fine of $75 million.
''You expect the court to rubber stamp, but we can't,'' Judge Huvelle said.
Judge Rakoff told an audience at Stanford in June that he hoped other judges would follow the example that he set last year in the Bank of America case. That case, he said, ''may enable some of my colleagues to be a little more proactive in assessing S.E.C. settlements in the future.''
''I like to think that it will contribute to greater justice.''
But David S. Ruder, chairman of the S.E.C. in the late 1980s, said that regulators were in a better position to determine the fairness of a settlement because they commanded both the specifics and context of each case.
''It's my view that by and large the judge ought to give great deference to the judgment of the agency as to what's the appropriate punishment,'' said Mr. Ruder, now a law professor at Northwestern University.
The three judges, all appointed to the district courts by President Bill Clinton, have shown particular frustration with the government's failure to punish individuals.
Judge Rakoff repeatedly questioned the S.E.C.'s decision not to bring charges against the Bank of America's executives. The agency described their conduct as negligent but not fraudulent. The New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, has since filed civil fraud charges against the former chief executive Kenneth D. Lewis and another executive. They have denied the allegations, and the case is pending.
The Citigroup case includes companion settlements with Mr. Crittenden and another executive. But the S.E.C. said in its complaint that other executives also had been aware of the legerdemain, prompting Judge Huvelle to demand an explanation as to why other Citigroup executives were not cited.
And the Justice Department did not seek to hold any employees responsible for the crimes that it attributed to Barclays, leading Judge Sullivan to observe that corporations are inanimate objects.
''You agree there must have been some human being who violated U.S. laws?'' he asked the government's lead lawyer.
He proceeded to ask that same question in a dozen different ways, growing increasingly exasperated with the answers, until he finally interrupted the government lawyer to ask, ''Can I just share a thought with you?''
''You know what?'' he asked. ''If other banks saw that the government was being rough and tough with banks and requiring banking officials to stand before federal judges and enter pleas of guilty, that might be a powerful deterrent to this type of conduct.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Judges Emmet G. Sullivan, left, Jed S. Rakoff, center, and Ellen Segal Huvelle have said the government is far too quick to claim victory in some of its settlements with bank executives. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JUSTIN MAXON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (77%); LAWYERS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



582 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Japan Finds It Has Few Options in War Against Falling Prices

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- The economist Milton Friedman once famously proposed scattering money from a helicopter to get consumers to spend their way out of deflation -- the debilitating decline in prices and wages that can act as a deadweight on economic activity.
Copter cash may not yet be among the tools considered by the Japanese central bank in its quest to lift the country out of a long deflationary slump. But pressure is mounting on the Bank of Japan for more drastic action.
Last week, the deflation doldrums that have becalmed the Japanese economy for much of the past decade helped knock Japan from its long-held ranking as the second-largest economy. (China edged up to No. 2, behind the United States.)
And recent signs of a Japanese recovery now seem to be fading: The economy grew an anemic 0.1 percent between April and June. Meanwhile, a strengthening yen, which hurts Japan by making its exports less competitive, has many people calling for the bank to further ease its monetary policy to shore up the economy -- if not outright government intervention in currency markets. 
But on Monday, hopes for decisive action were dashed when Prime Minister Naoto Kan and the governor of the Bank of Japan, Masaaki Shirakawa, opted not to hold a widely anticipated meeting, but instead engaged in a 15-minute phone call in which the two did little more than agree to ''communicate closely with each other.''
''There was absolutely no talk'' of currency intervention in their conversation, said Yoshito Sengoku, the government's top spokesman.
Following Mr. Sengoku's comments, the Nikkei stock index slipped 0.68 percent, to 9,116.69, its lowest close this year, . The yen continued to hover close to 15-year highs, or around <5>85.35 to the dollar.
''The government has again taken a wait-and-see attitude,'' said Norio Miyagawa, asenior economist at Mizuho Securities Research and Consulting. ''The truth is, there are no quick fixes, but markets are disappointed that they got nothing at all.''
Indeed, while Japanese economic officials have long been accused of moving too slowly and timidly, they now seem to have few good options, whatever their will for pursuing them.
In the United States, there has been considerable debate about whether the U.S. economy faces a similar deflationary risk and whether the Federal Reserve should be doing more to guard against falling into the same trap.
Some of those fears may well be overblown, but a widely read paper by James Bullard, the Fed's regional bank president from St. Louis, has warned that the U.S. economy faces a risk of becoming ''enmeshed in a Japanese-style deflationary outcome in the next several years.''
Japan's experience shows that deflation can creep up on an economy -- and can be extremely difficult to shake.
In Japan, companies remain unsure of how much to invest, because deflation makes it unclear how much they can sell -- and for how much. Households have little incentive to spend, knowing goods and services will get cheaper the longer they wait.
That lack of spending, in turn, is deepening Japanese deflation, as companies are forced to decrease prices in a desperate bid to attract buyers.
An aging, dwindling population has further sapped demand. So have widely held fears over jobs, wages and pensions, which are prompting consumers to hunker down and save instead of spend. ''Zombie'' companies, propped up by rigid regulations and comfy ties with banks, leave little space for newer companies that might take more investment risks, offer more innovative products and services, and stimulate demand.
''Japan's deflation is not caused by a lack of liquidity or high interest rates,'' said Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JP Morgan Securities Japan. ''The problem is that people and firms do not want to spend money.''
Any opportunity for fresh stimulus spending is limited by a $10 trillion public debt that is twice the size of the Japanese economy, as well as an impasse in the country's Parliament.
Mr. Kan appeared to back away Friday from recent talk of more stimulus, instead indicating that he would lean on the central bank to do more to sustain Japan's recovery. ''We need to think more about ways to boost the economy that don't rely on pump-priming,'' Mr. Kan said.
The central bank's options are also limited. With the main interest rate under its control -- the so-called policy rate -- at 0.1 percent, the bank has little leeway to lower rates further. That limits the bank to measures like buying up long-term government bonds, or pumping more short-term financing into banks, an approach it introduced in December.
But consumer demand in Japan has become so weak -- and deflationary expectations are now such the norm -- that the economy seems no longer to respond to such monetary tools.
After Japan's storied economic run-up of the 1980s became a speculative bubble that burst in 1990, it took about four years for its economy to hit the bottom. It then took another four years for deflation to take hold.
Not until 1999 did the Bank of Japan respond by lowering its policy interest rate to zero. By that time, however, the economy was so depressed that not even zero interest rates could induce recovery.
Only when the central bank in 2003 began sharply increasing its purchases of financial assets to flood the economy with more money was the stage set for a gradual recovery. And yet, despite stable economic growth of 2.5 percent from 2004 through 2007, the deflation glacier did not completely melt: The decline in the consumer price index, a measure of deflation that tracks the average price for a basket of goods, slowed but did not disappear.
Still, emboldened by a nascent recovery, the Bank of Japan began raising its policy rate in July 2006, bringing it to 0.5 percent by the following March -- a controversial step that some economists and politicians, called premature.
Before that debate could fully play out, the global economic crisis ravaged Japan's export markets, plunging the country into its worst recession since World War II. In 2008, the Bank of Japan again slashed interest rates, to 0.1 percent.
Now, an upward swing in the value of its currency is adding to the country's woes by threatening its export-led economy, making Japanese goods more expensive overseas and eroding the value of Japanese corporate earnings. The yen tends to strengthen against other currencies despite weaknesses in the Japanese economy because the country continues to chalk up current-account and trade surpluses.
The yen has risen about 8 percent against the U.S. dollar in the past three months, and it recently hit a 15-year high of <5>84.73 before weakening slightly.
The Bank of Japan could mitigate the yen's damaging rise by further easing monetary policy, lowering long-term interest rates, buying up long-term government bonds or supplying banks with more short-term financing.
The lower interest rates are in Japan, the bigger the potential difference between rates in the nation and elsewhere, giving market players more incentive to sell the yen to invest in other currencies. But as long as rates are nearly as low in other countries, including the United States and the euro zone, there is little motivation for currency traders to abandon the yen.
In recent days, government ministers have openly called on the central bank to do more to ease the rise in the yen.
''The monetary authorities should send a strong message that the yen is too strong,'' Seiji Maehara, the influential minister of land, infrastructure and transport, said Friday.
But analysts doubt how aggressive the central bank will be, given its widely known discomfort for a monetary policy that has stayed so easy for so long.
''We think that the market is pinning rather too many hopes on countermeasures'' to deflation and the yen's rise, Taisuke Tanaka, a strategist at Nomura Securities in Tokyo, wrote in a note to clients this week. ''The market may soon realize just how few options Japanese authorities have left.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shopping for sneakers at a store closing sale in Tokyo. Consumers have little incentive to increase their spending, knowing that prices are likely to go lower. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURIKO NAKAO/REUTERS) CHART: Everyday Low Prices: Falling prices in Japan have made consumers reluctant to spend and companies hesitant to invest. (Source: Japanese Statistics Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); HELICOPTERS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EQUITY RESEARCH (76%); JAPANESE YEN (76%); RANKINGS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%)

COMPANY: MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: NAOTO KAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



583 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. to Repay Fed $3.9 Billion Of Bailout Loan

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
In its single biggest repayment of bailout loans so far, the American International Group said Monday that it was paying back more than $3.9 billion in taxpayer aid with proceeds from a recent debt sale. 
The insurer's aircraft leasing company, the International Lease Finance Corporation, completed the sale of $4.4 billion in debt. A.I.G. will use more than $3.9 billion of the proceeds to repay the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, trimming the balance on its credit line with the Fed to about $15 billion. Adding interest, the total is about $21 billion.
The emergency credit line was part of a $182 billion federal bailout package that A.I.G. received during the financial crisis to avoid collapse. A.I.G., which is based in New York, has been selling assets to pay back the aid.
As of June 30, excluding the new payment, A.I.G. said its outstanding balance owed to the government stood at about $101 billion. The total includes debt as well as preferred shares of stock in A.I.G. held by the Treasury Department.
A.I.G. said it would book a pretax charge of about $650 million against its earnings as a result of the repayment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LEASING INDUSTRY (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE CORP (72%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



584 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: In the Fields Of Italy, A Conflict Over Corn

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
VIVARO, Italy -- Giorgio Fidenato declared war on the Italian government and environmental groups in April with a news conference and a YouTube video, which showed him poking six genetically modified corn seeds into Italian soil.
In fact, said Mr. Fidenato, 49, an agronomist, he planted two fields of genetically modified corn. But since ''corn looks like corn,'' as he put it, it took his opponents weeks to find his crop.
The seeds, known as MON810, are modified so that the corn produces a chemical that kills the larvae of the corn borer, a devastating pest. Yet while European Union rules allow this particular seed to be planted, Italy requires farmers to get special permission for any genetically modified, or G.M., crop -- and the Agriculture Ministry never said yes.
''We had no choice but to engage in civil disobedience -- these seeds are legal in Europe,'' said Mr. Fidenato, who has repeatedly applied for permission, adding that he drew more inspiration from Ron Paul than Gandhi. 
The World Trade Organization says that general bans on genetically modified crops constitute an unfair trade barrier, because there is no scientific basis for exclusion. But four years after a W.T.O. panel ruled that European Union policies constituted an illegal ''de facto moratorium'' on the planting of genetically modified seeds, some farmers, like Mr. Fidenato, and seed producers like Monsanto complain that Europe still has not really opened its doors.
It is true that a small but growing number of European countries, including Spain, Portugal and Germany, now allow some cultivation of genetically modified crops. But only two genetically modified seeds (MON810 and the Amflora potato seed) out of dozens on the global market have made it through the European Commission's laborious approval process, a prerequisite for use.
What is more, some areas of Europe have declared themselves ''G.M.O.-free zones,'' or free of genetically modified organisms. France, Austria and Germany specifically ban MON810, saying they believe that it could harm local crops. In Italy, a Kafkaesque approval process in which the Agriculture Ministry has never established the requirements for success, makes genetically modified crops a nonstarter.
Such foot-dragging reflects passionate public opposition to the crops in many parts of Europe, even as more than three-quarters of corn, soybeans and sugar beets in the United States are genetically modified. Though the science is at best inconclusive, there is a widespread conviction in Italy that genetically altered foods and crops pose dangers to human health and ecosystems.
After Mr. Fidenato's provocation, investigators did genetic testing to identify the locations of the offending stalks in the sea of cornfields that surround this tiny town. Officials seized two suspect fields -- about 12 acres -- and declared the plantings illegal. Greenpeace activists surreptitiously snipped off the stalks' tassels in the hope of preventing pollen from being disseminated.
On Aug. 9, 100 machete-wielding environmental activists from an antiglobalization group called Ya Basta descended on Vivaro and trampled the field before local police officers could intervene. They left behind placards with a skull and crossbones reading: ''Danger -- Contaminated -- G.M.O.''
Giancarlo Galan, who became agriculture minister in April, called the protesters ''vandals,'' although he did not say he would allow genetically modified crops. But Luca Zaia, the previous agriculture minister and president of the nearby Veneto region, applauded the rampage, saying: ''There is a need to show multinationals that they can't introduce Frankenstein crops into our country without authorization.''
Over the past decade, genetically modified crops have been a major source of trade friction between Europe and the United States.
Both the United States Food and Drug Administration and the European Food Safety Agency say that there is no scientific evidence that eating MON810 corn is dangerous. But there is greater disagreement on how genetically modified plants affect ecosystems and whether traditional and genetically modified crops can be kept apart to avoid what organic farmers call ''contamination'' of traditional crops by modified plants or genes. Seed or pollen can travel with the wind or on farm equipment or truck tires, sometimes for hundreds of miles.
This issue is particularly sensitive in Italy, whose farmers rely heavily on specialized organic and heritage crops, like hundreds of varieties of tomatoes. Crops contaminated with genetically modified material can lose its organic designation. Farmers worry that plants with tailor-made survival genes will over time displace tastier traditional varieties.
Greenpeace has called the European Union's judgment to accept MON810 as safe ''fundamentally flawed,'' noting, for example, that the chemical that kills corn borer larvae could also harm butterflies that land on the plants. Even in the United States, reservations linger. This month, a federal judge in San Francisco revoked permission for further planting of genetically modified sugar beets, saying that the Agriculture Department had not adequately assessed the environmental consequences; 95 percent of the sugar beets in the United States are genetically modified.
Faced with a W.T.O. judgment on the one hand and a reluctant public on the other, the European Commission has tried in recent years to walk a middle ground. It requires countries to establish procedures for separating traditional and modified crops, like maintaining certain distances between fields. Recent proposals give regions increasing latitude to deny entry to such plants if they provide scientific proof that the seeds could harm the environment, however.
But groups like the American Farm Bureau Federation say that studies used to justify excluding genetically modified crops do not pass muster.
Here in Vivaro, farmers are divided about the issue, said Luca Tornatore, Ya Basta spokesman and an astrophysicist from Trieste, Italy, noting that his group's ''blitz'' did not allow much time for talking with local people.
Residents may not know much about the science of genetically modified crops, but they are quite familiar with the corn borer larvae; they tunnel into ears of corn, allowing funguses to fill the holes in their wake. Some of the funguses produce mycotoxins that can end up in places like the milk of corn-fed cows and have been associated with serious health problems, including cancers.
Some farmers spray insecticides on the crops to prevent the boring, but it must be applied at just the right moment and leaves chemical residues as well as an odor in the air. Others simply sell the corn in bulk, ignoring the problem, said Mr. Fidenato, displaying an ear from a field that was alive with worms and covered with patches of white fuzz.
If the Italian government does not relent on the genetically modified seeds, he warned, he commands an army of farmers across Italy who are prepared to plant MON810 to force its hand.
But it is not clear that the battle of Vivaro will have a quick victor. Jail time or at least fines are expected for Mr. Fidenato (illegal planting) and Mr. Tornatore (trespassing and destroying private property).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An ear of corn infested with corn borers. A modified variety is meant to counteract the pest.
 Last week, Giorgio Fidenato, who had planted genetically modified corn, stood amid stalks that had been trampled by antiglobalization activists. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NADIA SHIRA COHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: In Italy, permission is needed for genetically modified crops. (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (92%); AGRICULTURE (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); AGRONOMY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); POTATO FARMING (77%); CHEMICALS MFG (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); CHEMICALS (75%); APPROVALS (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); GENETIC SCREENING (72%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (70%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (90%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (90%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); ITALY (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (77%); AUSTRIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



585 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: 'Too Big to Fail' View Hurts Small Banks, Fed Official Says

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
OVERLAND PARK, Kan. (Reuters) -- Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, warned on Monday that landmark financial reforms may not end market perceptions that taxpayers will rescue the largest banks, and he cautioned against speculative investments in housing. 
Mr. Hoenig, testifying at a field hearing of the House Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, said larger banks perceived as ''too big to fail'' have a lower cost of capital, putting smaller banks at a competitive disadvantage and threatening their business model.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act intended to end Wall Street bailouts by giving regulators a mechanism to seize and shut down failing large institutions in much the same manner as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation can shut down smaller banks.
Mr. Hoenig said it was not yet clear whether the overhaul would put big and small banks on an equal footing.
''That can only happen if markets are absolutely convinced that too big to fail has finally been ended and only time will tell. It's an open question,'' he told the hearing in suburban Kansas City.
Mr. Hoenig, the Fed's lone policy dissenter in recent months, did not address the central bank's outlook on the economy or monetary policy. He voted against the Fed's decision earlier this month to reinvest funds from maturing mortgage-backed securities into Treasury debt to help push down mortgage interest rates further, citing a gradual improvement in the economy.
He also told the House panel that housing was not suitable for speculative investments by consumers.
''If the American people are looking for the housing market to be their investment opportunity, I think they're making a mistake,'' Mr. Hoenig said.
He said community banks had been tested by the ''abnormally slow recovery'' that the American economy had experienced in the last two years and continued to face difficulties. ''Commercial real estate, particularly land development loans, will be a drag on earnings for some quarters yet,'' he added.
Community banks are generally considered those with less than $10 billion in assets, which account for all but about 83 of the 6,700 banks in the United States, he said. All but three of the 1,100 banks based in the Kansas City Fed district are community banks.
''Community banks will survive the recession and will continue to play their role as the economy recovers,'' Mr. Hoenig said. ''The more lasting threat to their survival, however, concerns whether this model will continue to be placed at a competitive disadvantage to larger banks. Because the market has perceived the largest banks as being too big to fail, they have the advantage of running their business with a greater level of leverage and a lower cost of capital and debt.''
He said that despite provisions in recently enacted landmark financial regulatory reform law to seize and shut down failing big institutions, the markets will continue to perceive many large banks as too big to fail, giving them lower operating costs than community banks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas Hoenig, head of the Kansas City Fed, says the perception that big banks will be rescued lowers their cost of capital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECESSION (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); INTEREST RATES (64%); MORTGAGE RATES (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (93%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



586 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: A Real Debate on Taxes

 BODY:
A deadline is supposed to concentrate the mind. But the year-end expiration of the Bush-era tax cuts, and the November elections, are having the opposite effect.
Americans need to hear a serious debate about how the country can meet the twin fiscal challenges of supporting the weak economy now and taming the budget deficit as things improve. That debate is not happening in Washington, and it is certainly not happening on the campaign trail.
The Republicans are insisting on extending each and every one of the tax cuts forever. It is impossible to square that demand with their calls to reduce the deficit, so they do not even try. 
President Obama is right when he says the country cannot afford to extend all of the tax cuts. He wants to let the tax cuts expire on the top 2 to 3 percent of American households (couples making more than $250,000 a year, individuals making more than $200,000) and permanently extend them for everyone else. The problem is that a permanent extension of the so-called middle-class tax cuts is also unaffordable.
It makes sense to extend them temporarily, because the weak economy needs the boost. But more revenue will be needed in years to come to keep rebuilding the economy and meet health care and other obligations to retiring baby boomers. That means more Americans -- and not just the rich -- are going to have to pay more taxes. For all the politicians' talk about deficits, no one is saying that.
In typical Washington fashion, Congress may dodge the deadline, say, by extending all of the tax cuts for another year or so and pretending that the politics will be easier later on. There will never be an easy time.
An honest debate needs to start with the numbers. The tax cut packages of 2001 and 2003 -- heavily skewed to high earners -- cut taxes by $1.65 trillion. In 2001, supporters argued that with the budget in surplus, the cuts were affordable. In 2003, they argued that the cuts would spur investment and growth and pay for themselves.
It has not turned out that way. Since 2002, the federal budget has been chronically short of revenue. According to calculations by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, if the tax cuts of the Bush years had never been enacted, publicly held debt at the end of 2009 would have been about $5.2 trillion, or 37 percent of gross domestic product. Instead, it was $7.5 trillion, or 53 percent of G.D.P. (it now stands at 60 percent).
The center estimates that if tax cuts and other current policies continue, debt would equal 90 percent of G.D.P. by 2020 -- with 20 percent of that debt attributable to forgone revenue from extending the tax cuts. The truth is, the Bush tax cuts were not affordable when they were passed and they are not affordable now.
Tax cuts for low-, middle- and upper-middle-income taxpayers should be temporarily extended because those taxpayers tend to spend most of their income and the economy needs consumer spending. That would cost roughly $140 billion next year, but the spur to the economy is more important than the budgetary impact.
Tax cuts for the rich can safely be allowed to expire because wealthy taxpayers tend to save rather than spend their tax savings. The revenue from letting these expire -- nearly $40 billion next year -- would be better spent on job-creating measures.
As the economy recovers, addressing deficits and debt will require tax reform to, finally, craft a new system that is both equitable and capable of bringing in enough revenue to pay for government.
If the middle-class tax cuts are made ''permanent,'' as President Obama has called for, we fear Congress will never have the political will to do what is needed.
Which comes back to this year's deadline. Instead of dodging their responsibility, serious lawmakers could strike a bargain, the first of many that will be needed to put the nation's fiscal house in order. Let the high-end Bush tax cuts expire, extend the other tax cuts for another two years or so, and in the meantime, undertake tax reform. There is no time like the present.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (65%); BABY BOOMERS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



587 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: The Web as a Store Window

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- Retailers have been flailing about a bit in their efforts to get people to shop again, deploying all sorts of gimmicks and promotions to spur customer spending.
Wal-Mart hoped that deeper cuts in its standard rollbacks would be a draw, but then said the prices went too low. At Saks, perhaps customers would go for designer labels if the lines offered less-expensive items. And for Macy's, how about inexpensive clothes by Madonna?
The secret, at least for Nordstrom, has not involved a piercing insight into a customer's mind. Rather, it has changed the way that it handles, of all things, inventory. And that has brought the department store more success in improving sales than at most of its competitors, whose recent reports signaled that their consumers were still cautious.
The change works this way: Say that a shopper was looking at a blue Marc Jacobs handbag at Nordstrom.com. She could see where it was available at nearby stores, and reserve it for pickup the same day. 
More significant, if the Web warehouse was out of that bag, it did not matter. Inventory from Nordstrom's 115 regular stores is also included. Maybe there was just one handbag left in the entire company, sitting forlornly in the back of the Roosevelt Field store -- it would be displayed online and store employees would ship it to the Web customer.
What Nordstrom did on its Web site -- displaying stock from both the Web warehouse and its stores all at once, was unusual. And that, said Jamie Nordstrom, president of Nordstrom Direct, drove ''some pretty meaningful results.''
In fact, Nordstrom, based in Seattle, has been the department store with one of the best improvements in same-store sales over the last year, when its overall sales reached $8.26 billion. While it may not seem revolutionary, a melding of Web site and store is surprisingly rare in the retailing world.
''You're talking about traditional retailers that have traditional ways of doing things, and sometimes those barriers are hard to break down,'' said Adrianne Shapira, an analyst at Goldman Sachs.
Wal-Mart has added a feature where online shoppers can ship items to nearby stores, and Target.com shows which stores carry which items, but customers cannot buy them in advance.
Among Nordstrom's competitors, such fluidity is hard to find, Ms. Shapira said. ''I don't see anyone going to the length they are,'' she said of Nordstrom. In the 11 months since Nordstrom made the inventory change, its same-store sales -- sales at stores open more than a year, a crucial measure in retail -- have outperformed the department store average measured by Thomson Reuters.
In those 11 months, Nordstrom's same-store sales increased by an average of 8 percent. In the 11 months before the shift, they decreased an average of 11.9 percent. (The improvement is not all because of the inventory change -- the economy improved, and Nordstrom made other operating changes.)
Nordstrom began overhauling its online approach two years ago, adding the option to shop and buy online and pick up the item in a store. ''It was the first thing that we did, because the No. 1 call we got at our call center was, 'Hey, I'm looking at this item online, can I look at it at my store?' '' Mr. Nordstrom said.
The company was also trying to increase the number of people who shopped at Nordstrom in more than one way, since those so-called multichannel shoppers spend four times, on average, what a one-source shopper does, Mr. Nordstrom said.
Inventory was a big issue, too. If Nordstrom.com did not have the item someone wanted, it was not as if the customer would wait for the company to restock it, Mr. Nordstrom said. ''If we don't have it, you're going to go back to Google and say, 'Who else has it?' '' he said. ''We have 115 full-line stores out there -- chances are one of them has it.''
In September 2009, the company wove in individual stores' inventory to the Web site, so that essentially all of the stores were also acting as warehouses for online.
Results were immediate. The percentage of customers who bought merchandise after searching for an item on the site doubled on the first day, and has stayed there (although, Mr. Nordstrom cautioned, that doubling was from a small base).
''Customers that were looking for an item, we had their size,'' he said. That meant the company hired a few more shipping employees to wrap and send items from each store. But, he said, increased sales more than offset the cost.
It also means that inventory is moving faster, and often at higher prices. ''If we're out of something on the Web site, it's probably late in the season and the stores are trying to clear it out,'' he said. ''By pulling merchandise from the store, you've now dramatically lessened the likelihood that you'll take a markdown.''
Nordstrom's inventory turnover, which measures how quickly a company goes through inventory in a given year, went to 5.41 in 2009 from 4.84 in 2005, a five-year high.
''The health of our business when we're turning faster versus turning slower, it's night and day,'' Mr. Nordstrom said.
Keith Jelinek, director in the global retail practice at the consulting firm AlixPartners, said that Nordstrom's changes could give it a competitive advantage, but showing accurate inventory information to customers was difficult.
''The customer ordering via the Web site is not concerned with where the product is, only that it is in stock,'' Mr. Jelinek said in an e-mail message, but that could easily go wrong if a sales clerk entered an incorrect item number, which would ''incorrectly display what the customer could see online. While, for the retailer, their financial inventory is still accurate.''
On Saturday, Nordstrom introduced an updated Web site, trying to make it more interesting for customers and easier to navigate.
The new site adds editorial features, like blogs about fashion and videos and photos of Nordstrom customers showing the clothes they chose for work and for weddings. Mr. Nordstrom said the company drew from sites like Net-a-Porter, which combine magazinelike stories with shopping. The site will also allow customers to post messages or photos. While customers are no doubt swamped with social-networking options already, Mr. Nordstrom pointed to the more than 120,000 product reviews added to Nordstrom.com since that feature was introduced last fall.
The company has also improved how shoppers can search for products, allowing searches with multiple criteria -- check boxes allow someone to search for, say, a purple cocktail dress under $150 for a curvy figure.
Web-design experts asked to review the site were split on its success. Martin Zagorsek, a partner at Launch Collective, a fashion-business consulting firm, said that the editorial features did not promote the products mentioned within them, which was ''a no-brainer.''
But Andy Rhodes, director for commerce at the marketing firm SapientNitro, said that Nordstrom had long been ahead of the game on the digital-to-physical connection, ''and it's nice to see they've brought that capability to the forefront with the new Nordstrom.com.''
All the changes, Mr. Nordstrom said, were about satisfying customers, but that translated into profits.
''We can sell more without having to buy more inventory,'' he said. ''That plays through to margins and, ultimately, earnings.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Employees at Nordstrom's flagship store in Seattle can check online for available merchandise at any location. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Merchandise being processed at the 600,000-square-foot Nordstrom Contact and Fulfillment Center in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. The center ships an average of 20,000 packages a day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM SLOSIAREK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); WEB SITES (64%)

COMPANY: NORDSTROM INC (86%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: JWN (NYSE) (86%); GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (86%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (86%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (86%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (78%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



588 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: A Short Second Life For a Noted Building

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
This is the second of a two-part On the Records series examining the 2007 sale of the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society's former headquarters at 122 East 58th Street to a celebrity-studded Long Island synagogue. The $24 million deal has not gone as planned for either party. On Sunday, we looked at the transaction from the seller's side. Today, we look at the experience of the buyer.
Rabbi Marc Schneier comes from a long line of prominent rabbis, stretching back 18 generations.
His father, Rabbi Arthur Schneier, did the honors when Pope Benedict XVI visited New York in 2008 and wanted a distinguished synagogue to host the first visit by a Roman Catholic pontiff to a Jewish place of worship in the United States. 
Safe to say, the younger Rabbi Schneier has the better tan but is no less ambitious. He helped start a foundation currently working to improve Muslim-Jewish relations, much as his father reached out to Catholic leaders, and 20 years ago he took the family business to a new frontier by starting an Orthodox synagogue in Westhampton Beach, N.Y.
Recognizing that the well-to-do vacationers he would meet there might have matters besides religion on their mind, he brought in world-class cantorial music and lavish catered spreads. Most important, he rolled out the welcome mat to make his synagogue an inclusive place.
Though it might have seemed like a risky venture at the time, other rabbis only wish they had been so foolish. Today, the Hampton Synagogue draws as many as 1,000 worshipers to its weekend services, and standing-room-only events are common.
It is the kind of place where Ronald S. Lauder, the billionaire, and Russell Simmons, the hip-hop mogul, drop in. Congregants took it in stride when a biblical zoo in Jerusalem named a lion last year after their rabbi in honor of his 50th birthday and when their cantor, Dudu Fisher, landed the part of Jean Valjean in 1993 in the Broadway production of ''Les Miserables.''
Each fall, the Hampton Synagogue winds down its affairs for several months as its members pack up summer homes and return to the city, the Palm Beaches and elsewhere. At some point, Rabbi Schneier convinced his board that the congregation needed a communal place to worship in the ''off-season'' and a way to keep the conversation going back in New York.
''The whole point was to bring the Hampton energy to New York,'' he said. ''So we had Israeli ambassadors, Israeli ministers, Russ Simmons, New York congressmen and women. You never knew who would join us.''
Starting in late 2003, he rented space on the ground floor of a five-story building owned by the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society at 122 East 58th Street. The rabbi, who spent four years working for Harry Helmsley, the late real estate tycoon, on a break from the rabbinate, said he liked that the building was within walking distance of several hotels, a selling point for observant Jews in town for the weekend and in need of a place to pray. Though the start-up was legally an affiliate of the Hampton Synagogue, the name on the door said the New York Synagogue.
Three winters passed, and, in 2006, the society notified the synagogue that the building was for sale.
Rabbi Schneier's congregants negotiated a $24 million deal, which was closed in the summer of 2007, once the genealogical society secured the necessary approvals for its part of the bargain.
The New York Synagogue enjoyed one additional winter in the building it now owned but the rabbi soon had to curb his enthusiasm. The falling stock market and the soft economy made him realize that his congregants might not be in a position to cover the new mortgage payments, let alone $5 million to $10 million in renovations he thought the 24,000-square-foot space demanded.
The poor economy also led him to abandon hope of finding a business partner. Initially, he said, he hoped to bring in a kosher caterer who could promote the building as a smart destination for events and share the upkeep. ''That was always the vision,'' the rabbi said, ''to have this very beautiful banquet center and facility that would also have a sanctuary component. It was a terrific vision, and that's when the economy softened, and there's no way the synagogue could have ventured into this on its own.''
With little fanfare, the building was sold again. The closing took place in early 2009, once the synagogue obtained the blessing of its membership, its board - and a state judge in Suffolk County whose permission was also sought in an abundance of caution.
The buyer was an Israeli group called Mosdot Shuva Israel that operates yeshivas, synagogues and community initiatives overseas but was having to make do with rented space here in New York since 2002. The group's Sephardic founder, Rabbi Yoshiyau Yosef Pinto, is a press-shy spiritual adviser who turned up recently on blogs and gossip pages discussing business with LeBron James, the basketball player. On a yacht.
The agreed-upon price, back when the papers were signed in August 2008, was $28.5 million. A spokeswoman for Mosdot, Caren Browning, said that the continuing drop in the market might have opened a door to renegotiate the price, but that the group ''respectfully adhered to Jewish law and did not break the bargain, despite the economic changes.'' So far, the building continues to be used as a synagogue. The main hall even has a fresh coat of paint that resembles marbling and a giant new chandelier designed in Israel and made in China.
The roughly $2.5 million that the Hampton Synagogue made, after various mortgages and fees were taken care of, has been put aside for the synagogue's long-term needs, according to Seymour G. Siegel, the synagogue's treasurer.
''That's the irony of the whole thing,'' the rabbi said. For all the to and fro, the Hampton Synagogue ''is in a very healthy financial position. We have no mortgages on any of our properties. We have a healthy endowment. We are able to pay our bills and meet our annual budget.''
Rabbi Schneier said no one should write off the New York Synagogue, either, even as it goes dark this winter. ''The future of the New York Synagogue is T.B.D. - to be determined. It's not over. I'm on sabbatical, and then we'll see what the future brings.''
Technically, the sabbatical he is citing will not begin until after the Jewish holidays this fall. He expects to use the months he will be off to finish a book he is writing with Imam Shamsi Ali, a prominent New York cleric, about troubling texts in the Torah and the Koran. If congregants need him in the interim, he promises to be there for them.
''I'm on call 365 days a year 24/7,'' he said, ''or should I say 24/6?''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); BEACHES (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); RAP MUSIC (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); HIP HOP CULTURE (65%); THEATER (50%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



589 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Weight of Bush Ties Is Disputed in Ohio Race

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
MAUMEE, Ohio -- As he travels through Ohio, Rob Portman, the Republican Senate candidate, talks to economically stressed voters incessantly about jobs -- how to keep existing ones and create new ones for workers who have seen opportunities vanish as businesses cut back or pulled out of this once-proud manufacturing hub.
Yet it is jobs held by Mr. Portman himself that have drawn attention from Lt. Gov. Lee Fisher, his opponent, and other Democrats. First there was Mr. Portman's stint as his party's Congressional liaison to President George W. Bush. Then he served as the Bush administration's trade representative. Next was his tenure as Mr. Bush's budget director.
In a year when Democrats want to blunt Republican momentum by reminding voters that the hard economic times and sharp rise in federal spending started on Mr. Bush's watch, Mr. Portman would appear to be at a distinct disadvantage. Short of Mr. Bush himself being on the ballot, it is hard to imagine another candidate who could so easily be painted as the personification of the Bush years and policies -- or of the Democratic argument that a vote for a Republican in the midterm elections is a vote to turn Washington back over to the very people who got the country into its current problems. 
But in a troubling sign for Democrats bent on Bush-bashing their way to victory, Mr. Portman, 54, appears to be doing just fine in a race Democrats initially saw as one of their best chances to take over a seat now held by a Republican. Mr. Portman and Mr. Fisher are running to replace Senator George V. Voinovich, who is retiring.
Recent polls have shown Mr. Portman, who is also a former House member, moving ahead of Mr. Fisher, who has undergone campaign staff turmoil. Mr. Portman held a huge financial advantage as of June 30, with $7 million more on hand than his rival. Among his contributors were the elder President George Bush and his wife, Barbara; former Vice President Dick Cheney; and numerous other Bush-era veterans who gave hundreds of thousands of dollars.
After a tour here of the Andersons Inc., a diversified grain, rail and retail company that is a mainstay in northwestern Ohio, Mr. Portman dismissed suggestions that his time in the Bush White House and his image as a trusted adviser to the former president would be a significant liability or that voters would even be concerned about the past.
''What the people in this plant want to know is what you are going to do for me going forward,'' Mr. Portman said. ''That is all they care about, and frankly that's what voters care about.''
''The world has moved on,'' he added. ''Maybe the Democrats haven't.''
Democrats are certainly not ready to move on in Mr. Portman's case. They say they intend to make his record in the Bush administration a central element of the political argument against him.
''Rob Portman is the No. 1 George Bush look-alike in the country,'' Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio and a Fisher supporter, said in an interview. ''I just can't believe the voters are going to choose the candidate who more than anybody else in the whole country represents what got us into this situation.''
And though Mr. Fisher does not now have the financial resources to go toe-to-toe, Democrats say they expect organized labor and the Ohio Democratic Party to help fill the gap as they push for Mr. Fisher as part of an aggressive coordinated effort in a closely divided state where Democrats are also seeking re-election for Gov. Ted Strickland and to hold on to a number of contested House seats.
With Ohio losing jobs overseas, Mr. Fisher said, Mr. Portman's support of free-trade policies merits special scrutiny.
''While you may have some other Senate candidates who supported George Bush's policies, there is only one who was actually the architect of those policies,'' Mr. Fisher said. ''There is factory after factory that is closed directly as a result of Congressman Portman's trade policies.''
Mr. Portman is one of two Republican Senate candidates whom Democrats are trying to turn into pin-ups to remind voters of what happened when Republicans were in control of the White House and Congress. The other is Representative Roy Blunt, the former No. 2 House Republican, who is mounting a strong election bid in Missouri.
Illustrating the Democratic investment in revisiting the Bush years, a new cable television advertisement paid for by the Democratic National Committee includes a clip of George W. Bush and asks voters if they want to ''go back to the same Republican policies that got us into this mess.''
Some analysts have questioned whether the anti-Bush theme is persuasive, and Mr. Portman said the Bush section of his resume was rarely raised by Ohioans while he was out campaigning. He sees voters as more focused on the escalating deficit and the days ahead.
Sent to Congress in a special election in 1993, Mr. Portman quickly became a young Republican star on budget and tax issues and was well-liked on both sides of the aisle because of his affability and willingness to work with the opposition. Considering that he started out as an associate counsel in the White House of the elder President Bush, Mr. Portman was a natural fit with the younger Mr. Bush, and even served as a stand-in for Al Gore during presidential debate preparations in 2000.
He left Congress in 2005 to become the trade representative for the Bush White House. One year later, he took over as director of the Office of Management and Budget before returning to Ohio in 2007.
He readily concedes that Republicans let spending get away from them, though he defends his own record, saying he pushed for more disclosure of earmarks, helped cut the deficit while at the budget office and persuaded the president to threaten to veto swollen spending bills.
''After 9/11, people took their eye off spending,'' Mr. Portman said. ''Democrats got their social spending, and Republicans were more focused on national security and homeland security.''
He makes no apologies for his support of free trade, saying Ohio companies and farmers need overseas markets.
''That is the whole point of our proposals on trade: increasing exports and increasing enforcement so you have a level playing field so you can export more,'' he said. ''It is critical to Ohio's economy.''
Though Mr. Portman is running well, Democrats say they still see a solid chance for victory. They say the fact that polls still show the race as competitive despite Mr. Portman's money advantage and the overall favorable political atmosphere for Republicans is evidence that his ties to the Bush administration are hurting him.
''He is doing his best to run away from his own biography,'' said Mr. Fisher, who accused Mr. Portman and other veteran Republicans of trying to gloss over their culpability in getting the nation off course.
''They are denying they were at the scene of the crime,'' Mr. Fisher said. ''I don't think it will work.''
STATE IN PLAY; The Bush Resume: This is part of a series of articles looking at House and Senate races in the battleground state of Ohio and other developments there that highlight the forces shaping politics in the 2010 midterm campaign.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rob Portman, left, the Republican candidate for Senate in Ohio, on a visit to the Andersons, a grain, rail and retail company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MCGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Portman has been criticized over his tenure as trade representative and budget director for President George W. Bush. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); BULK SHIPPING (50%)

COMPANY: ANDERSONS INC (63%)

TICKER: ANDE (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532411 COMMERCIAL AIR, RAIL & WATER TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (63%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (63%); NAICS311119 OTHER ANIMAL FOOD MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (63%); SIC4741 RENTAL OF RAILROAD CARS (63%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ROB PORTMAN (92%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



590 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Graft Dispute In Afghanistan Is Test for U.S.

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND and MARK MAZZETTI; Rod Nordland reported from Kabul, and Mark Mazzetti from Washington. Charlie Savage and Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- As corruption investigations begin to focus on President Hamid Karzai's inner circle, an Afghan official on Monday pinned blame for endemic corruption in Afghanistan on foreign contractors, which he said had created an ''economic mafia'' in the war-torn country.
What started as the arrest of a little-known Karzai aide has become a significant test of the Obama administration's efforts to root out corruption in Afghanistan, even as it tries not to alienate the Karzai government. The two goals are coming into conflict at a time when American popular support for the war is eroding and frustration in Congress about the Karzai government is rising.
The investigations that led to the arrest last month of the aide, Mohammed Zia Saleh, a member of Afghanistan's National Security Council, are being carried out by Afghan investigators who are strongly backed by the United States. Mr. Karzai admitted Sunday that he had personally intervened to secure the release of the aide and said he would impose new rules governing the investigators. 
Some United States officials and outside experts warned that the escalating tensions between Washington and Kabul could undermine the overall American strategy in Afghanistan, aimed at combating Taliban militias and strengthening government institutions before a planned American military withdrawal beginning next summer.
''The administration is engaged in a delicate balancing act in Afghanistan in which the principal objective is stability,'' said David Rothkopf, a former Clinton administration official and national security specialist. ''There are a couple of things they need for stability: one is government institutions that people trust and don't want to overthrow. And the other is government institutions that are strong enough politically to survive.
''And the calculation here is that you need Karzai for the latter and you need anticorruption for the former. The problem is that Karzai is too associated with corruption,'' Mr. Rothkopf said, ''so if the anticorruption efforts are too vigorous, they will lead to undermining this ally.''
At a news conference on Monday, Waheed Omar, Mr. Karzai's spokesman, elaborated on criticisms made by the Afghan president during an interview with ABC News on Sunday, and blamed foreign contractors spending Western reconstruction money for much of Afghanistan's corruption. He said that the new government rules would rein in the two American-backed anticorruption agencies, the Major Crimes Task Force and the Sensitive Investigative Unit.
By the end of the day, however, the presidential palace had not issued the decree.
Officials in the United States government said they were not sure what to make of the statements by Mr. Karzai and the spokesman.
''It's perfectly understandable that as these new tools develop, the Afghan government needs to ensure that they are functioning under the rule of law and the Afghan Constitution,'' said P. J. Crowley, a State Department spokesman. ''But going forward, these entities must be able to open investigations and aggressively pursue facts wherever they may lead without looking over their shoulders.''
The Obama administration has made fighting corruption in Afghanistan a mainstay of its policy here, and the two new agencies have been particularly successful in apprehending corruption suspects, with at least 52 people now in custody on graft and drug trafficking charges.
Despite widespread allegations of corruption involving President Karzai's relatives, including his half brother Ahmed Wali Karzai, investigators have not taken action against any family members. The perception that Mr. Karzai intended to scuttle the two agencies has caused one of the most serious crises in American-Afghan relations since last year's presidential elections, which international observers denounced as fraudulent.
The two anticorruption agencies have broad powers to arrest, detain and try suspects, and both have large components of American advisers.
''There will be no political interference, but we don't want anyone taken out of their homes with chains and shackles,'' Mr. Omar said, describing Mr. Karzai's promised new rules. The rules, he said, would ensure that ''neither Afghanistan's government nor the international community will interfere in their work, which will be based on Afghanistan's Constitution and judicial sovereignty.''
Some law enforcement officials suggested that Afghan officials may simply be unfamiliar with routine law-enforcement techniques now being used by the elite anticorruption units.
The current turbulence traces back to the spring of 2009, when the United States Justice Department began several major initiatives to help build up the Afghan government's anticorruption and counternarcotics law enforcement efforts, as well as an independent judiciary. To protect them from political interference, the two anticorruption task forces have their own lawyers, investigators and judges.
In an interview on Monday, Drug Enforcement Administration officials praised the growing capabilities of the Sensitive Investigative Unit, which consists of several dozen Afghan police officers overseen by an Afghan police colonel.
The D.E.A. vetted the officers and brought them to Quantico, Va., for a six-week training course. Veteran D.E.A. agents, serving as advisers, work together with them in Afghanistan.
''We don't just train them and then never see them again,'' said Frankie Shroyer, the deputy chief of operations for the D.E.A. Still, the degree of involvement by United States officials in the work of the Afghan units is a matter of acute diplomatic sensitivity. D.E.A. officials emphasized that the relationship is a partnership with the Afghan government, and that Afghan officials direct all counternarcotics police activities.
''Everything is done in conjunction with Afghan counterparts,'' said Thomas M. Harrigan, the D.E.A.'s chief of operations.
Some American officials acknowledged the administration's concern about Mr. Karzai's seeming defiance of anticorruption inquiries, but also the limits to what the United States can do.
Earlier this year, Obama administration officials adopted a new strategy in dealing with the Karzai government. Instead of continuing to regularly criticize the Afghan government for failing to root out corruption, the administration decided to back off and publicly praise Mr. Karzai and his aides.
Still, some experts said that the previous ''tough love'' strategy had fostered paranoia inside the presidential palace in Kabul, leading Mr. Karzai to conclude the United States was trying to push him out. ''We had a year and a half making Karzai convinced that he has to tighten ties with these corrupt people in order to survive,'' said Ronald E. Neumann, the American ambassador to Kabul from 2005 to 2007.
Mr. Neumann said that the July 2011 date for the beginning of a military withdrawal from Afghanistan has only reinforced Mr. Karzai's belief that he must cut deals with unsavory but powerful figures to remain in charge after the Americans leave.
''You can't ignore the corruption, but you can't ignore the fact that Karzai sees some of it as vital to his survival,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TALIBAN (79%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); ARRESTS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



591 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Yen's Lesson for the Yuan

BYLINE: By JOSEPH A. MASSEY and LEE M. SANDS. 
Joseph A. Massey and Lee M. Sands, partners in an investment advisory and consulting firm, were the chief trade negotiators with China at the Office of the United States Trade Representative from 1985 to 1992 and 1992 to 1997, respectively.

 BODY:
AMONG the many points of tension between the United States and China, perhaps the single greatest one concerns exchange rates. For more than a decade, Beijing has kept the value of the renminbi, also known as the yuan, more or less constant to the dollar, a strategy that critics say increases the price of American exports to China and fuels the rapidly growing trade deficit with Beijing.
Despite its decision to let the yuan rise 21 percent against the dollar between 2005 and 2008, China has remained a favorite target of Congress. Democrats and Republicans have consistently called for punitive action against China, including sanctions on imports, unless it completely de-links the two currencies. 
Lost in the noise, however, is the question of whether de-linkage would actually have any effect on the trade deficit. On this, the United States' 40-year history of pressuring Japan to let the yen appreciate against the dollar is instructive. It indicates that de-linking the yuan would make barely a dent in America's trade deficit. Luckily, this history also points to a different, more effective way for the United States to benefit from China's economic growth.
The Japanese story began in August 1971 when, with the American economy under strong inflationary pressure, President Richard Nixon took the dollar off the gold standard, letting its value fall.
At the same time, with our trade and current-account balances going from surplus to deficit because of rapid export growth in Germany and Japan, President Nixon began pushing the other industrialized countries to allow their currencies to appreciate. With Japan -- whose yen was fixed at 360 to the dollar -- Nixon played hardball, temporarily imposing a 10-percent surcharge on imports and banning soybean exports to the country.
The strategy worked. That December Japan and nine other countries agreed to let their currencies fluctuate against the dollar within a narrow range of exchange rates. The yen shot up to 315 by the end of the month.
Still our trade deficit with Japan continued to grow. At the end of 1970 it stood at $1.2 billion; by the end of 1972, with the yen at 302 to the dollar, it was $4.1 billion.
Thanks to changes in the global economy, the multilateral currency agreement soon failed, and this allowed the value of the yen to continue rising. By 2006 it stood at 119 to the dollar -- more than three times as expensive as in 1971 -- and yet the deficit hit an all-time high of $90 billion.
What happened? Whatever effect yen revaluation might have had was outweighed by two far more potent forces: American consumers' insatiable demand for Japanese products and Japanese producers' ability to cut their costs and stay competitive. There is no reason to believe that things would be any different with Chinese goods today.
So, might it work to instead use tariffs to make American goods more competitive in China? Probably not. The problem is that the United States lacks the domestic industry to make many of the things we currently buy from China. And China would retaliate with tariffs of its own, hurting our exports to the country, which have recently been growing faster than those to anywhere else.
Fortunately, there are other ways to deal with our trade deficit with Beijing. For one, America could substantially increase its exports, a goal embraced by the Obama administration's National Export Initiative, which calls for doubling American exports in five years.
This initiative focuses on the 99 percent of American companies that do business exclusively within the domestic market. Many of them are in sectors where our technology leads the world -- like biomedical and clean-tech products. Many of these companies are too small to move into the global market on their own, but with federal support they could significantly raise American exports.
For maximum effectiveness, President Obama should pair his export initiative with a push for China and other countries to increase their direct investment in the United States. Here again, our history with Japan is instructive.
As Japan's surplus with America ballooned during the 1970s and '80s, its companies began building factories and making other substantial investments in the United States as a hedge against protectionist measures -- after all, tariffs wouldn't apply to products made by Japanese companies here. This was a boon for the American economy: through 2007, Japan had invested almost $260 billion, supporting more than 600,000 jobs.
Chinese companies should be persuaded to do the same today. American purchases of Chinese goods have helped create vast pools of Chinese capital, and we should do all we can to bring that money back home.
Fighting China over the yuan is a losing battle. There are better ways to use the global economy, and China's rapid growth, to put money into the pockets of American workers.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



592 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: A Magazine Now Tailored To the Not Necessarily Retired

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
WHEN Nancy Perry Graham, the editor of AARP The Magazine, attended a Bruce Springsteen concert at Giants Stadium in New Jersey last October, she and several editors on her staff wore black T-shirts with the words ''AARP The Magazine -- Rocking Generations of Readers'' printed on the back.
On the front was the current issue of the magazine, featuring the rocker on stage with the headline, ''The Boss Turns 60.'' But as Ms. Graham, who is 55, said in a column in a subsequent issue, not everyone encountered at the concert shared her staff's enthusiasm, most notably a woman in her 60s who said, ''But why would you want people to know you're old?'' 
For Ms. Graham, being born before the Kennedy administration is nothing to be ashamed of, and celebrities like Mr. Springsteen are increasingly happy to appear on the magazine's cover. (''I used to be on the cover of Rolling Stone,'' Ms. Graham quotes Mr. Springsteen saying from the stage of the concert, ''but now I'm on the cover of AARP The Magazine!'')
There was a time when editors at the magazine -- published bimonthly by the organization that advocates for Americans over 50 -- fully expected AARP-eligible celebrities to reach for a 10-foot pole when invited to appear on the cover, but Ms. Graham said in a recent interview that the magazine has in the last few years ''reached a tipping point where we've had A-list celebrities coming to us to be on the magazine.''
In fact, publicists for the current cover model, the actor Dennis Quaid, 56, approached the magazine, said Ms. Graham, saying that Mr. Quaid was primarily interested in speaking on behalf of victims of medical errors after his own 12-day-old twins nearly died when both were inadvertently given overdoses.
It turns out that the AARP magazine, which assures readers that they are in their glory years, is itself remarkably spry, never mind the economic downturn. The magazine sold $23.9 million in advertising in the second quarter of 2010, compared with $20.9 million during the same period in 2009, an increase of 14.5 percent, according to the Magazine Publishers of America.
During that same period, among roughly 235 major magazines, revenues grew 6.2 percent. As for the number of advertising pages sold, the AARP magazine was up 10.4 percent in the second quarter over last year, compared with an average page increase of just 1.1 percent for magazines overall.
Mailed free to AARP members, it has the largest circulation of any magazine, distributing 24.4 million copies each issue in 2009, more than three times that of Reader's Digest, which has the third largest distribution, with 7.6 million.
(An issue-oriented AARP publication, AARP Bulletin, had circulation of 24.2 million.)
AARP now includes within its eligibility range the majority of baby boomers -- those born from 1946 to 1964 -- making them, in a bit of symmetry, 46 to 64 years old. And the magazine, which in an earlier incarnation was called Modern Maturity and struck a more geriatric tone, now tends to feature on its cover celebrities on the younger side, including the actress Valerie Bertinelli (50) and Dr. Mehmet Oz (50).
Formerly known as the American Association of Retired Persons, the organization started going solely by its acronym a decade ago, and to say it represents retired people today is largely a misnomer: about half of its 40 million members are still working. (Membership exceeds the magazine's circulation because only one issue is sent to a household.)
The current issue of the magazine (September/October) unveils a redesign that is decidedly contemporary, with more white space, short articles that tend not to jump to another page, and numerous referrals to the Web site (aarp.org/magazine), which also has been revamped.
Channels on the Web site recently expanded to 13 from seven, including one channel for technology, debunking the perception that older Americans are not computer literate. In fact, 46 percent of boomers were on a social media network in 2009, up from 30 percent in 2007, according to eMarketer, a research firm.
In a recent study, Nielsen determined that boomers account for 38.5 percent of purchases of consumer goods, yet only 5 percent of advertising expenditures are currently aimed at those ages 35 to 64.
''Today's middle-aged and older consumers are different than their predecessors,'' said a post about the study on Nielsen's Web site. ''The conventional wisdom that they spend little, resist technology and are slow to adopt new products needs to be re-assessed. Boomers are an affluent group who adopt technology with enthusiasm.''
While AARP previously catered to different ages of its membership with different publications (in 2002 it introduced a publication called My Generation aimed at those 55 and under while sending Modern Maturity to those over 55), today it sends AARP The Magazine to all members, but sends slightly different versions to those 50 to 59, 60 to 69, and over 70.
In the current issue, the 70-plus version substitutes an article about hearing aids for one about hotel-branded merchandise in the other versions.
It also substitutes an advice column about changing careers at 51 with one about writing a novel, and an article about maintaining a strong marriage is accompanied by a modified illustration by Kagan McLeod of a couple sitting against a tree that bears their carved initials. (The illustration for older readers features a man who is bald rather than graying, a woman wearing a long skirt rather than jeans and, resting between them, a cane.)
''AARP has garnered this enormous audience and gets the buying power of this demographic,'' said Lori Hiltz, executive vice president of the Chicago office of MPG, a division of Havas. She previously served as a senior vice president at the PHD unit of Omnicom in Detroit, where she worked on a campaign for the Jeep division of Chrysler, which is still running in the magazine.
Unlike the previous generation, ''the 50-plus consumers coming into the segment now have adopted new technology, are more likely to have a college education, and have a greater depth of discretionary income,'' Ms. Hiltz said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dennis Quaid, 56, was on the cover of AARP The Magazine to publicize the issue of medical errors. The magazine's cover subjects have become somewhat younger and its articles have a less geriatric tone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); CELEBRITIES (88%); POP & ROCK (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



593 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Firing Back at Critics, and Obama, Rangel Says His Dignity Is Just Fine

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
It was a gentle but unmistakable nudge President Obama gave Representative Charles B. Rangel recently, suggesting in an interview three weeks ago that Mr. Rangel, 80, should retire to ''end his career with dignity.''
At a tense and sometimes fiery candidates' forum Monday night, Mr. Rangel shot back that it was not his dignity the president should be worried about.
''Frankly, he has not been around long enough to determine what my dignity is,'' Mr. Rangel said of the 49-year-old Mr. Obama. ''For the next two years, I will be more likely to protect his dignity.''
The unexpected eruption seemed to reflect the increasingly bitter relations between the embattled 20-term Democrat from Harlem and a president who is trying to protect his party's prospects in a difficult midterm election season. 
And it came during an uncomfortable evening for Mr. Rangel, who made a rare appearance with his five challengers and found himself facing harsh public attacks in front of his constituents at a Baptist church in the heart of his Harlem district.
Long accustomed to being showered with praise and accolades, and surrounded by friendly crowds who treated him like a folk hero, Mr. Rangel could not escape the controversy that has shaped his re-election bid: the 13 charges of ethical violations issued against him by a House panel last month, including hoarding below-market apartments and improper fund-raising.
The best known of his Democratic challengers, Adam Clayton Powell IV, accused Mr. Rangel of ''years and years of corruption.''
''Four rent-controlled apartments. Four!'' he yelled.
''It's a slap in the face to his community!'' Mr. Powell thundered.
Mr. Rangel, sitting a few feet away, fidgeted in his chair and fingered some papers, his eyes occasionally darting around the room.
But Mr. Powell did not let up, likening Mr. Rangel's ethics troubles to a rotting tree: ''To have good fruit, you must have a healthy tree. We no longer have a healthy tree, and we will no longer have good fruit.''
The candidates spoke in the sanctuary of the Convent Avenue Baptist Church in western Harlem. Organizers, including some tenants from Mr. Rangel's apartment complex, appeared determined to tilt the evening in Mr. Rangel's favor.
They announced unusual rules, just minutes before the forum began, barring photography and videotaping of the forum, ensuring that any heated moments or slip-ups by Mr. Rangel would not turn up later in a rival's political ads.
The format for the forum, laid out days ago, had originally called for all the candidates to stand on stage at once, putting them on equal footing. But at the last minute, the organizers e-mailed each campaign with a ''slight change'': Mr. Rangel would appear on his own, instead of sharing the podium with his challengers.
His rivals cried foul -- Mr. Powell called it ''the Democratic machine playing tricks'' -- but they relented.
The crowd that gathered was pro-Rangel, too. At one point, Jonathan Tasini, a candidate and a labor activist, explained matter-of-factly that Mr. Rangel had accepted large sums of money from political action committees. The crowd erupted in boos and jeers. A woman in a straw hat stood up and wagged her finger at Mr. Tasini.
But Mr. Rangel's problems kept intruding.
Mr. Tasini told the crowd that, despite Mr. Rangel's best intentions, he had fallen victim to a culture in Washington that was awash with corporate money and lobbyists.
''The corruption that Congressman Rangel is a part of is being in Congress for 40 years,'' Mr. Tasini said.
Mr. Rangel's foes took pains to honor his 40-year career in Congress. But they made clear they thought it was time for a change. ''Yes, he has done some good. He has a legacy,'' Mr. Powell said.
''But he is no longer the chairman of the powerful Ways and Means Committee. He is no longer perceived as somebody that people in Congress want to work with.''
Mr. Rangel infused his own remarks with his typical sarcasm and combativeness, taking a jab at those who had called on him to step aside, especially Mr. Powell.
''Adam, is he here?'' Mr. Rangel said, quickly surveying the room. ''He truly believes that I should resign, so that somebody else should take my place.''
The crowd interrupted: ''No!''
''He is the only one to say this,'' Mr. Rangel continued. ''I think it's creative.
''But if it's O.K. with my doctor, I am going to serve the next two years.''
Mr. Rangel also railed against the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, saying American soldiers would not be there if not for the country's voracious appetite for oil, and mocked Republicans in Congress for trying to block the president's agenda.
And while some Democrats have said that he is creating an embarrassment for his party by refusing to step down, Mr. Rangel declared, ''I won't step aside when the people of my district believe this is what I should be doing.''
While Mr. Powell, whose father once held the seat, was aggressive, the other candidates challenging Mr. Rangel were more subtle, though they echoed his essential message: Mr. Rangel's era was over.
''Everyone has their time,'' said Joyce S. Johnson, a former field director in New York for Mr. Obama's presidential campaign in 2008. ''There is a need for a new perspective, out-of-the-box thinking.''
The other participants were Vince Morgan, a banker, and Craig Schley, a community activist; all are running as Democrats, except for Mr. Schley, who is campaigning as an independent.
In a brief interview after the forum, Mr. Rangel elaborated on his remarks about Mr. Obama, making clear he did not believe anyone so junior to him had any place weighing in on his long career and stature.
''My dignity is 80 years old,'' he said. ''How can somebody so much younger tell me how to leave with dignity?''
Asked how it felt to be publicly attacked in his district by his rivals, he laughed, smiled and said, ''It's all part of the campaign.''
After the last candidate spoke, the crowd swarmed around the pinstripe-suited Mr. Rangel, who marched up the aisle, reaching out to shake hands, and offer kisses to women gathered in the pews.
He stopped briefly at the doors of the church to greet former Mayor David N. Dinkins, who has been an especially visible defender of Mr. Rangel, giving a middle finger to a protester at Mr. Rangel's birthday party this month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Charles B. Rangel at the Convent Avenue Baptist Church. The candidates' forum barred photographers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED OU/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Contenders: All are Democrats except Mr. Schley, who is running as an independent candidate.
Joyce S. Johnson AGE 62 EDUCATION B.S., Microbiology, Howard University. JOBS Former chief executive, Black Equity Alliance
field director in New York for Obama presidential campaign
executive assistant to New York City Schools Chancellor. ISSUE Supports legislation requiring equal pay for women.
Vince Morgan AGE 41 EDUCATION B.A., business management, University of Illinois at Chicago, master's degree in public administration, Columbia University. JOBS Community banker
chairman of the 125th Street Business Improvement District. ISSUE Backs term limits for members of Congress.
Adam Clayton Powell IV AGE 48 EDUCATION B.A., Howard University
J.D., Fordham University School of Law. JOBS Member, New York State Assembly, member New York City Council
Assistant district attorney in the Bronx. ISSUE Supports charter schools.
Charles B. Rangel AGE 80 EDUCATION B.A., New York University
J.D., St. John's University Law School. JOBS Member, U.S. House of Representatives, 15th District of New York
assistant U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York
member, New York State Assembly. ISSUE Supports legislation to restore the military draft.
Craig Schley AGE 46 EDUCATION New York University, degree in political science. JOBS Former model, onetime intern for Representative Rangel, former firefighter and electrician. Fought 125th Street rezoning project. ISSUE Addressing issue of high unemployment among blacks.
Jonathan Tasini AGE 53 EDUCATION B.A., University of California, Los Angeles. JOBS Co-founder, National Writers Union's Los Angeles chapter
 executive director of Labor Research Association. ISSUE Advocates a single-payer, government-sponsored health care, based on the current Medicare program. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ETHICS (87%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); RENT CONTROL (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (84%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (59%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (94%); BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



594 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Baseball Chases Leak Of Financial Documents

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Major League Baseball is narrowing down the search for who was behind the leaks of team financial reports that reveal how profitable the Pittsburgh Pirates are despite an 18-year string of losing records, and how much they, the Florida Marlins and the Tampa Bay Rays receive in revenue-sharing from wealthier clubs, according to a baseball executive who was not authorized to speak publicly.
The Pirates' financial statements were detailed Sunday by The Associated Press, and the statements of the Marlins, the Rays, the Seattle Mariners and the Los Angeles Angels were posted Monday by Deadspin.com. 
Major League Baseball officials declined to comment.
But David P. Samson, the president of the Marlins, said in a conference call that the release of the documents ''was a breach of fiduciary obligation and duty by the leaking party.''
He added, ''It's a crime, and it will be followed up intensely by Major League Baseball and its member clubs.''
Access to the teams' audited financial statements is usually limited to the commissioner's office; baseball's lead bankers, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase; and two accounting firms, Ernst & Young and PricewaterhouseCoopers. But Samson said that ''in the course of business, other entities have access.'' Teams do not see one another's financial reports, but receive a general accounting of where they rank compared with the other 29 clubs in profitability.
The leaking of team financial reports is a rarity. Few sports teams are publicly owned like the Green Bay Packers, who releases their financial results annually, and are under no obligation to make their results public. But sometimes, aspects of their profits and losses are revealed when they are sold or are involved in a lawsuit or a bankruptcy.
''If I were Major League Baseball, I'd be much more concerned if the Yankees' numbers were released,'' said Vince Gennaro, the author of ''Diamond Dollars: The Economics of Winning in Baseball'' and a consultant to several M.L.B. teams. ''It would present a dramatic disparity and you'd begin to wonder how you can retain an economic structure that allows teams to earn such disparate amounts of money.''
Had the statements provided only what the Rays, the Marlins and the Pirates received in revenue sharing, the leaks might be traced to someone disgruntled with the system of the higher-revenue clubs providing financial aid to those with lower revenue. But the leaked reports showed three teams that received money (the Marlins, the Rays and the Pirates) and two teams that paid into the pool (the Angels and the Mariners).
''There is a group of people ticked off that revenue-sharing money isn't being used to put a product out on the field, but in the owners' pockets and that would be parties related to the players,'' said Marc Ganis, a sports industry consultant. ''But I don't think the union has access to the audited financials.''
The documents offer various glimpses into the generally rosy financial state of five teams, regardless of their records.
The Pirates earned $29.4 million in 2007 and 2008 -- taking $69.3 million in revenue sharing at the same time. Although the Pirates have the lowest team payroll in baseball, they have chosen to use revenue sharing for player development, and they spent $44.3 million in 2007 and 2008. ''Even when we're winning, we will be a revenue-sharing recipient,'' Frank Coonelly, the Pirates' president, told the A.P.
The Marlins received nearly $92 million in revenue sharing in 2008 and 2009, the years detailed in the statements posted on Deadspin.com, while producing net income of $33 million in those years. The importance of the revenue-sharing money is underscored by the team's gate receipts in 2008 ($20.9 million) and 2009 ($21.5 million). The franchise was paid only $16.7 million in local media revenue last year, compared with the $45.9 million the Angels were paid that year and the $64.3 million that the Mariners received in 2008.
Samson said the Marlins' decision to maintain a modest payroll and trade a star like Miguel Cabrera after the 2007 season was to save money to help finance its $645 million, retractable-roof ballpark, which is to open in 2012. The team must pay about one-quarter of the cost, with Miami and Miami-Dade County providing the rest. ''We could have had Cabrera, but no ballpark,'' he said. ''That's what I tell fans.''
Earlier this year, the Marlins agreed to let baseball and the players' union monitor their finances for three years to make sure that that they are spending the proceeds from revenue sharing on player development and salaries. The agreement forestalled a potential grievance by the union.
The Rays received $74 million in revenue sharing in 2007 and 2008, and total net income in those years of a little more than $15 million. The effect of the Rays' playing in the 2008 World Series is evident in the $17.7 million in postseason receipts it collected, increasing total revenue that season to $160.1 million.
The Angels paid $31 million into the revenue-sharing pool in 2008 and 2009; the Mariners paid a little more than $24 million in 2007 and 2008. The Angels had combined earnings of $17.8 million in the two years covered in the reports; the Mariners lost $4.5 million in 2008 after showing a $17.9 million profit in 2007.
The leaked documents were no more than a disappointment to Samson. They back the team's case for its much-delayed ballpark. The information, he said, ''basically confirms what we've said about how we've operated the team, with an eye toward one thing: that baseball would be secure in South Florida.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Documents show the Pirates intend to use revenue-sharing money on developing players like Jameson Taillon, the team's top selection in the recent draft. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH SRAKOCIC/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B10)
 A rare bright spot: Freddy Sanchez in 2006, when he led the National League with a .344 batting average. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENE J. PUSKAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); AUDITS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); BUSINESS TORTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); LITIGATION (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); GREEN BAY PACKERS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (93%); FLORIDA MARLINS (90%); SEATTLE MARINERS (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



595 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Frank Talk About Care At Life's End

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
Legislators have begun to recognize the medical, humanitarian and economic value of helping terminally ill patients and their families navigate treatment options as they approach the end of life.
Last week, over the objections of New York State's medical society, Gov. David A. Paterson signed into law a bill -- the New York Palliative Care Information Act -- requiring physicians who treat patients with a terminal illness or condition to offer them or their representatives information about prognosis and options for end-of-life care, including aggressive pain management and hospice care as well as the possibilities for further life-sustaining treatment.
The Medical Society of the State of New York objected, saying that the new law would intrude ''unnecessarily upon the physician-patient relationship'' and mandate ''a legislatively designed standard of care.''
A similar provision in the original federal health care overhaul proposal, which would have reimbursed doctors for the time it takes to have such conversations, was withdrawn when it was erroneously labeled by conservatives as a ''death panel'' option. 
Also last week, a study in The New England Journal of Medicine reported that among 151 patients with newly diagnosed metastatic lung cancer, those who received palliative care, which is care focused on symptoms, along with standard cancer therapy had a better quality of life, experienced less depression, were less likely to receive aggressive end-of-life care and lived nearly three months longer than those who received cancer treatment alone.
The New York law was sponsored by Assemblyman Richard N. Gottfried and Senator Thomas K. Duane, both Democrats of Manhattan, at the request of Compassion and Choices of New York, an organization that seeks to improve end-of-life comfort care and reduce the agony often associated with dying in this era of costly can-do medicine.
The organization said the law addresses ''a major concern for terminally ill patients and their families, who often face the most important decision of their lives -- how to live their final days -- without being informed of their legal rights and medical options.'' The law obligates health care providers to volunteer information on a complete menu of care options -- if patients want to know about the options.
Tough Conversations
While some patients, especially those who are young or are the parents of young children, choose to pursue aggressive treatment for their diseases until their dying days, studies have shown that most terminally ill patients opt for comfort care after receiving honest information about their survival prospects and the benefits and risks of further disease-directed therapy.
For example, in a study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association in October 2008, Boston researchers found that patients who had end-of-life discussions with their physicians ''were more likely to accept that their illness was terminal, prefer medical treatment focused on relieving pain and discomfort over life-extending therapies, and have completed a do-not-resuscitate order.''
When compared with patients who had no such discussion, they were also more likely to be enrolled in outpatient hospice for more than a week and less likely to be placed on mechanical ventilators, or to be resuscitated if their hearts stopped, or to be admitted to intensive care units.
Contrary to fears that such discussions cause emotional harm to patients, the researchers reported that there was no increase in serious depression or worry and that the worst psychological distress occurred in patients and family members when end-of-life talks had not taken place. The poorest quality of life and worst bereavement adjustment resulted when patients received aggressive care during the last week of life, the researchers found.
The first author of the study, Dr. Alexi A. Wright, a medical oncologist at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, concluded that there was ''a need to increase the frequency'' of end-of-life conversations.The new law in New York, like a similar one in California, seeks to overcome physician resistance to talking frankly with terminally ill patients. Many studies have shown that such discussions can reduce costly aggressive yet futile treatments, improve the quality of remaining life for patients and their families and result in more dignified deaths unencumbered by medical technology.In a study published last year in the Archives of Internal Medicine, terminally ill patients who talked about hospice with their doctors were nearly three times as likely to take advantage of this service, which is covered by Medicare and is far less costly than aggressive hospital-based care.
More Yet to Be Done
Still, according to one palliative care expert, the law is not enough. Dr. Diane E. Meier, director of the Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York, said in an interview that the law does not help doctors and nurses acquire the expertise they need to hold meaningful end-of-life discussions with their patients. To increase competency in palliative care, she said, courses in medical and nursing schools and a continuing-education requirement for practicing physicians are essential.
''Doctors need to know how to identify when patients are on the decline, be able to initiate conversations with patients and/or family members, discuss what to expect in the future and the pros and cons of alternative care options, and know how to provide support as a patient's illness progresses,'' Dr. Meier said.
Another problem is the admittedly poor ability of physicians to determine a patient's remaining life expectancy, except perhaps when death is but a week or two away. Even with advanced cancer, when death may be most predictable, doctors are often wrong either because the disease follows an unexpected course or because doctors are reluctant to acknowledge their inability to delay death.
For any number of diseases that are considered terminal, like Alzheimer's disease or emphysema, patients can survive many years. Dr. Meier maintains that all patients, regardless of how near or far death may be, should be told about and receive palliative care whether or not they are treated for their underlying disease.
In an editorial accompanying the new report in The New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Meier and Dr. Amy S. Kelley wrote, ''Physicians tend to perceive palliative care as the alternative to life-prolonging or curative care -- what we do when there is nothing more that we can do -- rather than as a simultaneously delivered adjunct to disease-focused treatment.''
Palliative care should not be limited to terminally ill patients, Dr. Meier insists. ''Life-threatening illness, whether it can be cured or controlled, carries with it significant burdens of suffering for patients and their families and this suffering can be effectively addressed by modern palliative care teams. Perhaps unsurprisingly, reducing patients' misery may help them live longer.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 25, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Personal Health column on Tuesday, about discussions between doctors and patients regarding end-of-life care, described incorrectly the professional credentials of Dr. Alexi A. Wright of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and misstated her role in a 2008 study on the subject. She is a medical oncologist, not a palliative care specialist, and she was the first author of the study, not the leader of the research team. (Holly G. Prigerson was the lead investigator.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) (D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATH & DYING (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PALLIATIVE CARE (90%); CANCER (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ONCOLOGY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); HOSPICE (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); CHILDREN (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (71%); LUNG CANCER (65%)

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAL SOCIETY OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK (57%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010



596 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
GENERAL CITES U.S. GOALS
For Training Afghan Forces
The American commander in charge of building up Afghanistan's security forces said that in the next 15 months he would have to recruit and train 141,000 new soldiers and police officers -- more than the current size of the Afghan Army -- to meet President Obama's ambitious goals for getting Afghan forces to fight the war on their own. PAGE A4
AIDING ACID-BURN VICTIMS 
Cambodia, along with Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, has a history of acid attacks -- a rare and extreme form of revenge or punishment. An increase in the number of reported attacks in Cambodia, with 17 so far this year, has drawn attention to the country's only shelter for acid burn victims, on the outskirts of Phnom Penh. PAGE A9
National
AMBITIOUS OVERHAUL PLAN
For Schools Hits Delays
The Obama administration set an ambitious goal last year of overhauling 1,000 schools a year, using billions of dollars in federal stimulus money. Schools from Maine to California are starting the fall term with their overhaul plans postponed or in doubt because negotiations among federal regulators, state officials and local educators have led to delays and confusion. PAGE A13
Settlement in Bridge Collapse A11
Investigating Rig's Maintenance A14
New York
FUROR ON CENTER FUELS CALL
To Rebuild Razed Church
Former Gov. George E. Pataki and a Greek-American Congressional candidate from Long Island were joined at a news conference by officials of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America, who sought to use the controversy over plans to build an Islamic center two blocks from Ground Zero to focus attention on their long, stymied effort to rebuild a church destroyed on 9/11 at the foot of the World Trade Center. PAGE A16
Business
ROCHE BACKS NEW METHOD
For Drug Delivery
The Swiss pharmaceutical giant Roche is throwing its weight behind an experimental technology called ''stapled peptides'' that could be used to treat a number of diseases. The technology uses a stabilized form of peptides, which are small proteins, to deliver medicine inside cells for a variety of conditions. The method could include treatments for cancer and inflammation. PAGE B1
JAPAN'S WAR ON DEFLATION
Last week, the deflation doldrums that have becalmed Japan's economy for much of the last decade helped knock Japan from its long-held ranking as the world's second-largest economy. Pressure is mounting on the Bank of Japan for more drastic action -- even if Japanese officials still show little willingness, or ability, to step in. PAGE B3
HSBC Seeks Stake in Nedbank B3
Sports
PIRATES KEEP LOSING
All the Way to the Bank
Though the Pittsburgh Pirates have long ranked among baseball's bottom-dwellers -- with 18 consecutive losing seasons -- newly released financial paperwork shows that the team made nearly $29.4 million in profit in 2007 and 2008. PAGE B10
ACCEPTANCE FOR RUNNER LAGS
Since track and field's governing body ruled that Caster Semenya may compete as a woman, many other elite runners have expressed reservation about her doing so. Christopher Clarey, On Track and Field. PAGE B11
Arts
A NEW REQUIEM
For New Orleans
Spike Lee's new documentary, ''If God Is Willing and da Creek Don't Rise,'' revisits many people seen in ''When the Levees Broke,'' which followed the fallout of Hurricane Katrina. Now they are grappling with a second disaster: the explosion of a BP drilling rig that flooded the Gulf Coast with oil -- and that sent Mr. Lee and his team scrambling to rework what they thought was a finished film. PAGE C1
BRACING FOR 'MOCKINGJAY'
Booksellers around the country are hoping that ''Mockingjay,'' which is set to be published on Tuesday, the final volume of Suzanne Collins's ''Hunger Games'' trilogy of dystopian young-adult novels, will give them a much-needed lift in sales as the summer draws to a close. PAGE C1
Science Times
STUDYING ACUPUNCTURE,
One Needle Prick at a Time
For at least 2,000 years Chinese healers have used acupuncture to treat pain and other ailments. Now Western doctors want proof that it works. Tara Parker-Pope, Well. PAGE D5
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23
BOB HERBERT PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BURN INJURIES (90%); BASEBALL (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (85%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); RELIGION (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (67%); CANCER (67%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (66%); DEFLATION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (51%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%)

COMPANY: ROCHE HOLDING AG (82%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%)

TICKER: ROG (SWX) (82%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); CAMBODIA (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



597 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (History) JEFFERSON He professed to believe that all men are created equal, yet he owned slaves. He disliked politics but served as governor of Virginia, secretary of state and president. He lived lavishly and died in debt. This two-hour special explores the contradictions of Thomas Jefferson, left, as juxtaposed against his political career; his longtime relationship with Sally Hemings, one of his slaves, after the death of his wife; his support for an agrarian way of life; his intellectual pursuits, including botany, cartography, astronomy and architecture; and his final major achievement, the founding of the University of Virginia.
9 P.M. (Bravo) FLIPPING OUT Jeff decides to be more attentive to client satisfaction and his own professionalism. But that doesn't stop him from dealing with a smelly pet problem. In ''The Rachel Zoe Project,'' at 10, Rachel encourages Cameron Diaz and Demi Moore to be more daring as she styles them for the Oscars -- a task that keeps her from celebrating her wedding anniversary with Rodger. Meanwhile, Brad navigates Fashion Week for the first time without Taylor. 
9 P.M. (TNT) HAWTHORNE Season 2 ends as a construction accident causes an explosion -- and chaos for Christina (Jada Pinkett Smith) at the hospital. In the first season finale of ''Memphis Beat,'' at 10, Dwight (Jason Lee) investigates a man with amnesia who may have ties to the cold-case murder of a young girl.
9 P.M. (HBO) IF GOD IS WILLING AND DA CREEK DON'T RISE In the conclusion of this two-part documentary and follow-up to ''When the Levees Broke: A Requiem in Four Acts,'' Spike Lee returns to New Orleans five years after Hurricane Katrina to see how the plans to rebuild the city have materialized. He bookends his film between a time of elation, as the New Orleans Saints won the 2010 Super Bowl, and one of despair, as the BP oil spill added another obstacle to the city's rebirth.
9 P.M. (ABC) SHAQ VS. Shaquille O'Neal tees off against the former basketball star Charles Barkley in a five-hole round at the St. Regis Monarch Beach golf links in Dana Point, Calif. Next, he stuffs down hot dogs in a challenge against the competitive eater Joey Chestnut at Serendipity 3 in Las Vegas.
9 P.M. (USA) WHITE COLLAR Peter (Tim DeKay, above right, with Matt Bomer), helps United States marshals uncover an F.B.I. agent believed to be leaking the locations of trial witnesses in exchange for money. But when the suspect surfaces, Peter finds himself on the lam. In ''Covert Affairs,'' at 10, Auggie (Christopher Gorham) discovers that a hacker who has disrupted communication across the city is someone once close to his heart.
9:30 P.M. (A&E) GENE SIMMONS FAMILY JEWELS Gene Simmons, right, writes a song and performs in a music video after being asked to become a mentor for the Ludacris Foundation, an organization created by the rapper Ludacris to help young people achieve their dreams. In ''Growing Up Twisted,'' at 10, Suzette plays matchmaker for her son Shane, after which Dee tells her that she's meddling too much in her children's lives.
10 P.M. (MTV) MADE: THE MOVIE (2010) The Emmy-winning MTV series grows to feature length as Tuba (Cyrina Fiallo), the band nerd, continues her quest to try out for the cheerleading squad. Worried that his sister is about to humiliate herself even further, Marshall (Brett Dier), her football-star brother, hires his A-list girlfriend (Rachel Skarsten) to teach Tuba the ABCs of school spirit. Suddenly the girls realize they have more in common than just a passion for pom-poms.
10 P.M. (FX) RESCUE ME Tommy (Denis Leary) and Sheila (Callie Thorne) discover the true nature of their relationship after finding themselves in trouble with Janet (Andrea Roth) and Mickey (Robert John Burke). Elsewhere, Damien (Michael Zegen) tries to leave 62 Truck.
10 P.M. (Comedy Central) BIG LAKE Glenn (Horatio Sanz) realizes that his new pet iguana makes people want to be his friend. At 10:30, Chris (Chris Parnell) moves in with the Franklins (James Rebhorn and Deborah Rush) after being evicted from his home. They seem to prefer him to their son, Josh (Chris Gethard). KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); GOVERNORS (78%); MURDER (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); HURRICANES (68%); FASHION DESIGNERS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GOLF (65%); WITNESSES (64%); HURRICANE KATRINA (63%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (63%); CITY LIFE (62%); OIL SPILLS (61%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (61%); SPORTS (61%); MARSHALS (60%); BASKETBALL (60%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (54%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%)

PERSON: CAMERON DIAZ (52%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010



598 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1981 words

HEADLINE: Plotting Dominion Through Pots Of Pasta

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
THERE are times when words won't do, when the only accurate conveyance of feeling is something rawer and more guttural. So on a recent afternoon, as the chef Michael White articulated his determination to be recognized as the king of Italian cooking in New York, he let out a thunderous sound between a growl and a roar.
He was in the SoHo offices of the Altamarea Group, a new corporate umbrella for his growing restaurant portfolio. He was discussing the success of Marea, which he opened on Central Park South last year, and his hopes for Osteria Morini, a tribute to the Emilia-Romagna region of Italy that will make its debut in SoHo this fall.
And he was caroming from one bold proclamation to the next: If his surname were Italian, the city's food establishment would have rallied around him sooner! He spent twice the time in Italy that Mario Batali did, and never takes the liberties with Italian cuisine that Andrew Carmellini does at Locanda Verde! Neither of them has quite his combination of knowledge, authenticity and commitment! 
''I eat, sleep, live and die Italian food,'' said Mr. White, 39, whose appearance, like his name, doesn't go naturally with Italian cuisine. Pale and doughy, he stands 6 feet 4 inches tall, and the uppermost stretch of that is an incongruous baby face with a milky geniality that strongly suggests his Midwestern roots.
''I am so competitive,'' he added, but with an unprintable expletive after the ''so.'' ''Docile big teddy bear? No. I'm just ... .''
That's when it rose up, following a brief, silent grappling for the right syllables: ''Raaaaaahhhhhhhhh!'' And it left no ambiguity. Mr. White is ready to rumble.
Just four years ago, after he resigned as head chef at Fiamma Osteria in SoHo, he was in limbo, having moved from New York to Beloit, Wis. He, his wife and their daughter, then 2, were temporarily living with his parents in his childhood home.
That's where the restaurateur Chris Cannon tracked him down by telephone to ask him to take over as chef of the Midtown restaurants L'Impero and Alto. Mr. White said a fateful yes, returned to New York and commenced a frenzy of work. The northern Italian-tilting menu at Alto and the one at L'Impero got a thorough makeover. L'Impero turned toward the country's south and was rechristened Convivio.
Then, at a particularly low point in the recession, came the elegant, expensive, seafood-focused Marea, ''an ambitious restaurant, more so than any Mr. Cannon and Mr. White have opened,'' wrote Sam Sifton, the New York Times's restaurant critic, in a review that awarded it three stars. Defying some predictions of doom, it proved to be the pair's greatest success, grossing about $13.5 million in its first year, according to its proprietors. That was more than $4 million above projections, and more than twice the gross at Convivio or Alto, which have fewer seats and slightly lower prices.
With only one cookbook and no TV show of his own, Mr. White still doesn't have anything approaching the public profile of Mr. Batali or the city's many other celebrity chefs. But only a very few of his peers have a trio of New York restaurants with as much acclaim in aggregate as Marea, Alto and Convivio have, and Mr. White is unusually well positioned for continued expansion.
He and Mr. Cannon have a third partner who has drawn little attention but made an enormous difference: Ahmass Fakahany, the former chief operating officer of Merrill Lynch, now the head of the Altamarea Group. It was Mr. Fakahany who put up the roughly $6 million it took to open Marea, enabling Mr. Cannon and Mr. White to make the sorts of quick decisions and adjustments that can be difficult when there are multiple investors to consult.
And Mr. Fakahany's financial acumen and stature in the corporate world, coupled with Marea's success, enabled the three partners to secure a bank loan of about $2.5 million for Osteria Morini, in which almost everything -- the terra-cotta floor tiles, the farmhouse beams on the ceiling, the cast-iron front door, the gelato case -- has been imported from Italy.
Morini, with just under 100 seats, will be much more casual than Marea, Alto or Convivio, but is as clear a reflection of the partners' aspirations as anything before it. Having succeeded uptown, they now want to conquer downtown. Having done high-end, they want something in the middle that could be more easily cloned.
''Osteria Morini could be repeated again,'' Mr. Fakahany said. ''We know now where to get the beams, the bricks, how to go to the antique markets.'' His goal, he said, is to help Mr. White ''fulfill his full potential,'' which he said Mr. White ''hasn't begun to tap.'' Is it any wonder that Mr. White refers to Mr. Fakahany's entry into his career as ''being struck by lightning''?
But Mr. Fakahany didn't have to put up money and Altamarea didn't have to take out a bank loan for two additional projects in the works.
The Altamarea Group recently agreed to create a 175-seat restaurant in the Setai hotel in Midtown. Projected to open late this year, it will be called Ai Fiori (''To the Flowers'') and will mingle the cooking of southern France with that of northern Italy -- the region of Liguria, principally.
Altamarea is also negotiating to set up a 200-seat Italian restaurant for a waterfront commercial development in Hong Kong. Mr. White said he would dispatch three cooks trained by him and would visit the restaurant personally perhaps only twice a year.
In coming months he will probably need to hire about 200 employees on top of the 450 working for Altamarea, which moved into its spacious suite in SoHo early this year. That was around the time that Mr. White began to be driven between his Upper West Side apartment, his restaurants and the business's office in a black Escalade.
Michael White, the younger of two sons reared by Gerry White, a commercial banker, and his wife, Mary Ann, initially exhibited more passion for eating than for cooking, although he was known as the family's master maker of Kraft macaroni and cheese. ''He always added more butter,'' his mother recalled, ''and he used half-and-half instead of milk.''
School didn't engage him as much as cars, trucks and football. He played offensive tackle on his high school's varsity team, using his size to his advantage.
His father remembered a game program during his son's junior year that listed him at 312 pounds. He said that a man in the stands commented loudly that the figure had to be wrong, prompting Mary Ann White, in her own ''Blind Side'' moment, to stand up and say to him: ''Let me tell you a little secret. That 312-pounder you're talking about is my son Michael White. I can assure you it's right, because I feed him five times a day, and I think 312 is a little light.''
After graduation, he commuted to a two-year college where he continued to play football and studied political science. He would often take a midday break and go home, where he and his mother developed a lunchtime ritual of watching ''Great Chefs,'' a cooking show before there were a gazillion of them.
And when, at 19, a knee injury forced him to quit football, he announced to his parents that he was dropping out of college to find work as a chef. They insisted he enroll in a cooking school, which he did, at Kendall College in Chicago. Before classes began, he visited the Italian restaurant Spiaggia to ask the chef Paul Bartolotta, an acquaintance of an acquaintance, if there might be some menial work there for him. His mother recalled being surprised at his hiring, and asking him what he had done to impress Mr. Bartolotta.
''He told me to chop some basil,'' Michael told her.
''How did you know how?'' she asked.
''Ma,'' he answered, ''we watched it on 'Great Chefs'!''
At Spiaggia he fell in love with Italian food, and through Mr. Bartolotta he arranged, at age 21, to travel to Italy and do an apprenticeship in Imola, in the Emilia-Romagna region, at the famous restaurant San Domenico.
He spent most of the next seven years there, learning the nuances of pasta making, meeting his future wife and becoming a surrogate son of sorts to the restaurant's owner, Gianluigi Morini, after whom Osteria Morini is named.
When Fiamma opened in 2002, he helmed the kitchen. He said it was in many ways a frustrating experience: as a part of the B.R. Guest restaurant empire, the restaurant belonged more to its emperor, Stephen Hanson, than to him. But his cooking garnered many rave reviews and introduced him to Mr. Fakahany, a Fiamma regular who liked Mr. White's optimism and buoyancy.
''He had a twinkle,'' Mr. Fakahany said.
They teamed up to open two New Jersey restaurants: Due Terre, in Bernardsville, and Due Mari, in New Brunswick. Although Fiamma closed at the beginning of 2009, they endure -- and are part of the Altamarea Group.
Osteria Morini will be Mr. White's most personal restaurant yet, reflecting his loving attachment to the region of Italy that he called home. There will be offal and vegetable and pork ragus, the braised sauces for which Bologna, the region's capital, is famous.
Mr. White has also mined Emilia-Romagna for less familiar delicacies, like tigelle, a kind of bread whose dough includes pork fat, and spuma di mortadella, a kind of mousse that combines ground mortadella with nutmeg and heavy cream.
One section of the menu is devoted to salumi, another to fritters, another to grilled meats and spit roasts. Although there are some entrees above $30, Mr. White and Mr. Cannon expect the average Morini check to be $59, which is less than half the average at Marea or Alto.
Mr. Cannon and Mr. White said their goal is a restaurant that -- in its unceremonious spirit and fastidiously rough-hewn aesthetic -- will be the city's most persuasive replica of a genuine Italian osteria or trattoria.
Most, first, best: Mr. White gravitates toward superlatives, in a manner more exuberant and exhortatory than grandiose. He measures himself against everyone and everything else in town, making especially frequent references to Mr. Batali and his restaurants.
He said, for instance, that the fanciest of them, Del Posto, deploys a few too many non-Italian tricks. He also said that because he isn't Italian, he doesn't take Italian cuisine for granted; he expressed pride at how much time he spends in his kitchens and how little on TV.
Mr. Batali, in an e-mail that mixed full words with abbreviations, wrote, ''He definitely spent more time in Italy than I did, he married a real Italian and probably makes love like an Italian too, defo better than me.''
''Seriously,'' he wrote, ''I love and respect the guy.'' He added that Mr. White ''deserves more press than he gets and he can back it up on the plate too.''
His braggadocio notwithstanding, Mr. White is known in New York restaurant circles as a big-hearted model of professionalism.
''He's one of the most generous, kindest people in the business,'' said John Magazino, who supplies many upscale restaurants with specialty ingredients. Mr. Magazino noted that the acclaimed chef Jonathan Benno will soon open an Italian restaurant near Marea, and said: ''Michael has been sharing ideas, recipes, techniques. That's unheard of.''
But it doesn't mean that Mr. White is ceding any ground. He wants more and more, including some casual, takeout pasta analogue to the chef Tom Colicchio's 'Wichcraft sandwich shops that can be planted far and wide and generate more revenue than any fancy flagship. ''I want to build this $100 million company,'' he said.
He acknowledged that further expansion would mean less intimate stewardship of each restaurant, but said that, like Mr. Batali and his business partner, Joseph Bastianich, he and Mr. Cannon have worked hard to nurture passionate, talented deputies.
''They all drank the Kool-Aid,'' he said. ''They're buying into it and they love it. And we're going to win-win-win all the time. We're going to win!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EMPIRE BUILDING: The chef Michael White of Marea, Alto and Convivio is positioned for expansion. (D1)
 ITALIAN AUTHENTICITY: Michael White, left, prepares his garganelli with ragu antica, above. Below, from left, Chris Cannon, Mr. White and Ahmass Fakahany. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010



599 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: When Feng Shui Helps Determine a Deal's Fate

BYLINE: By JONATHAN VATNER

 BODY:
In July, Michael Rudder, a broker at Time Equities, was nearing completion of a deal with a Chinese client to buy two floors of office condominiums at 131 West 33rd Street when the client made some last-minute requests that struck Mr. Rudder as peculiar.
Adjacent floors were available, but the company, Om-Ah-Hum Realty L.L.C., chose the 9th and 15th for its offices, then switched to the 9th and 14th upon learning that there was no 13th floor. And although the price had been set at $450 a square foot, the company asked for $448 -- and offered to make up the difference in another way. In addition, Om-Ah-Hum requested that the deal be signed on a day with a date ending in 8. (The company declined to discuss its dealings for this article.)
Om-Ah-Hum's requests were based on feng shui, the Chinese system of beliefs that governs building design, the calendar and numbers, among other things, and which is followed by many people in other cultures, particularly in East Asia. Mr. Rudder said the number of Asian buyers and lessees in New York had surged this year; he and other brokers are quickly learning just how pervasive feng shui can be. 
As the deal at 131 West 33rd progressed, the principal of the business was spotted outside the building, taking measurements with a feng shui kit, Mr. Rudder said.
''It looks like a very elaborate compass,'' said Mr. Rudder, who said he first encountered feng shui in a deal in 2007. ''I joke that I can tell how much space my Asian clients are going to buy by how elaborate their feng shui kit is. And this buyer had the most beautiful feng shui kit I've ever seen.''
With the commercial market in New York still soft (prices for some of the buildings Mr. Rudder sells have declined 40 percent in the last few years), he said almost all of his recent sales of office condominiums had been to foreign buyers, especially those based in Asia, where the economy is booming.
''They have this huge appetite for office condos,'' he said, adding that ''they want to own real estate very badly. They do not want to pay rent.'' Accordingly, he said, ''I've completely redirected my marketing plan.''
John Lim, a vice president in the business and commercial banking group at Citibank, also said that Asian businesses were buying New York property that they perceive to be undervalued. As someone who provides owner-occupied commercial mortgages to many Asian-owned businesses, including some of Mr. Rudder's clients, Mr. Lim has made it a point to understand feng shui.
According to Mr. Lim, numbers associated with a building and suite are significant: In Chinese, Japanese and Korean, the pronunciation of the number four sounds the same as the word for death -- which is why many buildings in Asia do not have a fourth floor, the way American buildings often skip the 13th. And in Chinese, the number eight is a homophone for the word for getting rich. The eighth floor, and building numbers with eights in them, often sell at a premium.
For example, in Chinatown in Manhattan, office condos on the eighth floor of the building at 139 Centre Street have sold for as much as $100,000 more than those on other floors. And Queens Crossing, a retail-office building in downtown Flushing in Queens, is occupied almost entirely by Asian companies, but the fourth floor is taken by a non-Asian educational institute.
The concern over numbers extends to the timing of a closing, too. Not only should the day end in an eight, but certain times of day are more auspicious than others.
''Scheduling a closing in our system is like having a dinner party with eight of your closest friends,'' said Luigi Rosabianca, a real estate lawyer. ''It's so difficult, and then when you start to insert cultural requirements, it becomes very challenging.''
Sometimes it is non-Asian clients who are guided by numerology. In the last year, Faith Hope Consolo, chairwoman of the retail leasing, marketing and sales division of Prudential Douglas Elliman, has overseen six leases in which the client would not sign in certain locations, on certain days and even in certain hours.
''It started with East Asian and Indian clients,'' Ms. Consolo said, ''but we're seeing more American clients now. People are so cautious, they're consulting not just feng shui but also the astrological calendar and the numerological calendar.
''In some instances,'' she continued, ''I now have clients telling me, 'Please don't present my proposal until tomorrow after 3.' We've never had that before.''
Ms. Consolo attributes the increased anxiety that she has seen over dates to a general nervousness about the economy. ''Our clients have stopped asking, 'Is this the lowest rent?' and 'Are the rents going down?' but they're trying to rationalize the transaction by putting on other safety valves.''
Feng shui dictates more than just numbers and times; it is probably best known for its guiding principles for the design and orientation of homes and offices. There should be ample natural light, for example, entering through the windows and no open air shafts in the middle of the unit. Also, space should not abut fire-escape stairs.
Michael Heaner, a partner of the Kaufman Organization, which leases and manages office space in New York, said he had seen many deals fall through because of bad feng shui. For companies that put stock in it, therefore, Mr. Heaner has learned to ask for their feng shui master to examine the space before negotiating a lease. ''Frequently you'll get all the way down the road and figure out that the space really does not have the proper feng shui,'' he said.
In one instance a few years ago, he said, the feng shui master for a fashion company rejected the space because it faced too many water towers. ''Personally, I think they add scenery,'' Mr. Heaner said.
For Indian clients who follow the Hindu system of design called Vastu, the shape and orientation of a building and rooms affect a space's desirability. Parag Mehta, the principal of PM Architecture, said that square and rectangular rooms were good but that L-shaped rooms were not. The entrance to the office, as well as the principal of the business, should face north or east. ''You never face south,'' Mr. Mehta said. ''It's totally a no-no.''
If a client is dead set on a space with a south-facing entrance, Mr. Mehta sometimes extends the hallway and moves the entrance so that it faces north. ''If they really like the office,'' he said, ''we can make it happen.''
Some of the potential sticking points are more easily understood by Americans. In adherence to the Jain religion, the owners of Amikam & Paras, an Indian diamond company, are strictly vegetarian, and they worried that meat smells from the neighboring Keens Steakhouse would waft into the 5,500-square-foot space they were buying from Time Equities at 70 West 36th Street.
Once they were satisfied with the smell of the place, they closed the deal; since then, three other Jain companies have inquired about other floors in the building.
Even if requests like this make Mr. Rudder's job more difficult, he said he was thrilled about every new one he received. ''I don't know that you're running into this much diversity in any other city,'' he said. ''It's been such an education.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Rudder, director of office leasing and sales with Time Equities, said almost all of his recent sales of office condominiums had been to foreign buyers, especially those based in Asia, where the economy is booming. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (67%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010



600 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Recalling the Days When 'Little Syria' Was a Vibrant Part Of Downtown's Mix

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Conjure, for a moment, a place just steps from City Hall but a world apart. Salaam.
Yes, that is the fragrance of strong coffee in the air, of sweet figs and tart lemons, of pastries that remind buyers of childhoods in Damascus and Beirut. Bazaars abound with handmade rugs and brass lamps and water pipes. Men wear fezzes. A few women retire behind veils. Al-Hoda is the leading newspaper. Business signs -- at least those legible to a non-Arabic speaker -- proclaim ''Rahaim & Malhami,'' ''Noor & Maloof'' and ''Sahadi Bros.''
This is not what the lower west side of Manhattan would look like if the much-debated Islamic community center were built two blocks from the World Trade Center site. This is what it looked like decades before the World Trade Center was even envisioned. This is its heritage. 
All but lost to living memory and forgotten in the current controversy, Washington Street was the ''heart of New York's Arab world,'' as The New York Times described it in 1946, shortly before that Arab-American community was almost entirely displaced by construction of entrance ramps to the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel.
To be clear: this neighborhood, called Little Syria, was south of what would become the trade center site, while the Islamic center would be to the north. And Muslims, chiefly from Palestine, made up perhaps 5 percent of its population. The Syrians and Lebanese in the neighborhood were mostly Christian.
But it is worth recalling the old sights and sounds and smells of Washington Street as a reminder that in New York -- a city as densely layered as baklava -- no one has a definitive claim on any part of town, and history can turn up some unexpected people in surprising places. (The Abyssinian Baptist Church, for instance, was once on Waverly Place.)
Washington Street was ''an enclave in the New World where Arabs first peddled goods, worked in sweatshops, lived in tenements and hung their own signs on stores,'' Gregory Orfalea wrote in ''The Arab Americans'' (Olive Branch Press, 2006). Among them was Mr. Orfalea's grandmother Nazera Jabaly Orfalea, who arrived in New York from Syria in 1890.
''She would have walked Washington Street,'' he said in an interview. ''She was a peddler. I have no doubt she was grubstaked by suppliers on Washington Street.''
Mr. Orfalea attributed the migration of Syrians, Lebanese and Palestinians to starvation, lawlessness, conscription, taxation and religious intolerance at home; to proselytizing by American missionaries; and to economic troubles that led them to a new world where cultures existed, sometimes bruisingly, cheek by jowl.
''The calls in Arabic of the mothers to their children romping on the street mingle with the jazz screechings from another home and the Homeric curses of the truck-drivers on their way to the wharves,'' Konrad Bercovici wrote in the 1924 book, ''Around the World in New York,'' with a nod toward the nearby Greek settlement of Little Athens.
Little Syria was where the Linotype typesetting machine was adopted for Arabic characters, by the brothers Naoum and Salloum Mokarzel of Al-Hoda (The Guidance). This development ''made possible and immeasurably stimulated the growth of Arabic journalism in the Middle East,'' The New York Times wrote in 1948.
But the presence of the intelligentsia in the quarter was no bulwark against stereotype. A neighborhood brawl in 1905 was fought by ''wild-eyed Syrians,'' The Times reported. ''The dim light from barroom and cafe showed the glint of steel in 200 swarthy hands.''
Mr. Orfalea discerned parallels with the present controversy. ''We fail to deal with the Arab world in rational terms,'' he said, ''because we immediately reduce them to the irrational.''
Historical accounts describe no mosques on Washington Street, but there were three churches that served the Lebanese and Syrian Christians.
St. George Chapel of the Melkite Rite still stands, at 103 Washington Street. It may be the last recognizable remnant of Little Syria. It is now Moran's Ale House and Grill.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sampling dessert in a Syrian pastry shop on Washington Street in 1946, above. Moran's Ale House and Grill, right, at 103 Washington Street, occupies what was once St. George Chapel. Most of the Syrian and Lebanese immigrants in the area were Christian
 about 5 percent were Muslim. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (89%); CITIES (89%); CHILDREN (77%); STARVATION (76%); ARAB AMERICANS (75%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) SYRIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); LEBANON (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010

 
