

201 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Income Inequality, Writ Larger

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
INCOME inequality is a hot topic in politics and economics. The rising economic tide is lifting a bunch of yachts, but leaving those in simple boats just bobbing along. 
 Two professors -- Thomas Piketty of the Paris School of Economics and Emmanuel Saez of the University of California, Berkeley -- have found that the share of gross personal income of the top 1 percent of American earners rose to 17.4 percent in 2005 from 8.2 percent in 1980.
Many economists, especially those who find themselves in the Bush administration, argue that the winner-take-all trend is fueled by other, unstoppable trends. After all, globalization, information technology and free trade place a premium on skills and education. ''The good news is that most of the inequality reflects an increase in returns to 'investing in skills' -- workers completing more school, getting more training and acquiring new capabilities,'' as Edward P. Lazear, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, put it last year.
 It takes an optimist to find good news in the fact that the top 1 percent have steadily increased their haul while the other 99 percent haven't; after all, many more than one in every 100 Americans are investing in skills and education. 
 But the orthodoxy surrounding income inequality is being undermined by research that looks at institutional issues: changes in the way the corporate world measures the performance of workers, the decline of unions, and government wage and tax policy. In this view, skills, education and trade aren't the whole story. They're simply ''factors operating within a broader institutional story,'' as Frank Levy, the Rose professor of urban economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, describes it.
 One big change in recent decades has been a rise in performance-based pay. Through the 1970s, thanks in part to unions that negotiated wages collectively, ''people with different abilities and capabilities were frequently paid the same amount for doing similar jobs,'' said W. Bentley MacLeod, an economics professor at Columbia.
 But as companies and compensation consultants began using information technology to determine more accurately the contributions of individual employees, employers began to discriminate among employees based on performance. In a working paper, Professor MacLeod, along with Thomas Lemieux of the University of British Columbia and Daniel Parent of McGill University, mined census data and found that the proportion of jobs with a performance-pay component rose to 40 percent in the 1990s from 30 percent in the late 1970s. 
 ''Since companies are better able to measure precisely what an employee contributes, we've seen a greater range of incomes among people doing roughly the same jobs,'' Professor MacLeod said.
 The fact that more Americans are paid less on the basis of a job title and more on their individual output inexorably leads to greater inequality. The authors' conclusion is that the rise of performance-based pay has accounted for 25 percent of the growth in wage inequality among male workers from 1976 to 1993.
 ''All the bits of evidence we have tend to say that this trend is continuing,'' Professor Lemieux said. In 2003, the authors note, 44.5 percent of workers at Fortune 1000 companies received some form of performance-based pay, up from 34.7 percent in 1996. And think of the growing legions of self-employed -- people selling items on eBay, mortgage brokers and real estate brokers, freelance journalists and consultants of all types -- for whom all pay is performance-based. Among these growing cadres, the dispersion of incomes is rather large. 
 ''When you look at the self-employed and contractors,'' Professor Lemieux said, ''inequality is much higher.''
 Aside from corporate compensation policies, public policies have played a significant role in contributing to the growth of income inequality. That's the argument made in a recent, brilliant National Bureau of Economic Research working paper by Professor Levy and Peter Temin, the Elisha Gray II professor of economics at M.I.T. The paper, which is more narrative than quantitative -- Professor Temin is a distinguished economic historian -- argues that the rise of income isn't simply a byproduct of the free market working its wonders. 
 Professor Levy and Professor Temin divide the second half of the 20th century into two periods. In the first, 1955 to 1980, a grand bargain between labor and corporate America involving New Deal-era protections for workers and high marginal tax rates (the top rate was 90 percent in the 1950s) led to what economists have called the Great Moderation. The middle class grew dramatically, income inequality decreased, and corporations generally enjoyed labor peace.
 Since 1980, they argue, it's been a different story, thanks in part to a shifting political environment. Unions have weakened, the minimum wage hasn't come close to keeping up with inflation, and marginal income tax rates have been cut -- the top marginal rate is now 36 percent, down from 70 percent in 1980. A result has been declining bargaining power for workers and the rise of a winner-take-all environment. 
 ''The last six years of federal tax history have involved an inhospitable politics in which winners have used their political power to expand their winnings,'' the authors say. In other words, if capital has lately been prevailing in the centuries-long battle with labor, it is doing so with a substantial assist from the government.
 Professor Saez agrees with the broad argument, but says that the impact of tax policy in recent years has been minor. When the top income tax rate was 5o percent in the 1970s, he says, ''the force to pay according to talent was much weaker'' because most of the excess pay would be eaten up by taxes. ''Once the very high tax rates for big fortunes were removed in the 1980s,'' Professor Saez says ''then the market could drive up the compensation at the top.'' 
 WHAT are the political -- and policy -- implications of this rethinking of the roots of income inequality? Too often, economists have argued that the government can't -- and shouldn't -- do much to reverse the growth of income inequality, beyond exhorting workers to get more skills and education. But given the institutional factors at work, that may be a cop-out. 
 ''The historical evidence suggests that institutions do have some power to modify some of these outcomes,'' Professor Levy said. 
 It is commonplace to hear that the current set of arrangements and policies is the only possible way the economy can work, given trends like the rise of China and global economic integration. As Professor Levy said, ''That's a very convenient argument for people to make if they're doing very well.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 17, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Economic View column last Sunday, about income inequality in the United States, misstated the top marginal rate for federal income taxes. It is 35 percent, not 36 percent.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David G. Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); TRENDS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); MERIT PAY (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); CENSUS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (58%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%)

PERSON: ED LAZEAR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



202 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Lifestyles of the Rich

BYLINE: By ALEX BEAM. 
Alex Beam is a columnist at The Boston Globe and the author, most recently, of ''Gracefully Insane.''

 BODY:
RICHISTAN
 A Journey Through the 
 American Wealth Boom and 
 the Lives of the New Rich.
 By Robert Frank.
 277 pp. Crown Publishers. $24.95.
ll good journalism is really travel writing. You prepare for a serious story the way a foreign correspondent would. You buy the maps, you learn the language, you hang out with the locals -- not just the taxi drivers! -- and then you write.
 That's what Robert Frank has done. He writes the Wealth Report column for The Wall Street Journal. (Who writes the Euchred by Capitalism column, I wonder?) In his new book, ''Richistan,'' he posits the existence of a little-known country within our country. This ''parallel country of the rich was once just a village, he argues, but now it's an entire nation. 
 The data bear Frank out. It was a huge deal when John D. Rockefeller became the country's first billionaire. Adjusted for inflation, he had $14 billion -- less than the net worth of each of Sam Walton's five children today. There were an estimated 13 American billionaires in 1985. Now there are more than 1,000. In 2005, America minted 227,000 new financial millionaires, men and women with more than $1 million in investible assets. There are as many millionaires in North Carolina as there are in India. And so on.
 Frank argues that the rich are ''financial foreigners'' within their own country. They have their own health care system, staffed by ''concierge doctors.'' They have their own travel network of timeshare (or private) jets and destination clubs. For her birthday, one 11-year-old ''aristokid'' pleads to fly commercial, ''to ride on a big plane with other people. I want to see what an airport looks like on the inside.'' 
 Like an anthropologist in the Amazon basin, Frank goes native. Except instead of a loincloth, he dons a white tuxedo to attend the International Red Cross Ball in Palm Beach, where he meets ''Jackie Bradley, a buxom blonde squeezed into a jewel-encrusted Joy Cherry gown.'' Bradley is chatting up her new book, ''The Bombshell Bible.'' ''It's really more about my inner life,'' she says. ''I'm hoping to use it to help other women like me.''
 And Frank learns the lingo. Most Richistanis earn their citizenship through a ''liquidity event,'' when someone buys out their company, rather than through inheritance. Hedge fundies prowl the nether regions of Manhattan for trendy paintings, or ''noncorrelated assets.'' ''Affluent'' is Richistani code for ''not really rich.'' According to Frank, you need about $10 million to be considered entry-level rich.
 Frank also plumbs Richistan's secret status codes. You might have thought that a Mercedes SLK or a Rolex were flash possessions. Wrong! In Richistan, they are reverse status symbols. The affluent drive Mercedes; the rich drive Maybachs. Franck Muller hardly advertises their bejeweled watches, which top out around $600,000, because they might attract the wrong kind of attention. Like yours.
 If you experience status anxiety, this book isn't for you. You can't avoid the conclusion that everyone is a lot richer than you are, whether he deserves to be or not. Here's a guy, Ed Bazinet, who got rich making little ceramic villages with light bulbs inside them. How hard can that be?
 On a more reassuring note, it's nice to learn that the rich suffer status anxiety, too. When Richistanis are asked how much money would make them feel secure, they inevitably choose a figure that is double their own net worth. Because so many newly enriched entrepreneurs hail from middle-class backgrounds, they hate being called rich. Chauffeurs, for instance, are out. Rolls-Royce says 95 per cent of its customers drive the cars themselves. Tim Blixseth, the founder of the Yellowstone Club and other gated hideaways, tells Frank: ''I don't like most rich people. They can be arrogant.'' This from a man who owns two Shih Tzus named Learjet and G2. As in Gulfstream G2. If you were rich, you would get it.
 These aren't people who spend a lot of time looking in the mirror. Because if they did, they would see, as Frank does, the contradictions behind their middle-class protestations and high-profile philanthropic ventures on the one hand, and their ordering alligator-skin toilet seats for their private jets on the other. Frank is not a flashy writer, but he is smart enough to let the material come to him. When he sits down with the inflatable-pool-toy magnate Simon Fireman for lunch at the Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach, Fireman pulls ''from his jacket pocket a two-page spreadsheet of all his charitable donations for over a decade, which he said I was free to publish.''
 If ''Richistan'' is travel journalism, then ... do we want to go there? Not much. The people sound dreadful and not very happy, to boot. But consider the alternative. Frank gets a glimpse of the world outside when he attends Fort Lauderdale's International Boat Show, right after Hurricane Wilma has plowed through town. ''Thousands of residents in the poorer sections of Fort Lauderdale (most of them black or Hispanic) were left homeless,'' Frank writes, ''sweating through the tropical heat, without electricity.'' Meanwhile, at the Bahia Mar Marina, a chocolate fountain gurgled and the $20 million yachts and vendor pavilions were ''perfectly chilled.''
 Look out the window: It's Pooristan. Hmmm. I wonder who lives there. And will anyone be writing a book about them? 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Marian Bantjes) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); HEALTH CARE (64%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



203 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: The Odd Career Beckons Well Beyond the Capitol's Lobby

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
One of the more depressing facts of Capitol life is that close to half of each Congress's departing members now stay in town for far richer careers as lobbyists. They gratefully cycle into modern government's shadow estate that has doubled in size in the last decade. Public service as a public trust? It's become more an undergraduate's training for the inner-sanctum swagger of K Street. 
 And then there's Representative Martin Meehan, who is quietly packing it in after 14 years in Congress. He labored as one of the House's most aggressive fighters for ethics reform, taking aim at alumni lobbyists, among others. Typically ornery, Mr. Meehan is not letting the door hit him in the wallet on the way out. He's going back home to become chancellor of the University of Massachusetts's campus in Lowell. 
''Good people get elected,'' the 50-year-old Democrat concluded from his perch in the people's House. ''But when money becomes so important in the process, when lobbying becomes so incredibly powerful in the process, it's really difficult to get decisions that are truly made on the merits.''
 Sour grapes? Not at all. Mr. Meehan proudly points to the presidential pen that enacted the campaign finance crackdown outlawing the unlimited, unregulated traffic in ''soft money'' donations that used to buy privileged access to politicians. Now there are other ways to do that, but the soft-money ban at least shut one trough by using that rarely used tool of bipartisanship. Mr. Meehan worked with Representative Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut, and Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Russ Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin.
 That victory seems a millennium ago. It was never designed as a brake on the runaway growth in regulated hard-money donations that are making the next presidential election a record $1 billion showdown for the two finalists. ''Where's the public outrage?'' asks Mr. Meehan of the fact that the major candidates are making no real effort to salvage the post-Watergate campaign money law. That proved public financing could be an alternative to the siren call of deep-pocketed special-interest donors, until it was outdated by inflation.
 ''We never went far enough; we should have a system of public financing for Congress, too,'' says Representative Meehan, a reformer in retreat who sees little chance of that happening for the next few decades. In truth, more big-money campaign techniques and ever more cash-laden lobbyists are moving in as he moves out. That is unlikely to change, even if Congress manages final approval of a mandate that lobbyists disclose, but not end, some of their mammoth money-raising ways on Capitol Hill. 
 Mr. Meehan smiles when reminded that university fund-raising will figure big in his new job. ''I had to develop a special fund-raising skill,'' he noted, as one of the rare Washington politicians who relied on campaign donations from individual constituents at home rather than from Beltway political action committees. 
 In one of his last Washington fights, Mr. Meehan failed with a measure to force his fellow representatives to wait two years, not the current one year, before they can begin their back-slapping, nice-to-see-you rounds as inner-circle lobbyists. There was rare bipartisanship as members staged an ugly revolt defending their right to rush from public service to private wealth. ''What you are telling me is, I cut off my profession,'' one lawmaker whined.
 Representative Meehan was hardly surprised. ''I gave it the best I have,'' he said, packing up for a new career calling well out of town. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICS (69%); APPROVALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (56%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



204 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Honda CR-V; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: A Pop Performer Starts to Rock

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

DATELINE: EASTON, N.H. 

 BODY:
HONDA'S original CR-V of 1997 helped to establish a new type of vehicle, the compact sport utility wagon, by combining common-sense packaging with the brand's solid reputation. The first CR-V was a huge success, even if it had all the charisma of a cinder block. Actually, it resembled a cinder block.
 Back then, the CR-V's competition pretty much started and ended with the Toyota RAV4, which had been introduced in 1996. Ten years later, the 2007 CR-V finds itself in a competitive free-for-all, with 20 or so cute utes wrestling for customers.
 This market segment, so popular now, didn't even exist 11 years ago, noted Tom Libby, automotive analyst for J. D. Power & Associates. Small crossover wagons now account for 8.5 percent of the nation's light vehicle sales, and they continue to grow. 
 This competitive pressure helps to explain the drastic changes Honda has made to its redesigned 2007 CR-V. The little wagon's style has graduated from frumpy to sleek, and its handling is now sharp enough that even a fussy driving enthusiast can enjoy a stint at the wheel. Nor has the CR-V lost the practicality that made it one of America's favorite small utilities for nearly a decade.
 This new approach seems to be working. So far in 2007, the CR-V has outsold all crossovers and sport utilities, regardless of size or price, according to J. D. Power.
 Prices start at $21,195 for the nicely equipped LX base model with two-wheel drive. (Add $1,200 for all-wheel drive.) After that comes the midlevel EX, the EX-L (with leather and XM Satellite radio) and the EX-L with a navigation system -- the first offered in a CR-V. A Honda spokesman said prices have increased around 1 percent, or just a bit more, depending on model. 
 This year, for the first time, Honda is building CR-Vs in North America, at East Liberty, Ohio, in addition to a plant in Japan. Quality doesn't seem to have suffered; last week, J. D. Power said that the CR-V ranked highest in its class in initial quality.
 My CR-V test car was a top-of-the-line EX-L with all-wheel drive and a navigation system. This $28,595 model also had a rearview camera and a six-CD changer.
 The lens of the back-up camera tends to get easily covered by dirt, but that's not all bad: once you get out of the car to clean it off, there is no longer any mystery about what is behind you. So from that standpoint it works quite well.
 In addition to the more rounded body style, the larger 17-inch wheels -- now standard -- give the CR-V a little more attitude. It also has a little more punch, thanks to an additional 10 horsepower, bringing the rating up to 166 while the curb weight remains about the same. But the big improvement is in the handling, which has gone from simply competent to actually entertaining. Credit the re-engineered, stronger body; a lower center of gravity that improves stability and responsiveness; and a reworked suspension, which nicely controls body lean on turns. 
 It isn't until we take a right turn onto Route 118, the Sawyer Highway in the White Mountain National Forest, that we discover the CR-V's unpleasant side. On that road's broken surface, the stiffness that makes the CR-V fun to drive on tight curves becomes a bit uncomfortable.
 The new model also represents a step back for drivers who like to shift for themselves. Last year, the midlevel CR-V EX with all-wheel drive offered a five-speed manual transmission; this year, a five-speed automatic is the only gearbox. 
 To its credit, the automatic offers smooth upshifts and is quick to respond. Under hard acceleration, it doesn't upshift too quickly -- going well past 5,000 r.p.m. before surrendering to a higher gear. The four-cylinder engine is strong and sounds good when pushed hard. On the test vehicle, however, there was a drone and vibration around 1,500 r.p.m.
 Normally, the all-wheel-drive model operates in front-wheel drive until the system senses front-wheel slippage. Honda says the system has been improved so that more power shifts more quickly to the rear. 
 The old CR-V's side-hinged swinging tailgate has been replaced by a liftgate. Because the spare is now inside under the cargo floor instead of mounted on the tailgate, the new CR-V is three inches shorter, making it fit better into cramped garages.
 Inside, my big gripe with the CR-V concerns the finishes. There is a lot of hard, cheap-looking plastic. So while the interior is functional, it is not very handsome. Also, the seat materials have a bargain-basement look unless you ante up for leather. The new Hyundai Santa Fe has a much richer-looking interior.
 On the plus side, all CR-V's come with the same high level of safety equipment. This means six air bags, including side bags for the front seats along with side curtains to protect heads in both the front and back; antilock brakes; electronic stability control to help prevent skids; and active head restraints to minimize injuries to the neck in a rear collision. The new model is a ''top safety pick'' by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, a recognition for vehicles that protected passengers best in front, side and rear crash tests. 
 The CR-V is 1.4 inches wider than before, which permits more hip room. Honda says the seats are more supportive, but I found them rather hard. If you don't bring your own rear-end padding, you aren't getting any. Also the bottom cushions are short, depriving even average-sized occupants of thigh support.
 There is plenty of rear legroom, and because the floor under the back seat is flat, three adults really do fit there. The rear seats slide forward and back six inches to allow an easy tradeoff between cargo space and passenger legroom. The rear seat bottoms are split 60/40, and for 2007 the seatbacks are split 40/20/40, providing a center pass-through for long items like skis. 
 Each of the three seatback sections can be individually reclined. But to do this, you must pull a plastic ring attached to a cord, and this is almost impossible to do while sitting in the seat. 
 The CR-V can carry more than many of its rivals, including the Ford Escape and Hyundai Tucson. The rear seatbacks can be folded and the seats will tumble forward without removing the head restraints. This more than doubles cargo space to a respectable 73 cubic feet. 
 At 65 m.p.h., there was a fair amount of wind noise, along with road noise from the rear compartment. The rather thick rearmost roof pillars seriously reduce visibility.
 Comparison shoppers might think the CR-V comes up short in a couple of areas. For instance, it does not offer an optional third-row seat, which is becoming common in smallish wagons. Nor can you get a V-6 in addition to the in-line 4; the RAV4, Hyundai Tucson and Ford Escape all offer a choice of 4 or V-6.
 But a practical analysis might suggest that neither a third row nor a V-6 is necessary. Such seats are often so cramped as to be unusable, and Honda's peppy 4-cylinder engine (which also delivers 28 m.p.g. on the highway) needs no alternative. 
 So the CR-V is a great all-round choice, at least if you can overlook its interior. Given the sales figures, that appears not to bother a lot of people. ''They are basically selling them as soon as they come off the truck,'' said Mr. Libby of J. D. Power. INSIDE TRACK: A practical Honda gets a dose of charisma. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: OUT OF THE BOX -- For 2007, the Honda CR-V gets a sleeker look and a harder edge. Chart: ''First Take on Quality'' Rankings by nameplate for the 2007 Initial Quality Study by J. D. Power & Associates. Numbers after bars indicate the number of problems per 100 vehicles that were reported by owners in the survey. Those with arrows show the change in ranking from last year. This is the second consecutive year that Porsche has placed first. The study was based on 97,000 respondents, the most ever, who were queried 90 days after they bought their cars. Chart shows Problems Per 100 Vehicles for select vehicles. (pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (67%); RANKINGS (65%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); SATELLITE RADIO (62%)

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%); AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (76%); JAPAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



205 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front ; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Sharpe James Gets Warning About Charges

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
Federal investigators have informed former Newark Mayor Sharpe James that he could soon face criminal charges for billing the city for tens of thousands of dollars in travel expenses during his final months in office and allowing his advisers and political allies to buy municipal property at rates far below market rates, according to a lawyer familiar with the case.
 Mr. James, who left office last June after 20 years as mayor, has been the subject of a federal inquiry for more than a year, after complaints from community leaders and political opponents that he was conducting a ''fire sale'' of vacant city lots to his associates at low prices. 
During the course of the investigation, federal agents have subpoenaed records and questioned city police officers who accompanied Mr. James and his aides on trips to Martha's Vineyard, Brazil and the Caribbean to determine whether he used his two city credit cards to pay for legitimate business expenses or for vacations.
 Early this month, the United States attorney's office sent Mr. James a ''target letter,'' offering him a chance to testify to the grand jury before its members vote on whether to hand up an indictment, according to the lawyer, who declined to be identified because the investigation was ongoing. The letter was first reported yesterday by The Star-Ledger of Newark.
 Neither Mr. James nor his lawyer, Raymond M. Brown, returned repeated calls for comment, but in the past they have insisted that the land sales and travel benefited Newark and its taxpayers.
 Michael Drewniak, a spokesman for United States Attorney Christopher J. Christie, also did not return calls requesting information about the case.
 The escalation of the investigation is an ominous sign for Mr. James, a brash and skilled politician who dominated Newark's affairs for a generation.
 He was swept into office as a reformer in 1986, unseating Kenneth Gibson, Newark's first black mayor, and presided over a surge in downtown development and rising real estate prices. But Mr. James's critics say he often overlooked the city's neighborhoods and schools at the expense of the power brokers and business leaders who contributed to his campaigns.
 Mr. James has been dogged by allegations of financial impropriety since 1995, when a federal investigation into his charitable foundation, the Sharpe James Civic Association, which could not account for hundreds of thousands of dollars, ended without any charges against the mayor. A separate investigation in 1997 led to the conviction of his chief of staff, who took kickbacks from insurance brokers.
 The reduced-rate sale of city property, which occurred mostly in 2005 and 2006, became a major issue in the campaign of Mayor Cory A. Booker, who was easily elected after Mr. James decided not to run.
 Mr. Booker criticized the James administration for selling property for $4 a square foot when similar parcels were appraised at more than $20, saying they were a giveaway of city resources to people with political connections. The Booker campaign also won an injunction blocking dozens of sales.
 Among those who were allowed to buy the low-priced property was Tamika Riley, a public relations consultant who occasionally traveled with Mr. James. Ms. Riley bought at least nine city-owned properties for $46,000 and later resold them for $700,000. She was also scheduled to buy three more properties before those sales were blocked by the injunction.
 Federal agents also subpoenaed records regarding a series of transactions involving Karen Hilliard-Johnson, who worked for Mr. James as a director in the city's Department of Economic and Housing Development. Property records show that in 2000, Ms. Hilliard-Johnson bought a home for $200,000 -- when similar homes were selling for well over $300,000 -- from a developer who later purchased dozens of low-cost city lots from the department where she worked. In an interview earlier this year, Ms. Hilliard-Johnson said she had done nothing improper.
 The investigation into the financial dealings of Mr. James's administration is one of a wide range of corruption inquires conducted by Mr. Christie since he took office in 2002. His office has won convictions or guilty pleas from more than 100 elected officials, including former Essex County Executive James Treffinger; former State Senate President John Lynch; and a variety of Monmouth County officials.
 Federal agents are now conducting at least two other high profile inquiries -- one into appropriations by the State Legislature and the other into a leasing deal involving United States Senator Robert Menendez, who was paid thousands of dollars in rent by a social service agency he helped get federal funding when he was a United States Representative -- but it is unclear whether either of those cases will lead to charges. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sharpe James, who was mayor for 20 years, has been under investigation for more than a year. (Photo by Alex Di Suvero for The New York Times)(pg. 42) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); SUBPOENAS (90%); MAYORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); CHARITIES (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); INSURANCE (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TESTIMONY (69%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); FOUNDATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



206 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: As 'Continuing Care' Grows, So Do the Payment Options

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE LARSON

 BODY:
WHEN Robert and Jean LaCamera decided that it was time to move to a retirement community, they knew exactly where they wanted to go. Mr. LaCamera's mother had spent her last years at Whitney Center in Hamden, Conn., a continuing care retirement community offering independent living, assisted-living services and a nursing home, all on one campus. ''It was an excellent experience for her,'' Mrs. LaCamera said.
 When the LaCameras joined the community in 2006, they were offered a payment choice that hadn't existed when Mr. LaCamera's mother joined in 1979. The couple could either pay an entrance fee of roughly $230,000, which would become nonrefundable after a few years, or a much larger fee, topping $330,000, part of which would be refunded to the couple if they moved, or to their estate if they died. They also pay a monthly fee of roughly $4,100.
Ultimately, the couple chose the smaller entrance fee. ''It made the most sense,'' Mrs. LaCamera, 81, said, because the couple needed their remaining assets to support them in retirement. 
 Traditionally, continuing care retirement communities, which offer the prospect of lifetime care on a single campus, have charged hefty entrance fees as well as monthly fees; in some cases, the monthly fees do not increase if residents move to a higher level of care.
 But the number and variety of payment plans have expanded rapidly, along with the number of new facilities: some 20 to 30 new communities have been built each year for the past decade, and more than 2,200 are now in operation.
 Many communities, like Whitney Center, have added refundable entry fees. Others are charging lower upfront and monthly fees but covering little or no health care. And a few require residents to buy their residences. While this growing array of payment options has in some cases made these communities more affordable, it can also create potential for misunderstanding. 
 ''Gone are the days when I could explain everything about C.C.R.C.'s in an hour and a half,'' said Maggie Stark, director of admissions and marketing at Kendal at Oberlin, a continuing care retirement community in Ohio. ''Now it takes many, many visits.''
 Like most of Kendal's nine other retirement communities, Kendal at Oberlin now offers two different Type A contracts and one Type B contract, with three levels of refundability for each.
 The basic concept of C.C.R.C.'s is quite simple: the communities invest the large entrance fees and part of the monthly fees to subsidize assisted living and nursing home care. 
 While the idea is simple, the variations are anything but. Most of the contracts fall into three categories. Type A's, or ''life care,'' contracts, promise to care for residents for the rest of their lives without significantly increasing their monthly fees. Type B, or ''modified,'' contracts, provide a certain number of free days in assisted living or nursing homes, then charge for additional care. With Type C, or ''fee for service'' contracts, residents pay more when they need more care. 
 ''For people who are really worried about outliving their money, Type A is the best choice,'' said Margery Schiller, a financial planner in Brandon, Fla., who helped the LaCameras evaluate their retirement options. ''It provides the most peace of mind because everything is included in the monthly fee.'' 
 Life care communities tend to be more expensive than other models because they cover more. On the other hand, they save residents money by offsetting the need for long-term care insurance. For most life care residents, ''if you have long-term care insurance, keep it in place for a year or two and make sure you're settled into the community and staying put,'' Ms. Schiller said. ''If you find no problems and are happy, then cancel it.'' 
 As recently as 1998, Type A communities were by far the most common type, with 42 percent of the market, according to Zeigler Senior Living Finance, which underwrites such communities. But that has changed with the proliferation of payment models: in 2005, Type A communities accounted for just 29 percent of the total. During the same period, Type B contracts grew to 19 percent, from 16 percent, and Type C contracts, combined with an emerging fee-for-service contract called the ''rental model,'' grew to 47 percent from 36 percent. 
 Fee-for-service communities are gaining popularity because their entrance fees are typically fully or partially refundable, and monthly fees tend to be lower because they do not include health care. Some residents prefer this pay-as-you-go model. 
 ''You don't know ahead of time if you're going to need that kind of care or not,'' said Vera Hemingway, 83, a resident of Highland Springs in Dallas, one of 19 developments managed by Erickson Retirement Communities. Mrs. Hemingway and her husband, Richard, 79, moved to Highland Springs when it opened last fall, drawn mainly by its many on-site conveniences, from a beauty parlor to a medical clinic. 
 The fully refundable entrance fee of $218,000 was appealing, too. ''We'd like our children to receive that money back when we die,'' Mrs. Hemingway said. The couple currently pays roughly $2,400 a month. If they need more care, they will pay out of pocket. ''When that time comes, we'll hope for the best,'' she said. 
 As a hedge against future care costs, residents in Type B and C communities sometimes hang on to their long-term care insurance; some communities offer discounts for insured residents. And some life care communities are lowering their costs for residents with long-term care insurance. Depending on their policy, a couple with long-term care insurance could pay just $145,400 to join Kendal at Oberlin, rather than $202,000 without the policy. 
 In the past, most entrance fees at the communities were what is known as ''declining refundable.'' Such fees are partially refundable when residents first move in, but become nonrefundable after a certain number of months. Although partially and fully refundable entrance fees are spreading rapidly, some residents still prefer to pay the lower, declining refundable fee and invest their remaining assets on their own.
 ''I would never consider a refundable entrance fee,'' said Ken Roose, 87, a retired economist and longtime resident of Kendal at Oberlin. People who choose that option, he said, are basically asking a community to invest more of their money for them, ''and, to me, that does not make sense.''
 But he understands why Kendal now offers a refundable option: some potential residents, he said, may not come in the door without it.
 Retirees who prefer to manage their own assets are sometimes drawn to communities like one in North Carolina, the Cedars of Chapel Hill, where residents buy their homes. Nellie Snook, 85, chose the Cedars in 2004 primarily because she liked its vibrant Chapel Hill location, as well as the security of on-campus care. But the idea of owning her home also appealed to her and her son, Garry, who helped her evaluate communities. ''We didn't do this as an investment,'' Mr. Snook said, ''But ownership was one of the attractions.'' 
 At the Cedars, newly built condos sell for $535,000 to $847,000. Those built in 2004, when the community opened, now sell for as much as 40 percent above their original price, according to Bob Woodruff, the president of the Cedars.
 The total cost of a home includes an initial membership fee of 10 percent of the home's value, and monthly fees range from $1,900 to $4,200 for a single person. 
 The Cedars offers a Type Bcontract promising 90 days of free nursing home care, then charging $154 a day for a private room (compared with $254 for nonresidents). 
 One useful resource for cutting through confusion is the Complete Directory of Continuing Care Retirement Communities, which lists 2006 data about more than 900 C.C.R.C.'s; electronic copies are available for $10 at www.ccrdata.org. Another, of course, is legal counsel: many communities recommend that residents have a lawyer review their contract and the community's disclosure document, which contains information on the community's financing. 
 ''You want to understand what you are actually buying for your monthly fee,'' said Steve Maag, director of continuing care and assisted living at the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging, an industry group. ''Some have extensive housekeeping and laundry; some have none. Some include one meal a day; some have three.'' 
 RESIDENTS should also ask what will happen if they need more care: Will they incur additional fees? Who decides if they need to move? 
 In 2006, a resident sued Channing House, a community in Palo Alto, Calif., saying she was required to move to assisted living against her will. The lawsuit is pending. A Channing House spokesman said the community was following the terms of its contract, as well as state guidelines, in requiring the move. 
 But for all the complexity of contracts and the vigilance they require, the most crucial question is perhaps the most basic, according to Larry Minnix, the president of the aging services association. ''You need to ask, 'What happens if I run out of money?' What you want to hear them say is, 'If you run out of money, you're still going to live here.' '' 
 Some communities, particularly nonprofit life care communities like Whitney Court, have a charitable fund to support residents even if their money runs out.
 ''It's a tremendous sense of security to know that no matter what happens, you'll be taken care of,'' Mrs. LaCamera said, ''and that you will not be a burden either financially or in the way of care, for your children.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert and Jean LaCamera in the arts and crafts room at Whitney Center, the continuing care retirement community where they live in Hamden, Conn. The couple had a choice of entrance fees. (Photo by Alan S. Orling for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



207 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Is It Just a Strong Market, or the Bubble, Part 2?

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is close to where it stood just before the bursting of the Internet bubble in March 2000. That makes some investors nervous: Could the market be forming another bubble?
 On the surface, at least, there doesn't seem to be inordinate cause for concern. Current conditions certainly look different from those of March 2000. But several subsurface issues suggest that we shouldn't be too sanguine about the possibility of avoiding another bubble. 
One factor that suggests a big difference between current conditions and those of early 2000 is the price-to-earnings ratio of the S.& P. 500. The ratio is now 18.1, using S.& P. data on trailing 12-month reported earnings. That's within shouting distance of the average P/E since 1927, which stands at 16, but far below the 29.4 at the March 2000 market top. This suggests that while the market may not be undervalued, it is not nearly as overvalued as it was when the Internet bubble burst.
 Confidence in this conclusion weakens, however, if you take a longer perspective and examine the ratio of the S.& P. 500's price to average earnings over the last 10 years, rather than to earnings over the trailing 12 months. Clifford S. Asness, managing principal at AQR Capital Management in Greenwich, Conn., says that such a focus makes sense, because 12-month earnings are quite volatile. This helps explain why P/E ratios based on 12-month earnings have such a spotty record of identifying overvalued markets, he said.
 ''P/E ratios based on 10-year average earnings, adjusted for inflation, make much more sense for this purpose,'' he added. And though that 10-year average ratio for the S.& P. 500, now at 27.4, is lower than it was in March 2000 , when it stood at 46.1, it is still at one of its highest levels ever. Other than the years associated with the Internet bubble, in fact, there has been no period since 1929 when the 10-year average was higher. 
 Another factor that provides solace to some people is investor sentiment, which is certainly less euphoric than it was at the height of the Internet bubble, when stock-picking seemed to be the national pastime. But, again, a look below the surface suggests that you shouldn't put too much weight on the apparent contrast.
 Several academic studies suggest that current sentiment isn't likely to be low enough to prevent another bubble from forming. One such study, ''Overreactions, Momentum, Liquidity and Price Bubbles in Laboratory and Field Asset Markets,'' appeared in 2000 in The Journal of Psychology and Financial Markets, now The Journal of Behavioral Finance. Its authors were Gunduz Caginalp, a professor of mathematics at the University of Pittsburgh, and two professors affiliated with the Interdisciplinary Center for Economic Science at George Mason University, David P. Porter and Vernon L. Smith. Professor Smith was one of the 2002 Nobel laureates in economics.
 In an interview, Professor Porter said that one conclusion of this study -- as well as other such studies of which he is aware -- is that investors become largely immune to bubble-causing behavior only after living through the bursting of two successive bubbles. Because of this, the typical pattern is for a burst bubble to be followed by a somewhat less extreme version of the original -- a phenomenon that some call a bubble echo. This pattern has appeared so consistently and so regularly in psychological experiments, Professor Porter said, ''that you can almost set your clock according to it.''
 Does the decline in the real estate market over the last couple of years count as the echo of the Internet bubble, meaning that we needn't worry as much about another collapse in the overall stock market? Unfortunately not, Professor Porter said. The immunity appears to apply only when the echo occurs in the same, or in a very similar, asset class. The real estate market, he said, is too different from the stock market to qualify. 
 JUST because a bubble echo is likely at some point, however, doesn't mean we're in one right now, Professor Porter added. But he also pointed out that researchers have found that a market decline after the bursting of a bubble echo tends to be larger the more years have passed since the first bubble popped. And even if a bubble has already formed, he said, his research can't be used to predict when it might burst.
 Nevertheless, he said, no one should conclude that a new bubble is impossible just because the Internet bubble is still fresh in our minds. 
 In an interview, Professor Smith said that while he didn't think current market valuations were as extreme as those of March 2000, he still believes that stocks are vulnerable to a significant decline. That's partly why he is holding a good amount of cash in his own portfolio.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



208 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Israel Discovers Oil

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: BEERSHEBA, Israel 

 BODY:
Lucien Bronicki is one of Israel's foremost experts in geothermal power, but when I ran into him last week at Ben Gurion University, in Israel's Negev Desert, all he wanted to talk about was oil wells. Israel, he told me, had discovered oil.
 Pointing to a room full of young Israeli high-tech college seniors, Mr. Bronicki remarked: ''These are our oil wells.'' 
 It was quite a scene. Once a year Ben Gurion students in biomedical engineering, software, electrical engineering and computing create elaborate displays of their senior projects or -- as in the case of a student-made robot that sidled up to me -- demonstrate devices they've invented.
 On this occasion, Yossi Vardi, the godfather of Israeli venture capitalism -- ever since he backed the four young Israelis who invented the first Internetwide instant messaging system, Mirabilis, which was sold to AOL for $400 million in 1998 -- brought some of his venture capital pals, like Mr. Bronicki, down to Ben Gurion to scout out potential start-ups and to mentor the grads.
 The first student exhibit I visited was by Yuval Sharoni, 26, an electrical engineering senior, whose project was titled an ''Innovative Covariance Matrix for Point Target Detection in Hyperspectral Images'' (which has to do with military targeting). When I told him I was from The Times, he declared: ''This project is going to make the front page, I'm telling you.'' The cover of Popular Mechanics, maybe, but it could one day make the Nasdaq, where Israel now has the most companies listed of any nation outside of the United States.
 ''Today, every Israeli Jewish mother wants her son to be a dropout and go create a start-up,'' said Mr. Vardi, who is currently invested in 38 different ones.
 Which gets to the point of this column: If you want to know why Israel's stock market and car sales are at record highs -- while Israel's government is paralyzed by scandals and war with Hamas and doesn't even have a finance minister -- it's because of this ecosystem of young innovators and venture capitalists. Last year, VCs poured about $1.4 billion into Israeli start-ups, which puts Israel in a league with India and China.
 Israel is Exhibit A of an economic phenomenon I see a lot these days. Of course, competition between countries and between companies still matters. But when the world becomes this flat -- with so many distributed tools of innovation and connectivity empowering individuals from anywhere to compete, connect and collaborate -- the most important competition is between you and your own imagination, because energetic, innovative and connected individuals can now act on their imaginations farther, faster, deeper and cheaper than ever before.
 Those countries and companies that empower their individuals to imagine and act quickly on their imagination are going to thrive. So while there are reasons to be pessimistic about Israel these days, there is one huge reason for optimism: this country has a culture that nurtures and rewards individual imagination -- one with no respect for limits or hierarchies, or fear of failure. It's a perfect fit with this era of globalization.
 ''We are not investing in products or business plans today, but in people who have the ability to imagine and connect dots,'' said Nimrod Kozlovski, a top Israeli expert on Internet law who also works with start-ups. Israel is not good at building big companies, he explained, but it is very good at producing people who say, ''Wouldn't it be great if you could do this ,'' then create a start-up to do it -- which is later bought out and expanded by an Intel, Microsoft or Google. 
 ''The motto here is not work hard but dream hard,'' Mr. Kozlovski added. ''I had some guy come see me the other day and say, 'You know Google? They make a lot of money, very famous, right? They're not that good. We have a much better system that correlates to the cognitive process of searching. Google is worth $50 billion? Probably we can match their numbers.' He was dead serious.'' 
 My guess is that the flatter the world becomes, the wider the economic gap we will see between those countries that empower individual imagination and those that don't. High oil prices can temporarily disguise that gap, but it's growing.
 Iran's ignorant president, who keeps babbling about how Israel is going to disappear, ought to pay a visit to Ben Gurion and see these rooms buzzing with student innovators, with projects called ''Integration Points for IP Multimedia Subsystems'' and ''Algorithms for Obstacle Detection and Avoidance.'' These are oil wells that don't run dry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXPLORATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (78%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (75%); HAMAS (73%); ENGINEERING SOFTWARE (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); INSTANT MESSAGING (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (97%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



209 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1781 words

HEADLINE: Raw

BYLINE: By JAY McINERNEY. 
Jay McInerney's most recent books are ''The Good Life,'' a novel, and ''A Hedonist in the Cellar: Adventures in Wine.''

 BODY:
THE ZEN OF FISH
 The Story of Sushi, From 
 Samurai to Supermarket.
 By Trevor Corson.
 372 pp. HarperCollins Publishers. $24.95. THE SUSHI ECONOMY
 Globalization and the Making 
 of a Modern Delicacy.
 By Sasha Issenberg.
 323 pp. Gotham Books. $26.
When I first tried sushi in Tokyo in the fall of 1977, I thought of myself as an intrepid culinary adventurer who, if he survived the experience, would return to America to tell the incredible, unbelievable tale of the day he ate raw fish on rice balls. Someday, perhaps, I would tell my children. By the time I returned to the States two years later, I found sushi bars in Midtown Manhattan; within a few years, nigiri sushi became the signature forage of the Young Urban Professional. As for my children, they eat sushi three or four times a week. They developed a taste for it when they were living in Nashville, Tenn., which, though it lacks any convincing French or Italian restaurants, has several fine sushi bars. From very different perspectives, ''The Zen of Fish,'' by Trevor Corson, and ''The Sushi Economy,'' by Sasha Issenberg, attempt to account for the transformation of sushi from a provincial street snack to the international luxury cuisine of the 21st century. 
 Although raw fish is generally the first thing we think of when we think of sushi, it didn't start out that way. ''The Japanese tradition of eating fresh raw fish has nothing to do with sushi,'' Corson tells us. ''Sushi began as a way of preserving old fish.'' Rice farmers in Southeast Asia would pack fish in jars with cooked rice to preserve it. The fermented result tasted more like stinky cheese than like fresh hamachi; the Japanese, in adopting the strategy, gradually shortened the fermentation time, developing a fresher style of sushi that still relied on fermented rice for its distinctive sour taste. This fish, usually carp, was salted and pressed in rice under a stone. Sashimi, in the form of raw fish, was something else again, an aristocratic delicacy little known to the urban masses. 
 The eureka moment when fresh fish was first squished onto a ball of vinegared rice and eaten on the spot is lost to us, but it happened somewhere in Edo (soon to be Tokyo) during the 19th century. Some hungry soul got tired of waiting for his sushi to ferment. What we now think of as sushi -- Edo-mae nigiri -- was invented as fast food for laborers, served by outdoor vendors from small carts. Soy sauce was offered, probably to mimic the fermented fish taste of the earlier style. The Tokyo earthquake of 1923 leveled the city and dispersed many of the city's sushi chefs, who took Tokyo-style nigiri sushi to other parts of the country. 
 In the mid-1960s a restaurant called Tokyo Kaikan opened one of the first sushi bars in Los Angeles. There, a chef named Ichiro Mashita, unable to find any fresh toro, started substituting creamy avocado for the fatty tuna belly, eventually coming up with the California roll, winning the eternal gratitude of my son Barrett and millions of other gaijin. Los Angeles was the beachhead for the sushi invasion, attracting many Japanese chefs eager to make their fortunes and to circumvent the grueling 10-year apprenticeship required in their homeland. Others followed Japan's corporate envoys to New York during the boom years of the Japanese economy. In 1983, the New York Times restaurant critic, Mimi Sheraton, awarded four stars to Hatsuhana, a Midtown sushi den -- the official imprimatur for the new cuisine. 
 Trevor Corson's ''Zen of Fish'' bounces between Los Angeles and Japan, as he follows the trials of a recent class of the California Sushi Academy, founded in 1998 to train would-be American sushi chefs. It's a clever narrative strategy -- the reader learns the practice and history of sushi alongside the students. On the other hand, his decision to focus on the least promising student -- a young woman who is squeamish about touching fish and is afraid of sharp knives -- makes for a sometimes frustrating and pedestrian journey. Given Corson's apparent mastery of Japanese and of original source material, one can only assume the samurai and Zen cliches result from the student's limited point of view. (''Kate liked Toshi immediately. He was cheerful and stern at the same time, like a monk who was also a kung-fu warrior.'') The monk/warrior head of the academy, Toshi Sugiura, comes across as a colorful if enigmatic character, a profligate party boy and self-appointed guardian of sushi traditions. On the other hand, Corson's portrait of the American students, as opposed to the glimpses we catch of the single Japanese acolyte, could be used to buttress the view that gaijin in general, and women in particular, don't have the stuff to make it behind the sushi bar. But hey, somebody's got to man the counter at all those sushi bars springing up in Oklahoma and Nebraska. 
 Fortunately, the classroom scenes are intercut with authoritative, often amusing, chapters on sushi history, marine biology and the physiognomy of taste. While the students hack away at mackerel, Corson serves up bite-size explanations of the invention of soy sauce, the sex life of red algae and the importance of umami, that mysterious fifth taste that underlies so much of Eastern cuisine. His chapter on rice, a subject that Americans take for granted, is itself worth the price of the book. 
 Corson's chapter on the bluefin tuna is surprisingly brief. Sasha Issenberg, on the other hand, devotes most of ''The Sushi Economy'' to the bluefin, which he considers the totem animal of the global economy. ''In few places,'' Issenberg writes, ''are the complex dynamics of globalization revealed as visibly as in the tuna's journey from the sea to the sushi bar.'' 
 Issenberg posits the bluefin tuna market and the sushi economy in general as an instance of good globalization, a theoretical counterpoint to the Slow Food movement, founded in 1986 to protest the opening of a McDonald's in Rome; the resulting coalition promotes the virtues of regional cuisine and ingredients and ''amounts to what some have labeled the culinary wing of the antiglobalization movement,'' he writes. But the global sushi trade, as Issenberg portrays it, is a curiously old-fashioned market subject to the vagaries of nature and a complex network of personal relationships. ''It is one of the last areas in which human beings remain hunter-gatherers.'' Issenberg takes this argument pretty far. ''Through sushi, we see that ... integrity does not need to come only from defending the tribal honor of terroir, but is to be uncovered in movement, as well. Conquering distance, geographical and cultural, can be a triumph of the liberal values of mobility and interdependence, empowering local communities instead of threatening them.'' Environmentalists might take exception to this sunny characterization; wild bluefin stocks are not likely to survive our appetite for maguro, and the jets that transport their carcasses from Boston to Tokyo aren't doing the ozone any good. Still, he's got a good story to tell. 
 In 19th-century Tokyo, tuna was regarded as an inferior fish; the Japanese craving for the red flesh of bluefin and bigeye didn't really develop until after the war. The growing appetite for bluefin, the most prized of the tuna, mirrored the growth of the Japanese economy, depleting wild stocks in the waters around Japan. Meantime, a Japan Airlines employee named Akira Okazaki was trying to find a way to fill the empty cargo holds of returning JAL flights, planes that had flown to North America full of Japanese manufactured and electronic goods. Not long after visiting Japan's famous Tsukiji fish market and observing the high price paid for bluefin tuna, Okazaki learned that the fish were abundant in the Eastern Atlantic, where they were considered worthless. After convincing reluctant fishermen on Prince Edward Island to seek out bluefin, and after much trial and error with refrigeration, the first important auction of Canadian bluefin was held at Tsukiji on Aug. 14, 1972. By summer of 1974, 91 percent of outgoing cargo on JAL flights from Canada was bluefin bound for Tokyo. 
 ''Sushi had started as a form of preservation,'' Issenberg says, ''but it was becoming precisely the opposite: a way of using the infrastructure of modernity to chaperone a delicate dish around the world.'' Over the course of two decades, he writes, ''the average price for bluefin tuna paid to Atlantic fisherman rose by 10,000 percent.'' By the mid-'70s, according to Issenberg, a bluefin caught in the Atlantic on Sunday could be eaten for lunch in Tokyo on Wednesday. Which, conveniently enough, is about the exact amount of time it takes bluefin to develop optimal flavor and texture. ''The Japanese have a nickname for bluefin -- shibi,'' Corson writes. ''It means 'four days.' In the age before refrigeration, when someone caught a bluefin, he buried it in the ground for four days before eating it.'' 
 Issenberg follows the tuna backward from the Tsukiji market to its sources in the North Atlantic, the Mediterranean and the South Pacific, stopping along the way at Gloucester, Mass., where the Rev. Sun Myung Moon entered the market; at Port Lincoln in South Australia, home of the Tunarama Festival and a thriving bluefin ranching industry; and at Japan's Kinki University, a center of tuna breeding research. Often entertaining, his journey is at times painfully detailed and deliberate; it takes him two pages to describe the unloading of a single tuna from boat to dock, a passage that feels longer than the flight to Japan. 
 He recounts the journey of Nobu Matsuhisa, the world's most famous sushi purveyor, from Japan to New York and London by way of Peru, Alaska and Los Angeles. And, more ominously he follows the sushi mogul Takamasa Ueno's journeys from Hokkaido to Dalian, China. If the consumption of sushi is, as Issenberg proposes, a key indicator of modernization, a signifier of participation in the globalized economy, then it's only a matter of time before China and India become major markets for bluefin tuna. ''To eat sushi,'' he writes, ''is to display an access to advanced trade networks, of full engagement in world commerce.'' The ''Iron Chef'' star Masaharu Morimoto is opening a place in Mumbai. When people start eating toro in Calcutta, Issenberg says, ''India will make a successful claim to a Western ideal of modernity that no number of outsourced call centers can.'' Whether the tuna breeding and ranching industries will be able to keep pace with the demand for the new international luxury cuisine after the inevitable collapse of the wild fishery is another story. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nick Dewar) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); RICE FARMING (70%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



210 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; GOLF; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Pak Inspires New Generation of Countrywomen

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

DATELINE: HAVRE DE GRACE, Md., June 9 

 BODY:
Darkness used to be Se Ri Pak's trusty companion on the L.P.G.A. Tour, her long days of practice fueled by a fervent belief that the last one to leave the course was destined to finish first. 
 So it was strange to hear Pak speak about cutting out of Bulle Rock Golf Course while plenty of sunlight remained for lining up putts and launching drives. It was midafternoon on the day before she officially qualified, at age 29, for the L.P.G.A. Tour and World Golf Halls of Fame with her opening round at the L.P.G.A. Championship. Pak, the defending champion, was intent on adhering to her new routine. 
 ''Go back to hotel,'' she said, ''have great dinner with friends and then maybe some bottles of beer.'' 
 Pak never took the time to drink in her success when she was the toast of the Tour. Between 1998 and 2004, she won 22 events, including 4 majors, and steadily grew to hate the game. 
 ''Before, I felt like I was having fun,'' Pak said in an interview here. ''But I don't think I was having fun. There was always pressure, just wanting to be really, really great and pushing myself so hard.''
 Then, as now, her golf swing was flawless. It was her life that was out of alignment.
 It was not until an injury sidelined her in 2005 that Pak was able to stand back and admire her body of work, and see herself as others did, as a pioneer. 
 ''In Korea, people who don't know golf know Se Ri,'' Pak's compatriot Birdie Kim said. 
 When Pak joined the Tour in 1998 at age 20 after breezing through the L.P.G.A. qualifying tournament, the membership included only one other South Korean citizen, Ji Hyun Suh. 
 Golf was considered a rich man's game in South Korea until Pak turned it into a kind of cultural revolution. In a two-month stretch during her rookie season, she won four events -- two of them majors -- and a star was born. 
 Millions of South Koreans stayed up all night to watch the live coverage of her victory over Jenny Chuasiriporn, an amateur, in a 20-hole playoff at the 1998 United States Women's Open. At a time when South Koreans had little confidence in their economy, Pak became the gold standard for a generation. 
 This year, 45 South Korean-born players are on the Tour, a dozen of whom started playing golf in or after 1998. Of the 84 golfers who made the cut here, 19, including Pak, were South Korean. One of them, Na On Min, is leading this tournament with 18 holes to play. Pak, 11 shots back after a 74, is the idol of most junior golfers, Min said Saturday. She added, ''So if I win this tournament, it's like no way to describe it.''
 Pak was a sprinter, a hurdler and a shot-putter before her father, Joon Chul Pak, steered her into golf when she was 14.
 He once said he made her play because he had some vague idea ''that golf would bring her money.'' 
 Under her father's watchful eye, Pak practiced on the range for hours. Sometimes in the winter, icicles would form in her hair while she hit balls. She regularly ran 15 flights of stairs, forward and backward, to build her lower-body strength. 
 To train his daughter's mind, Joon Chul had her hit golf balls in a cemetery at night and watch pit bulls fight. 
 Pak was trained to be a machine, but even as she was cranking out victories, she said, she felt strangely unfulfilled. 
 ''It was like, hey, I'm missing something,'' she said. 
 In 2001 and 2002, Pak played brilliantly, posting 10 L.P.G.A. victories in that span -- five each year -- only to be overshadowed by Annika Sorenstam, who won 19 times. 
 Pak redoubled her efforts to become No. 1, and all it got her was exhausted. By 2004, she had little left in her tank. She won only once that year, at the Michelob Ultra Open, but it was a monumental victory, giving her enough points to qualify as a Hall of Famer.
 Her induction would have to wait three years, until she met the 10-year Tour membership requirement. That loomed like an eternity to the burned-out Pak. Recalling those days, she said, ''I hated to be on the golf course.'' 
 At the 2005 Women's British Open, Pak injured the middle finger of her left hand while hitting out of the rough and had to take the next few months off to let it heal. 
 Pak's friend and mentor, Nancy Lopez, called the injury ''a blessing in disguise.'' Delivered from her golfing compulsions, Pak hung out with friends and forged an identity away from the course. She returned to the Tour last year feeling like a new person and won her 23rd tournament and 5th major at the L.P.G.A. Championship. When she is inducted later this year, she will become the L.P.G.A. Tour Hall's 23rd member. (Dinah Shore is an honorary member.)
 One day last week, as Pak prepared to defend her title, the practice green at Bulle Rock was alive with the sound of Korean. It was music to the ears of Pak, who was the center of the conversation, literally and metaphorically.
 ''First time it felt a little weird to hear so many players speaking Korean,'' Pak said. ''Now it just feels comfortable.'' She added: ''I'm really, really proud to see how many players have made it from my country. They're young. They have such great dreams. They're really doing well. I'm very happy to see it.'' 
 The young South Koreans are not the only ones who look up to Pak. Lorena Ochoa, the No. 1 player in the world, is one of two golfers from Mexico on the Tour. Her goal is to make her golfing dream as accessible to her countrywomen as Pak has made it to hers. 
 ''I admire her a lot,'' Ochoa said. ''She's very special. Sometimes I don't think she even realizes how big she is.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: When Se Ri Pak, above at the L.P.G.A. Championship, joined the Tour in 1998, there was only one other South Korean player. Now there are 45. (Photo by Pat Crowe II/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); ATHLETES (76%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (71%); BEER & ALE (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (71%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (71%); NORTHERN ASIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



211 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Unprepared for the Rainiest of Days

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
HEY! Good news! I've thought of some new things to worry about. Let's run through some of the threats hanging over our economy:
 First, there's that gigantic trade deficit, approximating $800 billion a year and growing. The deficit tab for oil alone is almost $1 billion a day.
 The only way we can square it up with our creditors is to sell them chunks of our country. We are like a rich drug addict who sells off the family heirlooms to finance his habit. Our habits are oil and Japanese and German cars and French wine and Bolivian tin and Chilean copper, and, little by little, we are transferring ownership of our nation's wealth to pay for it. 
 Some sour day, the world will look at our deficits and at our dollar and say it doesn't want to hold our greenbacks as reserve currency any more. It will say, ''I will take the euro instead,'' or a basket of currencies -- which is already happening. Then the dollar will fall, maybe drastically, and the trade deficit will soar. After all, we're addicts who can't stop buying foreign resources and products. When that happens -- if it does -- the inflation will be staggering.
 And then, of course, we end up as the world's leading industrial basket case, a ward of China in matters economic, our freedom of maneuver hemmed in drastically because foreigners own so much of us and of our labor to service the debts.
 Then there is Medicare, which has an unpaid liability of about $34.2 trillion over the next 75 years, and more like $75 trillion over a longer period. This is perilously close to the value of all of the physical assets of the United States. That has certain implications for whether we can really count on Medicare as we age. 
 Topping all of these worries is the endless supply of people who hate America and want to blow themselves up to hurt us in many corners of the world, including the energy heartland, the Middle East. And of course, there's Vladimir V. Putin's Russia, with a stranglehold on Europe's energy needs. Mr. Putin's Russia has more power over Western Europe than Stalin ever dreamed of. Is this good for a stable world economic order?
 Then there's the apparent -- yes, apparent -- need to cut back on hydrocarbon use to keep the earth from overheating, and the strain that this puts on the economy.
 But here's the new one (Did you think I forgot?): the nation's average hourly wage per worker, adjusted for inflation, has not grown since my old boss, R.N., was president.
 One big reason is that we have a labor force that includes a big lump of low-paid people, and that this lump is growing as fast as they are willing to work. Possibly, the composition of the labor force predicts that the growth of the average wage will be sluggish for some time. This has an effect on consumption of consumer goods, a vast swath of the economy. Eventually, it might change, but it might not. This will have an impact on our ability to compete with other nations in terms of labor-force productivity.
 As Lenin famously asked, ''What is to be done?'' Many years ago, my dad told me a fine aphorism: ''In troubled times, it's better to have more money than less.''
 The future I see is possibly economically shaky. I hope I am wrong. But if I am not, we will need even more money than we ever dreamed if we want to retire.
 When gasoline is $10 a gallon, when the dollar is worth one-third of a euro, when we have had to raise interest rates sharply to defend the dollar, when the government tells us that anyone with income of over $60,000 doesn't get Medicare any more, when the bill for national defense requires a major tax increase -- we are going to wish we had saved a lot more for retirement.
 The world is a troubled place. To my old eyes, it does not look as if it's getting any less troubled.
 In such times, it is extremely good to have large savings. This seems basic. We should all own lots of foreign stocks, lots of diversified exchange-traded funds and index funds and very carefully chosen annuities. But very few of us do. Forty percent of boomers have no savings for retirement. Median savings for retirement among the boomers is barely $25,000. Much of the savings is concentrated among the wealthy.
 It will be too late when we're 75, or even when we're 65. We have to start now. I visited an elderly friend in the hospital in Redwood City, Calif., two weeks ago.
 ''What wisdom do you have to offer ?'' I asked him.
 ''It's better to be rich and healthy than sick and poor,'' he said.
 Start saving, right now. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); EURO (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); MEDICARE (69%); ENERGY DEMAND (66%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



212 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: The Democrats Lag on Warming

 BODY:
When Americans elected a Democratic Congress last November, they were voting to end politics as usual and special interest legislation. On the vital issues of energy independence and global warming they are not only in danger of getting more of the same but also, unless Nancy Pelosi and other Democratic leaders step forward, winding up in worse shape than they were under the Republicans. 
 Exhibit A is a regressive bill drafted by John Dingell, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and Rick Boucher, a Virginia Democrat. For starters, the bill would override the recent Supreme Court decision giving the Environmental Protection Agency authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles, a decision that even President Bush has reluctantly embraced. It would also effectively block efforts by California and 11 other states to regulate and reduce greenhouse gases from vehicles at a time when the states are far ahead of the federal government in dealing with climate change.
 The bill's fuel economy standards for cars and light trucks are weaker than the president's proposals and weaker still than standards the National Academy of Sciences says can be met using off-the-shelf technology. And the bill would open the door to a new generation of coal-to-liquid fuel plants favored by the coal lobby that could double the global warming gases of conventional gasoline. 
 The prospects for useful energy legislation are better in the Senate, where the majority leader, Harry Reid, has cobbled together a package that, with strengthening amendments, could do much to increase efficiency, clean up power plants and enlarge the country's stock of renewable fuels. Mr. Reid must guard against backsliding. But his task is easier than Ms. Pelosi's. He starts with a half-decent bill. She has to play defense against a bad one whose resourceful architect, Mr. Dingell, while sound on most environmental issues, will do almost anything to protect his constituents in the automobile industry. 
 We have some advice for Ms. Pelosi that may not work, but is worth a try. Rewind this movie to 1989, when President George H. W. Bush and a Democratic Congress decided to strengthen the Clean Air Act by clamping down harder on the tailpipe emissions that cause smog and acid rain. The automakers said it couldn't be done, and Mr. Dingell -- who had spent the entire decade trying to weaken the law -- rose to their defense. 
 Then something odd happened. Mr. Dingell's colleagues reasoned with him. The technology existed to clean the air, they pointed out. People would breathe easier, trees wouldn't die, the companies wouldn't go broke. Mr. Dingell thought about it, and while he never became a convert, he stepped aside and let the forces of change roll on.
 Could it happen again? Mr. Dingell agrees that climate change is a big problem. The task now is to persuade him that having served history once, he can do so again. The alternative is further unnecessary delay in dealing with warming -- which would be bad for the Democrats and bad for the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); LOBBYING (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); SMOG (77%); AIR QUALITY (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); ACID RAIN (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); BIOFUELS (67%); APPEALS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (55%)

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (79%); NANCY PELOSI (78%); HARRY REID (58%); RICK BOUCHER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



213 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 228 words

 BODY:
 READING REPORTS -- Signals on inflation will come from reports on the Consumer Price Index (Friday), the Producer Price Index (Thursday) and the Fed's beige book on regional economic conditions (Wednesday). 
 Other reports this week include May retail sales, May import prices and April business inventories (Wednesday); the first-quarter current-account deficit, industrial production and capacity utilization and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Friday). CORPORATE EARNINGS -- Wall Street banks will begin reporting their second-quarter results, with Lehman Brothers (Tuesday) and Goldman Sachs and Bear Stearns (Thursday). Other earnings reports will come from Take-Two Interactive Software (Monday) and Freddie Mac (Thursday). PLAVIX INQUIRY -- Bristol-Myers Squibb is scheduled to plead guilty on Monday to charges that it lied to the government about its proposed settlement of a patent dispute related to the heart drug Plavix. SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS -- Annual meetings will be held by Yahoo (Tuesday) and the mortgage lender Countrywide Financial (Wednesday). The Midwest Air Group's annual meeting Thursday could turn into a battle. A rival, AirTran Holdings, has nominated three people to the board as part of its effort to acquire the company. MEETING ON RATES -- The Bank of Japan will make a decision on interest rates (Friday).

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); IMPORT PRICES (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (72%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING (70%); GUILTY PLEAS (68%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); RETAIL SALES (57%); PATENTS (53%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (70%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (70%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (56%); MIDWEST AIRLINES INC (55%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: TTWO (NASDAQ) (70%); GS (NYSE) (57%); BMY (NYSE) (56%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (70%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (70%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (70%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (70%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007



214 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: States Finding Fiscal Surprise: A Cash Surplus

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Catherine Billey contributed reporting.

 BODY:
State lawmakers across the country, their coffers unexpectedly full of cash, have been handing out tax cuts, spending money on fixing roads, schools and public buildings, and socking something away for less fruitful years.
 Budget surpluses have largely stemmed from higher than expected tax collections -- corporate tax revenues alone were 11 percent higher than budget estimates -- and booming local economies. There has also been some relief in Medicaid spending, which fell from an 11 percent annual growth rate to something closer to 7 percent in the past few years.
More than 40 states have found themselves with more money than they planned as they wound down their regular sessions. Governors in 23 of those states proposed tax cuts, and a majority of states with surpluses chose to shore up their roads, schools and rainy day funds. For example, lawmakers in Utah agreed to a $1 billion bond act to fix state roads and add lane miles, while in Idaho state spending on education outpaced that on Medicaid for the first time in 20 years.
 The extra cash over the last two budget sessions (many states work on a two-year cycle) is at the highest level since 2000, state budget experts say. States, burned by several years of shortfalls, kept their estimates of total revenues on the conservative side and are now reaping plenty. 
 ''Because states cut back so in the early part of the decade,'' said Ray Scheppach, the executive director of the National Governors Association, ''they put off maintenance, they put off building, things like that, so they are beginning to do some one-time spending.''
 Like teenagers who went without allowance, legislators have been working off pent-up demand. Many states are largely using surpluses to tackle long-term and costly problems like the uninsured and crumbling infrastructures. 
 In large part, experts say, states are looking to give relief to taxpayers who have long been howling about property taxes, and to pay back areas that states have been robbing to balance previous budgets.
 ''When states return to a positive balance, they will not normally go back to tax cutting right away,'' said Arturo Perez, a fiscal analyst with the National Conference of State Legislatures, which has tracked the spending of states and tabulated the list of those with surpluses. ''But there has been across the country a growing interest in addressing the issue of property tax levels and burdens.''
 Education -- especially state universities -- has also been long waiting, Mr. Perez said. ''In times of difficulty, states tend to look for areas they can make adjustments to, and higher education represents the largest area of discretionary expenditures,'' he said.
 In the New York area, where legislators are still negotiating budgets, the song is much the same. Connecticut, for example, is looking at a $1 billion surplus for its 2007 fiscal year, and New York and New Jersey are mulling billion-dollar property tax breaks and large increases to the public education budget. 
 In about half a dozen state governments, the transfer of power to Democrats after last November's elections made for a legislative season with more-liberal policymaking, sometimes hand in hand with spending initiatives. Laws extending certain rights to same-sex couples were particularly popular.
 Most state legislatures have been finishing their business in the past few weeks and months, with about a dozen still in session. Laws vary by state, with some lawmakers working in the state capitals only part-time for a few months every two years, and others employed as full-time legislators who convene every January. 
 Over all in the 2007 fiscal year, which ends at the end of this month, state spending in the 50 states totaled $616 billion, an increase of about 8.6 percent over 2006, according to a report by the National Governors Association and National Association of State Budget Officers. The average annual growth rate over the past three decades has been 6.5 percent, the report said. 
 Only a handful of states have had to cut budgets, led by Michigan, which has suffered six straight years of job losses. Texas issued the largest property tax cut in its history -- $14.2 billion for the biennium, representing roughly a one-third decrease for average home owners. 
 North Dakota gave homeowners $118.6 million worth of property tax relief, and Utah offered residents a $220 million tax cut package. In Arkansas, the Legislature reduced the state sales tax on groceries from 6 percent to 3 percent and rendered about 81,000 low-incomes families exempt from paying personal income taxes.
 Nebraska gave residents $420 million in a host of tax cuts, the largest in that state's history. ''Property tax relief was high on the list of the demands from the citizens,'' Mike Flood, speaker of the Legislature, said.
 On the spending side, money was distributed across the board, but transportation and education saw some of the biggest boosts. 
 Arkansas, for instance, earmarked $80 million from its general fund to repair or expand roads and highways, a result, in some part, of that state's estimated $313 million in extra net general revenues in fiscal year 2007. 
 In Wyoming, where the $6.9 billion biennium budget for 2007 and 2008 is 23 percent higher than the prior two-year budget, the Legislature sprung for $100 million to improve the state's highways. 
 Utah lawmakers agreed to pay for the $1 billion bond act for roads with debt service paid out of the state's general fund. ''We have experienced significant growth here,'' said John Massey, Utah's legislative fiscal analyst. ''So it is badly needed.''
 Education has been another legislative priority. Idaho lawmakers increased spending for lower education 5.9 percent and for higher education by 8.4 percent, thanks in part to the $200 million surplus in this year's budget.
 ''Higher education has a more flexible budget, and basically we have kind of used them as our checkbook,'' said Maxine T. Bell, the chairwoman of the state's appropriations committee. ''And you can't keep doing that. The infrastructure gets behind and they raise fees on the students. So this year we were able to give them a pretty good chunk of money, and it was just simply because the economy was in good shape.''
 This week, the Louisiana Legislature, which is still in session, set aside a record amount for higher education, said John Carpenter, the director of that state's joint legislative committee on the budget. 
 Many states have also taken on the expensive and seemingly intractable problem of covering uninsured residents, particularly children. According to a report from the National Governors Association, two-thirds of the nation's governors have plans to expand health care in their 2008 fiscal years, largely through expansions of government-financed health insurance programs and employer mandates.
 For example, Wisconsin is contemplating legislation to cover all of its children by 2010 by expanding programs to those living with family incomes up to 300 percent of the federal poverty level by January 2009 and discounted insurance to those with higher incomes. 
 In Oregon, where legislators are furiously working to wind down the session, lawmakers are deliberating a $60 million increase to a program insuring children via a 84.5 cents-per-pack cigarette tax increase.
 ''The biggest agenda piece right now is to insure all kids in Oregon,'' said Russ Kelley, the spokesman for Oregon's House speaker, Jeff Merkley.
 The governors association estimated that the national budget for health care expansions in 2008 would be $18.4 billion, including federal allotments. 
 Lawmakers in many states have pushed for rainy day funds: Georgia, Colorado, Nebraska and Oklahoma are among them.
 ''We went into the session with a $400 million rainy day fund, which may have been our largest ever,'' said Mike Flood, speaker of the Nebraska Legislature. ''Times have been good to Nebraska.''
 In Oregon, where Democrats gained control of all of state government for the first time in 16 years, lawmakers passed legislation recognizing domestic partnerships, told insurance companies they had to pay for female as well as male contraception and are in the middle of passing bills restricting predatory lending.
 ''It has been 16 years since we have had a major say in things,'' Mr. Kelley said, ''so we have had some things pile up.''
 In Colorado, where Democrats gained control of both chambers and the governor's office for the first time in 45 years, bills were passed to prohibit workplace discrimination based on sexual orientation, ban abstinence-only education and allow gay couples to adopt each other's children. 
 In Iowa, where Democrats controlled the governor's office and both houses for the first time in 42 years, the state's civil rights laws were extended to gays. 
 In Wyoming, at least one law was passed that cost no money, and required no partisanship. Pascopyrum smithii, or western wheatgrass, has now become the state's official grass. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Extra Money'' Forty-two states reported higher than expected revenues this year, allowing lawmakers to set aside money for long-term projects, reduce taxes or set up a rainy day fund. The money can be used through the 2008 fiscal year. States with unexpected resources in the 2007 fiscal year Tex. Amount in millions: $6,987 Pct. of general fund: 19% Fla. Amount in millions: 2,742 Pct. of general fund: 9 Calif. Amount in millions: 1,906 Pct. of general fund: 2 N.J. Amount in millions: 1,900 Pct. of general fund: 6 Alaska Amount in millions: 1,400 Pct. of general fund: 34 Ore. Amount in millions: 1,398 Pct. of general fund: 12 N.Y. Amount in millions: 1,300 Pct. of general fund: 3 Wash. Amount in millions: 1,233 Pct. of general fund: 5 La. Amount in millions: 1,222 Pct. of general fund: 17 Minn. Amount in millions: 1,013 Pct. of general fund: 6 N.C. Amount in millions: 950 Pct. of general fund: 5 N.M. Amount in millions: 575 Pct. of general fund: 11 Utah Amount in millions: 562 Pct. of general fund: 11 Conn. Amount in millions: 553 Pct. of general fund: 4 Ariz. Amount in millions: 550 Pct. of general fund: 5 Mont. Amount in millions: 517 Pct. of general fund: 6 Va. Amount in millions: 530 Pct. of general fund: 3 Mo. Amount in millions: 517 Pct. of general fund: 6 Nev. Amount in millions: 501 Pct. of general fund: 15 Wyo. Amount in millions: 444 Pct. of general fund: 15 S.C. Amount in millions: 432 Pct. of general fund: 7 Hawaii Amount in millions: 430 Pct. of general fund: 8 Ga. Amount in millions: 360 Pct. of general fund: 2 Ark. Amount in millions: 339 Pct. of general fund: 8 Iowa Amount in millions: 310 Pct. of general fund: 6 Pa. Amount in millions: 251 Pct. of general fund: 1 Ohio Amount in millions: 246 Pct. of general fund: 1 Idaho Amount in millions: 238 Pct. of general fund: 9 Ky. Amount in millions: 219 Pct. of general fund: 2 Md. Amount in millions: 215 Pct. of general fund: 2 N.D. Amount in millions: 212 Pct. of general fund: 11 Ala. Amount in millions: 210 Pct. of general fund: 13 Miss. Amount in millions: 208 Pct. of general fund: 4 Ind. Amount in millions: 204 Pct. of general fund: 2 Neb. Amount in millions: 129 Pct. of general fund: 4 Okla. Amount in millions: 95 Pct. of general fund: 2 Colo. Amount in millions: 87 Pct. of general fund: 1 Me. Amount in millions: 86 Pct. of general fund: 3 N.H. Amount in millions: 40 Pct. of general fund: 3 W.Va. Amount in millions: 22 Pct. of general fund: 1 Vt. Amount in millions: 10 Pct. of general fund: 1 S.D. Amount in millions: 7 Pct. of general fund: 1 (Source by National Conference of State Legislators)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); MEDICAID (79%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BONDS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007



215 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Economic Life After College

 BODY:
Commencement is a time for idealism. 
 But economic reality is lurking everywhere, and new college graduates are vulnerable to ambush. They have been told repeatedly that a college degree is an open sesame to the global economy. But that's not necessarily so, according to new research by two economists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Frank Levy and Peter Temin. 
It is true that people with college degrees make more money than people without degrees. The gap has narrowed somewhat in recent years, which is disturbing. But the earning power of college graduates still far outpaces that of less-educated workers.
 The bad news, though, is that a college degree does not ensure a bigger share of the economic pie for many graduates. In recent decades, Mr. Levy and Mr. Temin show, only college-educated women have seen their compensation grow in line with economywide gains in productivity. The earnings of male college graduates have failed to keep pace with productivity gains. 
 Instead, an outsized share of productivity growth, which expands the nation's total income, is going to Americans at the top of the income scale. In 2005, the latest year with available data, the top 1 percent of Americans -- whose average annual income was $1.1 million -- took in 21.8 percent of the nation's income, their largest share since 1929. 
 Administration officials, and other politicians and economists, often assert that income inequality reflects an education gap. But Mr. Levy and Mr. Temin show that in the case of men, the average bachelor's degree is not sufficient to catch the rising tide of the global economy.
 They argue that the real reason inequality is worsening is the lack of strong policies and institutions that broadly distribute economic gains. In the past, for example, a more progressive income tax and unions fostered equality. Affirmative action has also helped and probably accounts, in part, for the pay growth of college-educated women. But such institutions have been eroding and new ones have not yet emerged. At the same time, corporate norms that restrained excessive executive pay have also eroded, making the income gap even greater. 
 Mr. Levy and Mr. Temin conclude that only a reorientation of government policy can restore general prosperity. That's a challenge to the nation's leaders and today's graduates. America needs them to build the new institutions for a global economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); WOMEN (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (68%); INCOME TAX (68%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007



216 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-11 New Plan to Arm Sunnis Against Qaeda Militants With the four-month-old buildup of American troops showing only modest success in curbing insurgent attacks, American commanders are turning to another strategy that they acknowledge is fraught with risk: arming Sunni Arab groups that have promised to fight militants linked to Al Qaeda -- in many cases, their former allies. A1 Iraq's leading political blocs agreed to remove the speaker of Parliament from his position after accusations that his bodyguards assaulted a Shiite lawmaker as the speaker cursed him. Members of Parliament and a spokesman for the speaker's party confirmed the assault and the plans for removal. A6 Gaza Infighting and Air Strikes The Israeli Air Force struck at least two buildings in Gaza City in what appeared to be a response to a raid across the Gaza-Israel border by Palestinian militants. 
Also, internal violence between the main rival Palestinian organizations, Hamas and Fatah, flared again in the Gaza Strip, with at least four people killed over the weekend. A9 Flooding in China Kills 66 Torrential rains in southern China have unleashed surging floodwaters that have swept through small cities and farming villages, claiming at least 66 lives, forcing nearly 600,000 people to be relocated and destroying millions of dollars in property, the state news media reported. A11 Bush Tour Reaches Albania President Bush's visit to Albania was the fifth stop on his eight-day, six-country swing through Europe. The first sitting president to visit the country, he told the Albanians that he supported their effort to join NATO and wanted independence soon for Kosovo without making any fresh commitments. A3 Sri Lankan Rights Panel Report An international panel appointed by the government of Sri Lanka has issued a stark indictment of a presidential commission intended to investigate serious human rights violations, saying that its activities so far ''do not satisfy international norms and standards.'' A11 NATIONAL A12-17 State Budgets Get Boost From Booming Economy State lawmakers across the country have found themselves with more money than they planned as they wind down their regular sessions. Burned by several years of shortfalls, states have kept their estimates of total revenues on the conservative side and are now reaping plenty from higher than expected tax collections and booming local economies. A1 Mixed Views of Romney Bid To many Mormons, Mitt Romney's bid for the presidency is both a proud sign of progress and a cause of real trepidation. Even his many Mormon supporters find the moment fraught with anxiety because his candidacy is bringing intense scrutiny to their church and could worsen longstanding bigotry. A1 Repatriation of the Dead The repatriation of remains has become increasingly commonplace as towns across Mexico have sent their children to find work in the United States. As debate rages in Congress over a proposed immigration law, the journey of the dead suggests that for many Mexicans the sojourn in the United States, legal or not, is meant to be temporary. A1 Immigration Unresolved Senate Democrats opened the door to reviving the stalled immigration measure, calling on Republicans to resolve their internal divisions and produce an agreement on how to move the legislation forward. Republican critics of the bill have called for more chances to eliminate provisions they describe as amnesty. A12 Transit Expansion Project After operating for 32 years, efforts are under way to expand the transit system designed to shuttle between West Virginia University's two campuses, which sit two miles apart. At a cost of up to $40 million a mile, the expansion would extend the system, once derided as a waste of money but now relied on by the city of Morgantown. A12 NEW YORK/REGION B1-5 Medical Marijuana Bill Advances in Connecticut On June 1, the Connecticut State Senate, following the House, passed a bill that allows people with certain medical conditions to grow as many as four marijuana plants for ''palliative use.'' It is unclear whether Gov. M. Jodi Rell will sign the bill, which would make Connecticut the 13th state in the nation to permit marijuana for medical purposes. B1 Border Rules May Hurt Tourism Many people in the Niagara Falls tourism industry fear that a set of new rules suggested by the 9/11 Commission requiring Americans traveling by land or sea to Canada, Mexico, Bermuda and the Caribbean to present a passport could discourage millions of visitors from crossing the border and result in billions of dollars a year in lost revenue. B1 The Pull of Homelessness After reading an article about Johnny Five, a homeless man who lived beneath an abandoned train station in the Bronx, a nonprofit group arranged for him to move into an apartment. But for the next several months, Johnny would drift between his old life and his new one. B1 ARTS E1-10 Two Big Winners at Tonys ''The Coast of Utopia,'' Tom Stoppard's eight-and-a-half-hour epic, was the big winner at the 61st annual Tony Awards, setting the record for the most awards won by any play in Tony history. Meanwhile, the musical ''Spring Awakening,'' won best book, score, direction and choreography and best featured actor. E1 OBITUARIES B7 Richard Rorty A scholar whose inventive work on philosophy, politics, literary theory and more made him one the of world's most influential contemporary thinkers, he was 75. B7 John P. McGovern A Houston real-estate investor whose philanthropy helped endow medical facilities at Duke University and other institutions, he was 85. B7 BUSINESS DAY C1-8 Editor Leaves Publisher Daniel Menaker, the executive editor in chief of the Random House Publishing Group, is leaving the company at the end of June. C1 Agency Loses Big Client Creative Artists Agency has tried expanding its client base from mainstream entertainment companies to a widening ring of customers, but the loss of Hasbro in the month before the release of the movie ''Transformers'' is an example of how cruel the corporate world can be. C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A18-19 Editorials: Pakistan's dictator; a test of the Senate; economic life after college; mental health in prisons. Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof and Paul Krugman. Bridge E6 Crossword E2 Metro Diary B2 TV Listings E9 Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); RELIGION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HAMAS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); AL FATAH (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); RELOCATIONS (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); WEATHER (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (65%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); HAMAS (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (75%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (93%); CHINA (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); KOSOVO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007



217 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; The Business of Health; OVERHAUL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Mandatory Coverage Is Easier Said Than Done

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
IT'S a seemingly simple solution to a nationwide problem: if people do not have health insurance, just require that they buy it. The idea of making coverage compulsory to help reduce the number of uninsured Americans -- currently 45 million -- is gaining momentum. With a law passed last year, Massachusetts became the first state to mandate coverage. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California has supported the idea, proposing that his state do the same. In Illinois, mandatory health insurance has become part of a broader discussion of health reform. 
 Requiring people who can afford health insurance to buy it -- the same way that car owners must buy auto insurance -- appeals to those who believe that mandatory coverage is fairer than asking everyone else, directly or indirectly, to pick up the health care costs of those who choose not to buy it.
In Massachusetts, lawmakers were able to pass the measure because it was viewed as a grand compromise among employers, the government and individuals. 
 But the state is discovering that making health insurance mandatory is easier said than done. It has spent the past year dealing with questions about how much basic coverage people need, and how much they can be expected to pay. (The poorest residents receive free or subsidized coverage.)
 The state has had to work with insurers to create a market for individual insurance where affordable policies were not readily available. With a half-dozen companies, it developed an array of plans that it offered for the first time last month.
 Up to now, Massachusetts has maintained the public's support for the mandate, said Paul B. Ginsburg, a health economist who is president of the Center for Studying Health System Change, a Washington research group. ''So far, there has not been any evidence of uproar,'' he said, because the state has been sensitive to those who may not be able to afford insurance and has been slow to levy a large fine on anyone who fails to get coverage.
 A mandate is critical, however, to helping the state achieve near-universal coverage, Mr. Ginsburg said. The compromise asks something of corporations, the state and individuals. Companies with 11 or more workers that do not offer insurance to their employees are required to help finance the program by paying $295 a year for each worker. The state is providing money from its Medicaid program and some of the hundreds of millions of dollars it normally pays hospitals and clinics each year for care for the uninsured. 
 ''Nobody's done this before, so we're going to be very flexible in our approach,'' said Jon Kingsdale, executive director of the Commonwealth Health Care Connector, the state authority creating the market. After much debate, for example, the state is requiring that plans cover prescription drugs, but it allows some plans to have high deductibles. 
 Nevertheless, forcing people to buy coverage can be difficult, especially when some people do not think they need it. Almost half of the roughly 400,000 uninsured people in Massachusetts are single males, and many young men think ''health insurance is for sissies,'' Mr. Kingsdale said. Because young males are generally healthy, adding them to the pool of insured would most likely reduce the average cost of coverage over all, given that this particular group is not liable to need expensive treatment.
 The goal, therefore, is to generate a market where insurers offer affordable coverage to attract not only these young males but also people who otherwise could not pay for it. The law imposes a fine ($219 the first year and up to half the cost of premiums for the least-expensive policy in 2008) if proof of coverage cannot be shown; residents receive a form to file with their state tax return. 
 Affordability is critical. To address concerns that a slice of the population is too poor to afford a policy yet not poor enough for free or subsidized coverage, as many as a fifth of the state's uninsured may be exempted from the law. 
 Which means that universal coverage remains an elusive goal. ''We've gotten over a number of significant policy humps,'' said John McDonough, the executive director of a Boston consumer advocacy group, Health Care for All. He cautioned, however, ''This is not the magic solution that produces genuine, affordable coverage to everyone.'' 
 Most people in the United States rely on their employers or a government program for coverage, and individuals seeking insurance on their own are faced with a difficult, sometimes impossible, task. In a 2005 survey, the Commonwealth Fund, a nonprofit group in New York specializing in health care research, found that nearly 9 out of 10 people who thought about buying individual health insurance never did. Some of those surveyed said they could not find a policy they thought they could afford; others said they were denied coverage.
 Shopping for insurance ''is not easy or straightforward,'' said Parimal Patel, a retired executive in Bedford, Mass., 20 miles outside of Boston. Mr. Patel and his wife are not eligible for Medicare yet, so he looked for a plan to replace the coverage provided by his former employer. He found a comprehensive policy for both of them for $1,350 a month, he said, several hundred dollars less than the policies available before the state worked with insurers under the new law. 
 To create a viable market for people like Mr. Patel, Massachusetts took several steps, including merging the markets for individual insurance with one for small groups, thus spreading the risk to lower costs. It asked some insurers to come back with plans with lower premiums after reviewing their original bids. 
 A result, Mr. Kingsdale said, has been plans that offer better insurance for less money. Before the law was passed, a 37-year-old in Boston, for example, would have had to pay $335 a month for a policy with no coverage for prescription drugs and a $5,000 annual deductible. That individual could now buy a plan, including drug coverage, for $175 a month and a deductible of $2,000. To appeal to young adults, the insurers are offering policies for people 19 to 26 years old for about $100 a month.
 But some people still find the plans too expensive, especially because the state has mandated that the plans meet certain standards, like prescription-drug coverage. 
 ''If you make everyone buy a Cadillac, you're going to have more people who can't afford it,'' said Devon M. Herrick, a senior fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis, a nonprofit research group in Dallas that favors market-oriented solutions. 
 Massachusetts was also able to lean heavily on the state's insurers, which are regional nonprofits, like Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts and Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, as it tried to figure out how to lower the cost of these plans. ''We've had extraordinary support and cooperation from the local health plans and, frankly, from everyone else, the hospitals and doctors,'' Mr. Kingsdale said. 
 Whether other states will be as successful with insurance companies is unclear, said Edward Kaplan, an executive with the Segal Company, a New York consulting firm that works with employers and others on benefits issues. Many areas of the country are dominated by large national insurers, which may not be as motivated to cooperate in such reforms. 
 It remains uncertain whether Massachusetts can continue to find the money to pay for free or subsidized coverage, and insurers are also waiting to see whether they can afford the low premiums they are offering. States with more uninsured residents and fewer resources might have trouble finding the money for a similar plan.
 Before an individual mandate becomes as commonplace as compulsory auto insurance, Massachusetts must see whether the requirement for insurance helps reduce significantly the number of the uninsured at an acceptable cost. ''We'll try to be the test laboratory for the rest of the country,'' Mr. Kingsdale said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: AFFORDABLE -- Jon Kingsdale, executive director of the Commonwealth Health Care Connector, in Boston. The group is a state authority in charge of overseeing an insurance market for individual buyers. (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); HEALTH CARE (88%); INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); HOSPITALS (68%); EXECUTIVES (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007



218 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; The Business of Health; ECONOMICS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1709 words

HEADLINE: Pinning Down The Money Value Of a Person's Life

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
HOW much is your life worth? How about a year of life? How much is your vision worth? What about being pain-free? Able to walk unassisted? Have sex?
 Unanswerable questions all. Or maybe not.
Economists are sometimes accused of knowing the prices of everything and the value of nothing. Now they are trying to answer what may be the most difficult question of all -- the price of health.
 The exercise has enormous real-world implications that are reverberating as health care technology becomes more expensive and health care spending becomes a bigger burden on companies, taxpayers and patients. The price of health is part of the calculus in determining whether a new medicine or treatment is worth the cost.
 While making such determinations may seem unsavory, some countries, including Britain, are explicitly using the cost-effectiveness of treatments in deciding what drugs to cover. Even in the United States, where there is a general reluctance to limit health care based on a treatment's expense, costs and benefits are weighed, sometimes in subtle ways. 
 ''The reality is we have to make these comparisons, and we either do them implicitly or explicitly,'' said Dana Goldman, director of health economics at the RAND Corporation, a nonprofit research institute in Santa Monica, Calif.
 To make the process more explicit, economists want to compare the cost-effectiveness of different treatments in a single measurement, one that doctors and policy makers will trust enough to use. 
 So, how much is your life worth? You may think the answer is infinity, that no amount of money could compensate you for the loss of your life.
 But people do put a price tag on their existence. Workers accept riskier jobs for higher pay, for example. And the rich tend to think their lives are worth more than poor people's.
 Studies of real-world situations produce relatively consistent results, suggesting that average Americans value a year of life at $100,000 to $300,000, said Peter J. Neumann, director of a program at Tufts-New England Medical Center that measures the cost-effectiveness of new treatments.
 Kidney dialysis treatment provides another data point to suggest that estimate is fair. Keeping a patient with kidney failure alive on dialysis costs about $70,000 per year, according to a federally financed survey of dialysis clinics. But no one has suggested that dialysis is too expensive or that it should be limited.
 So a year of life is worth at least $100,000.
 But that figure only begins to answer the question of what health is worth. Dialysis saves lives directly. But most medical care has a more modest goal: back surgery is performed to relieve the pain of a herniated disk, and drugs are given to lift depression or end an asthma attack more quickly. Those treatments are meant to improve -- not necessarily to save -- lives. Can their value actually be compared?
 Yes, say health care economists, who have created the ''quality-adjusted life year.'' The idea is that a year in perfect health is worth more -- both to the patient and to society -- than a year spent in pain, depression or a wheelchair.
 So what's worse? Losing one eye or both ears? Constant back pain or severe asthma? Late-stage diabetes or congestive heart failure?
 To get the answer, these economists have developed several tests. The simplest and most elegant is called the standard gamble. People are asked to imagine having the symptoms of a certain disease -- the pain, loss of function and shortened life expectancy. (Economists try to avoid using the specific name of the disease when they are describing it because some diseases, especially cancer, provoke disproportionately negative responses.)
 Then the people are told that an operation exists that would cure them. But if the operation fails, the patient will die.
 Under those circumstances, what odds of failure will the sick person tolerate? The higher the odds, the worse the disease. For example, a survey of people with severe diabetes, including blindness, found that they would accept the operation even if there were only a 42 percent chance they would survive, according to a registry compiled by Dr. Neumann's program at Tufts. 
 In other words, these patients would, on average, accept a better than 50-50 chance of immediate death to be rid of their condition. Patients who had suffered a severe stroke carried an even more negative view of their condition. 
 On the other hand, people with severe sleep apnea -- which causes them to wake up repeatedly during the night and requires them to wear a breathing mask in bed -- were much more willing to live with the disease than stroke or diabetes patients were. The apnea patients would accept an operation only if their chances of dying were no higher than about 10 percent. 
 Economists put these conditions on a simple scale, with a year in perfect health scored at 1. Death is scored at 0, but 0 is not the lowest point on the scale. A person who is in intractable pain, bedridden, depressed and unable to care for himself could have a score below 0, because many people would rather be dead than living with those problems. 
 Economists acknowledge that these figures are rough estimates.
 ''There's a number of different ways of eliciting this information, and depending on how it's done and who you ask, you get different numbers,'' said Emmett B. Keeler, a math professor and specialist in health care economics at RAND.
 Many sick people, for example, adapt surprisingly well to their conditions, Dr. Keeler said. As a result, those who are actually sick tend to be more tolerant of their diseases -- and less willing to gamble their lives on a cure -- than healthy people who are asked to imagine having a disease.
 ''People are terrible at doing this,'' said Richard M. Suzman, director of the behavioral and social research program at the National Institute on Aging. ''There are data that show that people overestimate the impact of spinal cord injuries compared to people who've actually had them.'' 
 Despite these caveats, economists insist that the estimates have value, at least as guides to the diseases and conditions that people will spend the most to avoid.
 ''I think of it as 'What's the weather like?' '' said David Cutler, a professor of economics at Harvard and author of ''Your Money or Your Life: Strong Medicine for America's Health-Care System.'' ''There's no firm answer, but pretty much everyone would agree that some days are nicer than other days.'' 
 Once they know how to rank the ''costs'' of various diseases, economists can determine the worthiness of a particular treatment. To do so, they use the ''quality-adjusted life-year,'' or QALY. 
 The idea of QALY is to put a value on treatments that may not save lives but improve them. For example, if a blind person's quality of life is ''worth'' 0.75 points per year, a treatment that would restore him to perfect vision -- and raise his quality of life to 1 per year -- is worth 0.25 per year of life. If the person lived another 30 years, the treatment would be worth 7.5 QALYs, or 30 times 0.25.
 With QALYs, that treatment would produce the equivalent of keeping 10 patients on dialysis -- whose lives are also ''worth'' 0.75 points per year -- alive for a year. 
 In theory, QALYs offer a single figure that can measure value of every treatment, from drugs to surgeries to preventive care, like vaccines and cancer screenings. 
 Once they know how many QALYs a treatment is worth, economists can figure out its cost per QALY -- the broadest measure of the cost-effectiveness of health care. 
 For example, what does screening for colon cancer really cost? First, divide the cost per screening by the probability that a screening will find cancer to determine the cost of a cancer diagnosis. Then divide that figure by the number of QALYs lost in an average case of colon cancer.
 And as any gastroenterologist will you, because screening is relatively cheap and colon cancer is expensive and difficult to treat, colon cancer screening turns out to be something of a bargain, at $10,000 to $25,000 per quality-adjusted life year -- at most, one-third the cost of dialysis. Put another way, if the United States had to choose between dialysis and colon cancer screening, most economists would suggest it pick screening.
 But the United States has never accepted that health care should be rationed, or that new treatments should not be covered simply because they are expensive. That attitude has led to coverage for technologies like the left-ventricular assist device, a wildly expensive way to help failing hearts pump blood more usefully.
 Costing as much as $1.4 million per QALY, the device is an enormous use of resources. Some new cancer medicines are also inefficient, extending the lives of very sick patients by a few weeks at a cost of tens of thousands of dollars per case, or several hundred thousand dollars per QALY.
 Meanwhile, some people without insurance do not have access to cholesterol-lowering drugs, which cost just a few thousand dollars per QALY when they are prescribed to patients who have a high risk of heart attack.
 Such inefficiencies contribute to the high cost of American health care, economists say. They argue that the United States will have little alternative but to follow the lead of other countries, notably Britain, and begin to examine cost-per-QALY explicitly when it considers the coverage of new treatments.
 ''When we go and buy health care, we have no idea how much health we're going to get for a dollar,'' said Dr. Goldman of RAND. ''And if we had this just right, we'd know how much health we're going to get. You're not really interested in buying health care -- you're interested in buying health. That's what this is trying to do.''
 Still, Dr. Goldman said that using QALYs would work only if policy makers use them as guides and do not make decisions on the basis of efficiency. In some cases, like new cancer treatments, Americans simply do not want to consider cost, he said.
 ''They're incredibly expensive and don't work so well,'' Dr. Goldman said of the cancer drugs. ''But Americans have said they want these things. We like to do things for patients that are very vulnerable.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: SCREENING -- A technician from the University of Connecticut Health Center gives a mammogram to a patient. Economists are trying to determine whether the costs of tests are worth it. (Photo by C. M. Glover for The New York Times) Chart: ''What Is Good Health Worth?'' Attaching a dollar sign to a year of healthy life may seem difficult, but economists are doing it to help determine which medical services offer the most value for the money. By looking at the cost of a treatment, its chance for success and the quality of life it can bring, economists generate a measure of cost-effectiveness, known as ''cost per quality-adjusted life year.'' Considered Cost-Effective CHOICE OF TREATMENT -- Flu vaccinations for newborns vs. none COST PER QUALITYADJUSTED LIFE YEAR* -- Less than $0
 costs less to vaccinate than to treat later in life CHOICE OF TREATMENT -- Yearly mammogram vs. one every two years COST PER QUALITYADJUSTED LIFE YEAR* -- $10,000 to 25,000 CHOICE OF TREATMENT -- High blood pressure medication vs. none COST PER QUALITYADJUSTED LIFE YEAR* -- $10,000 to 60,000 Considered Less Cost-Effective CHOICE OF TREATMENT -- Annual screening for depression vs. none COST PER QUALITYADJUSTED LIFE YEAR* -- $100,000 to 500,000 CHOICE OF TREATMENT -- M.R.I. for high-risk children with headaches vs. no treatment COST PER QUALITYADJUSTED LIFE YEAR* -- $100,000 to 500,000 CHOICE OF TREATMENT -- Heart pump for patients with endstage heart failure vs. no device COST PER QUALITYADJUSTED LIFE YEAR* -- $500,000 to 1.4 million EXAMPLE: 1,000 patients are given hypertension medication at a total cost of $1 million. The treatment is expected to prevent one fatal and one nonfatal heart attack. This saves 30 years of full health - 25 from the prevented fatal attack and 5 from the nonfatal. The total cost is divided by 30 years, resulting in roughly $33,000 for each quality-adjusted life year. *The net costs to society for each year of healthy life gained. (Source by Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Tufts University and New England Medical Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); DIALYSIS (89%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); KIDNEY DISEASE (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (70%); DIALYSIS CENTERS (66%); ASTHMA (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007



219 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; The Business of Health; RISKS AND REWARDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: Who Pays for Efficiency?

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
SAVING money can be expensive.
 Indeed, the quest to save dollars in the nation's $2.1 trillion annual health care bill is becoming a lucrative market of its own. Thousands of companies, large and small, are pitching cost-saving ideas that range from electronic patient records to new medical devices.
It's not all marketing hype. Experts in health policy agree that there is a real opportunity to curb health spending, which last year was the equivalent of $7,000 for every man, woman and child in the country. Studies predict a gain of as much as 30 percent in efficiency, mostly through reducing unnecessary tests and prescriptions, paperwork and medical mistakes. 
 Such streamlining would not cut the nation's total medical spending, as long as there is a growing aging population with ever-increasing health needs. But certain measures are expected to help keep costs from spiraling. 
 Every cost-saving product or service requires an upfront investment, which bets that it will produce overall savings. And so the paradox kicks in. ''There is money to be saved, but it is not going to be cheap,'' said David M. Cutler, a health economist at Harvard University. 
 The path to saving can be particularly uncertain in the United States' fragmented health care economy -- a mix of risk, regulation and profit in which the incentives are often contradictory. A physician, for example, may try new approaches to trim the costs of providing care, but the results usually benefit insurers more than doctors. Strides in efficiency may be good for society, though there may be scant financial motivation for the doctors themselves. 
 The experience of Dr. Richard Baron, who practices with three other physicians in an office in Philadelphia, provides a glimpse into the predicament. In 2004, Dr. Baron and his colleagues made the transition from ink and paper to computers and electronic health records. They were doing what health care reformers had been advocating for years. But the arithmetic of investing in health-information technology is daunting, especially for small practices like Dr. Baron's. His office spent $140,000 on personal computers, including tablet PCs, servers, software and installation. 
 The office's annual technology costs, he said, were about $50,000, including maintenance and technical support, and he plans to upgrade the three-year-old computers at a cost of $54,000. Those costs do not include the lost productivity in the first year, when the staff was learning to use the new technology. 
 Dr. Baron's office has saved money -- in transcribing medical reports, for example -- and his practice now handles its 6,000 patients with three fewer office employees. He described other benefits, mainly the ability to find information quickly for patients, hospitals, insurers and labs with a few keystrokes. 
 The technology, Dr. Baron said, has also helped make him become a more adept physician. But it has not yet paid off in dollars and cents: the savings in salaries is less than the costs entailed in computerization. ''It is a high-risk venture,'' he said, ''and you do it at your own financial peril.'' 
 Today, an estimated one-fourth of primary-care doctors use electronic health records, but only 5 percent of them are in offices with five doctors or fewer -- where about half of all doctors practice. 
 Dr. Anne Wilson has her own internal-medicine practice in Rockville, Md., and has felt the pinch of reimbursement cutbacks from Medicare and other insurers. Buying computers and software for electronic health records, Dr. Wilson said, would mean a big cost with no clear payoff. 
 ''I can't capture the economics of scale as a sole practitioner,'' she said. ''Electronic health records may well be a good thing, as a collective good, but why should I make the investment if I don't get any of the gains?''
 Physicians get only about 11 percent of the savings from electronic health records; the real benefit goes mainly to private and public insurers because, for one, they are paying for fewer unnecessary tests, and automated record-handling is a big cost saving for the payers, according to a study by the Center for Technology Leadership, a medical research group. ''The doctors bear all the costs, and others reap most of the benefit,'' said Dr. David J. Brailer, who was the national health information technology coordinator in the Bush administration from 2004 to 2006. ''The incentives are totally awry.''
 In recent years, another well-promoted effort to try to cut costs while improving care has been the use of specialty cardiac hospitals. Specialty hospitals, in theory, should be able to achieve quality and efficiency by focusing on a single part of the body. Yet a study published in The Journal of the American Medical Association in March found that in regions where cardiac hospitals had opened, the overall rates of angioplasty and open-heart surgery more than doubled after four years, compared with regions without specialty hospitals. 
 This is another example of the paradox, with the lure of saving money undermined by marketplace realities. In the nation's fee-for-service system of medical payments, the more procedures that are done, the more money a specialist or a hospital receives. 
 New technology also tends to increase the number of procedures. Cardiac treatment has been revolutionized by angioplasty and stents, meshlike tubes often put in heart arteries to keep them open after blockages have been cleared. Stenting, which became common in the late 1990s, costs less, is not as invasive as open-heart surgery and involves shorter recovery times. So the number of open-heart, coronary-bypass surgeries each year has dropped by more than 100,000 since the mid-1990s, but more than a million stent procedures are now performed each year. 
 ''The trigger for intervention is lower and the pool of treatable patients is larger,'' said Dr. John D. Birkmeyer, director of surgical outcomes research at the University of Michigan and a co-author of the journal article. ''These are institutions with an incentive to increase the supply of surgically treatable disease. It's a matter of if you build it, they will come.''
 Questions in the last year about the long-term safety and effectiveness of stents are causing some patients to think twice about them. Nevertheless, the stent-first approach to heart disease in the last decade has meant that the patients who later require bypass surgery are often older and less healthy than the typical open-heart patient years ago. One consequence is that the rate of postsurgery kidney failure has increased sharply, a costly and life-threatening complication.
 Once again, entrepreneurs are ready. The answer to the kidney problem, say engineers at Design Medical, a start-up company in Pelham, N.H., is a new pump for the heart-lung machines used during surgery. With the better blood flow resulting from the new pump, aging kidneys and other organs will come through open-heart surgery in better shape, potentially saving up to $2 billion in hospitalization and treatment costs, said Doug Vincent, president of Design Medical.
 The catch is that the new pump will cost $2,000, about 10 times more than conventional pumps. ''Yes, it would be more expensive,'' Mr. Vincent said. ''But if we're right it would save a lot of money.'' 
 The best way to improve health care and contain costs is to take a new approach, said Dr. Dean Ornish, a clinical professor of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, and a leading proponent of preventive medicine. Medicine is currently practiced, he said, as part of a ''disease care system'' geared to reactingto the consequences of bad health instead of treating the underlying causes. More than 90 percent of heart disease, Dr. Ornish insists, is preventable. 
 Over the years, Dr. Ornish has led several projects showing that fundamental changes in diet, exercise and stress management can stop and even reverse heart disease.
 Preventive programs cost money upfront, but can cut overall treatment costs to insurers by 30 percent or more, yet few insurers pay for preventive care. 
 A third of people with health coverage switch insurers every year, so insurers reason that their investment in preventive health measures could become another company's gain. 
 That attitude may be changing, though. Last year, Medicare agreed to cover a dietary program designed by Dr. Ornish.
 ''Given the failures of high-tech medicine, these low-tech approaches are starting to get the attention they deserve,'' Dr. Ornish said. 
 But high-tech remains in favor, despite recent studies raising doubts about the value to many patients of widely used medical devices like heart defibrillators. The lucrative medical-device market in the United States is a favorite of venture capitalists these days.
 ''The medical technology race is a promise that we will continue to try to do everything we can,'' said David Cassak, an editor at In Vivo, which covers the medical-device industry. 
 That may be a noble goal. But it is hardly a prescription for controlling costs. Health care reformers say that treatments are justified when there is evidence of sound science and financial logic. That threshold, it seems, is not the standard today. Studies done by researchers at Dartmouth College show large differences in treatment, and costs, for elderly patients in their last few years of life in different parts of the country. And, they found, more aggressive and expensive treatment does not prolong life -- and may even shorten it.
 ''You need to move toward well-defined clinical guidelines based on medical evidence and better information throughout the health care system,'' said Jonathan S. Skinner, an economist at Dartmouth. ''But that's not going to be easy, and it's going to be fraught with difficult choices.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: GOING ELECTRONIC -- Dr. Richard Baron of Philadelphia says computerizing his office has helped streamline the flow, but has not paid off in actual dollars and cents. (Photo by Sabina Louise Pierce for The New York Times)(pg. H1)
 LEANER -- Dr. Richard Baron with Pat Logan, a medical assistant. With computers, the four-doctor practice needed three fewer office workers. (Photo by Sabina Louise Pierce for The New York Times)(pg. H8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE (77%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); MEDICAL DEVICES (72%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (72%); AGING TRENDS (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (67%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); TABLET COMPUTERS (62%); AGING (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007



220 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: New Passport Rules Bring Worry Over Tourism at Niagara Falls

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y., June 10 

 BODY:
Standing at Prospect Point in Niagara Falls State Park, Paul Cranley looked through the mist formed by millions of gallons of water dropping more than 160 feet to the gorge below.
 ''It's pretty awesome,'' said Mr. Cranley, a retired chemist from Lake Jackson, Tex., who had brought his wife and son more than 1,500 miles to see Niagara Falls for the second time, 21 years after their first visit. ''It's incredible to get up close to all that water. One would hope that people on both sides could see all of it.''
But as the vacation season begins in earnest, many people in the tourism industry and other businesses dependent on travel fear the repercussions of changes looming for crossing the border between the United States and Canada. They say the new rules could discourage millions of visitors from coming to one of the nation's most majestic and romantic tourist attractions and result in billions of dollars a year in lost revenue. 
 Starting in January, the plan approved in 2004 -- known as the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative and suggested by the 9/11 Commission -- will for the first time require Americans traveling by land or sea to Canada, Mexico, Bermuda and the Caribbean to present a passport, a less expensive alternative called a passport card or one of several frequent-traveler cards already available. A passport requirement for those flying between the United States and those places went into effect in January but was temporarily lifted last week. 
 Earlier this year Congress recommended that the deadline for beginning the land and sea portion of the plan be extended until June 2009, but the Department of Homeland Security has repeatedly said it intends to stick with the original deadline of January 2008. And despite the government's refusal to delay the plan, officials at the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security said in congressional hearings last month that the government had not tested the proposed cards or the machines to process them.
 ''It is a security vulnerability as identified by Congress and the 9/11 Commission,'' said Kelly Klundt, a Homeland Security spokeswoman. 
 Since January, people flying between the United States and those destinations have been required to present passports. But on Friday the State Department said that because it has been unable to keep up with the surge in new passport applications, it would allow travelers to fly without a passport until the end of September if they could present a State Department receipt showing they had applied for one, as well as a piece of government-issued identification, like a driver's license.
 After the announcement, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said the department would begin to phase in the land and sea strictures beginning in January.
 So as the government tightens security between the United States and Canada, the world's longest nonmilitarized border -- 5,526 miles over land and water -- businesses in both countries are growing increasingly wary. A survey conducted by Ontario's Niagara Parks Commission in 2005 showed that 36 percent of Americans and 37 percent of Canadians said they would ''severely curtail'' the number of times they crossed the border if a passport were required.
 Arlene White, executive director of the Binational Tourism Alliance, which has offices in Niagara Falls, Ontario, and Buffalo, said the Niagara Falls region would be hit particularly hard. 
 The bill's impact would be felt beyond tourism in industries including trucking and manufacturing, Ms. White said. New York's trade with all of Canada totaled almost $38 billion in 2006, while Ontario did more than $285 billion of business with the United States, according to statistics provided by the Canadian government.
 ''If they make everyone have a passport, you'll see people just start to stay away from the border,'' Ms. White said. ''The thought of this actually being allowed to happen is unfathomable to me.''
 About 20 million people travel to Niagara Falls each year, with each side of the border offering a vastly different experience.
 In New York, visitors can walk within yards of the brink of the falls in at least six different places. Ontario's park touches the edge of the cataracts in only one spot, but offers a panoramic and breathtaking view.
 The differences are even more pronounced beyond the parks themselves.
 Niagara Falls, Ontario, offers more flash, with the neon signs for wax museums, restaurants and souvenir shops lighting up Clifton Hill and Lundy's Lane, the area's main drags, and four new high-rise hotels and two observation towers lining the gorge.
 The tourism industry is less developed on the New York side, with smaller, mostly older hotels and scattered attractions operating in the shadow of the 26-story Seneca Niagara Casino Hotel, which is four blocks from the state park.
 Together, public and private investment in infrastructure and attractions on both sides of the border since 2004 has run into the billions, Ms. White said.
 The American and Canadian sides each have wine trails, casinos and historic landmarks dating to the colonial period. And Buffalo's professional football and hockey teams, the Bills and the Sabres, rely on a healthy influx of customers from Ontario, as do ski resorts and shopping centers.
 ''We fill each other's gaps,'' Ms. White said. ''We have tourism 12 months of the year -- who else has that? You cross the border into Buffalo and you just sort of shed your Canadian skin. You feel like, 'I'm in another country, I'm on vacation, I can just relax.' ''
 Yet fewer people are experiencing that feeling, perhaps because of the common misconception that a passport is already required to cross the border by car or boat, Ms. White said. A study taken by the Canadian government in January showed that bridge traffic into Canada was the lightest since 1972.
 That trend concerns two members of the local congressional delegation who seldom find themselves on the same side of an issue.
 ''Tourism and trade with Canada is one of the only sections of our economy that is growing,'' said Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, a former chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. ''Even if the reduction is only 5 percent, that's going to be devastating for western New York.''
 Representative Louise Slaughter, a Democrat who is chairwoman of the House Rules Committee, said: ''The idea of implementing this as soon as this January is a pipe dream. Canada is our biggest trading partner -- it's our life's blood. A large part of the economies of northern states depends on easy access and trade with Canada.''
 Adding to the growing sense of frustration, at Senate hearings in early May, Homeland Security officials questioned by Senator Charles Schumer said the passport cards and the machines to read them had not been tested in the field.
 Miss Klundt, the department spokeswoman, said that a cost analysis was under way and that the National Institute of Standards and Technology had certified the technology for the proposed passport card, which would enable customs inspectors to see a picture of each traveler and verify citizenship at inspection areas at the border. 
 ''What works quickest?'' Miss Klundt asked. ''Going through wrinkled birth certificates and trying to establish that you are that person, or swiping through a card?''
 So far the Canadian government, which has frowned on the requirements, has no plans for a lower-cost passport alternative. Rather, the premiers of Ontario, Manitoba and New Brunswick visited Washingtonin February, asking the federal government to delay the plan and consider a program with an enhanced driver's license with citizenship verification instead.
 Ms. Slaughter and Mr. Reynolds have also suggested that option, citing a pilot program in Washington State that was approved in March by Homeland Security. That test does not begin until Jan. 1 -- the earliest the passport requirement could start.
 ''Why in the world would they set forth on a pilot project and not wait to see the results before putting something else into effect?'' Ms. Slaughter asked.
 She said she planned to introduce a measure next week withholding $100 million of the $202 million budgeted to enact the travel requirements in 2008 and 2009 until the departments complete economic and technological feasibility studies, which would push the deadline back at least a year.
 ''They've got to accept that they've got an awful mess that they can't handle,'' Ms. Slaughter said. 
 Further complicating the issue, a plan for the two countries to share management of the border stalled this spring after Canadian officials balked at the Department of Homeland Security's desire to fingerprint anyone who turned around at the border rather than provide documentation of citizenship.
 ''Canada will not consider any proposal that would diminish the basic individual rights of Canadians,'' that country's public safety minister, Stockwell Day, said after talks broke down. 
 Representative Reynolds said of the border negotiations with some exasperation, ''These guys have done more to strain our relationship with Canada than anything since the French and Indian War.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 13, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A map on Monday with an article about fears that tourism in the Niagara Falls area will suffer when tighter border restrictions take effect mislabeled an island in the Niagara River between New York and Ontario. It is Goat Island, not Duck Island.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The U.S. customs area at Rainbow Bridge at Niagara Falls, N.Y., with Niagara Falls, Ontario, beyond. The falls draw millions of visitors a year. (Photo by Doug Benz for The New York Times)(pg. B5) Maps of New York highlighting Niagara Falls: The two sides of Niagara Falls offer visitors different experiences. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURISM (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); STATE PARKS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (92%); BERMUDA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007



221 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 2; The Business of Health; TREATMENTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Need a Knee Replaced? Check Your ZIP Code.

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

 BODY:
WHY does health care for the average Medicare patient cost nearly twice as much a year in New Jersey, at $8,076, as it does in Hawaii, at $4,529? 
 The differences are one example of perplexing geographic variations in medical expenses and quality. And in a study that has important implications for the nation's $2 trillion health care tab, researchers have found that more intensive and expensive care does not necessarily mean better outcomes. In fact, the opposite may be true.
The Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care, a research group that studies variations and costs in medical care, sums it up like this: Geography is destiny. It means that your chances of undergoing certain surgical procedures, visiting the doctor often or even dying in a hospital or at home are related to where you live. 
 For example, Medicare patients living in Rhode Island undergo knee replacements at a rate of 5 in 1,000 people. In Nebraska, the number rises to 10 in 1,000. Female Medicare enrollees who receive a diagnosis of breast cancer have nearly seven times the chance of having a mastectomy in South Dakota, where the rate is 2 in 1,000, as they do in Vermont, where the rate is .3 in 1,000. 
 In another comparison, the Dartmouth group, a project of the college's medical school, analyzed the costs and type of care patients receive in their last six months of life. Those in Oregon spend an average of eight days in the hospital while those in New York spend 35 days. In Oregon, the patient is seen by an average of 14 doctors during that period. In New York, 35 doctors see the patient. 
 In the last two years of life, the average Oregon patient costs $25,500, and the New York patient, $38,300.
 Such differences cannot be explained by rates of illness or cost-of-living deviations. In some cases, drastic variations in Medicare treatment and costs occur even within states. There are almost twice as many hip replacements in Palo Alto as there are in San Francisco, for example. Such variations happen among the country's top academic medical centers. 
 Some differences involve choices. Does a patient prefer to live with the pain and inconvenience of a bad knee, or undergo a knee replacement? It depends on personal preference and the advice that doctors give about risks versus rewards. Does a woman with breast cancer elect mastectomy or lumpectomy?
 But much of the deviation appears to be caused by what experts call ''supply sensitive care,'' meaning the number of doctor visits and hospitalizations expand to the system's capacity. Higher-spending areas have more hospital beds per person and more highly specialized physicians. 
 In communities with surplus hospital beds, research shows, patients do not necessarily get more elective surgery, but they have more hospital stays, more frequent doctor's visits and are more likely to be referred to specialists. 
 Dr. Elliott S. Fisher, who studies health care economics and is a member of the Dartmouth research group, said that part of the problem was the way doctors and hospitals were paid.
 ''In a payment system that rewards everybody for staying busy, every bit of capacity you have, whether it's the number of specialists or the number of intensive care beds or the M.R.I. scanner, has to stay fully occupied because they bought them already and they have to keep paying for them,'' Dr. Fisher said in a telephone interview. 
 He told a Medicare Payment Advisory Commission panel last year: ''If you're lying down and spending time in the hospital and seeing more specialists, you also get more tests and minor procedures because that's what we do when you're in there.'' 
 Paradoxically, the Dartmouth research, which confirms some similar studies, shows that patients in high-cost areas are not necessarily getting better care. Dr. Fisher said that he and his colleagues found higher mortality rates in higher-spending regions. 
 ''When physicians describe the quality of care, they say the quality of care is worse in the higher-spending regions,'' Dr. Fisher told the panel. 
 Among disturbing findings, Dr. Fisher said, are that tremendous gains in heart attack survival rates during the last 20 years have been smallest in high-spending regions. 
 One reason is that the risks of being hospitalized, including infections and medical errors, can outweigh the benefits. But the adage about ''too many cooks'' could also play a role. 
 ''What we hypothesize is happening is that as the complexity of the system increases, it becomes less and less clear who is the responsible physician,'' Dr. Fisher said. 
 Extra care without better outcomes translates into waste in the health care system. Some experts say that waste accounts for as much as if not more than 30 percent of the national spending on health care. Such spending now totals 16 percent of the gross domestic product. 
 Dr. Fisher said that the spending differences from one area to another are mostly related to discretionary decisions in gray areas, like uncertainty about the proper treatment. 
 The Dartmouth group's leader, Dr. John E. Wennberg, began studying such variations in the 1970s while directing a federally financed program in Vermont that analyzed services in state hospitals. He found that rates of common procedures -- tonsillectomies, hysterectomies and prostatectomies -- varied a lot from town to town.
 In Morrisville, for example, Dr. Wennberg found that 63 percent of children under 16 had undergone a tonsillectomy, compared with 7 percent 70 miles away in Middlebury. He found that five doctors in Morrisville were responsible for the deviation. While antibiotics were widely used to treat infections elsewhere, the Morrisville doctors were relying on old methods. 
 The group's Web site, dartmouthatlas.org, contains detailed analysis of procedures paid for by Medicare nationwide, as well as interactive graphs. People can use the site to find rates of spending and procedures at their local hospitals. 
 What is the solution to these problems? One answer involves an increase in primary-care doctors. Research indicates that costs go up and quality declines with increased physician specialization. Dr. Fisher notes that New Jersey, the highest-cost state, has a specialty-oriented approach. He thinks coordination could be the answer.
 ''I really do believe strongly that we need to foster the development of large physician groups or hospital physician organizations that can be accountable for the quality and cost of care,'' he said. ''Most of the serious deficiencies in the U.S. health care system are in lack of coordination and fragmentation.'' 
 Policy makers are seeking ways to increase financial incentives for becoming a family doctor, internist or pediatrician, possibly by raising the payments doctors receive for evaluating and managing patients or creating a new reimbursement category for coordinating care.
 The average family physician nationwide currently makes $126,000 a year, while the average specialist earns $297,000 a year. 
 ''If you can be a dermatologist and have no night calls and make an average of $290,000 a year, then why go into family medicine?'' asked Dr. John G. Scott, an assistant professor of family medicine at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School. 
 Dr. Scott sums up the situation in New Jersey with a personal anecdote. When he moved there from Arkansas and told an acquaintance he was a family doctor, she responded, ''We don't have those in New Jersey.'' 

GRAPHIC: Chart/Maps: ''Regional Differences in Costs and Care'' Geographic variation in quality and cost of health care is a result of many complicating factors. These maps, which use 2003 Medicare patient data, show the variability of cost in the Medicare system and the rate of knee replacement surgery, a common procedure. Among the factors affecting rate variation by region are the health of the population, the economy, the availability of and access to care and the methods for care and treatment. Maps of the United States show: Total Medicare reimbursements per enrollee, 2003 by hospital referral region Knee replacement surgery per 1,000 Medicare enrollees, 2003 by hospital referral region (Erin Aigner/The New York Times) (Source by The Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); BREAST CANCER (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (88%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); COST OF LIVING (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007



222 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Flight Snags Are Arriving On Schedule

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The nation's air-travel system fell apart again last Friday night, when the space shuttle Atlantis was just about the only flight that was on time on the East Coast.
 It is a bit of an exaggeration, but consider the actual numbers of flight delays that began choking the system on the East Coast Friday morning after an air traffic control computer failed in Atlanta. By early afternoon, delays began piling up, especially in the New York area, where flights were arriving two to three hours late by early evening at Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark, and at Boston and Philadelphia.
As always happens when one major air center becomes snarled, delays cascade through the system. Here are the national on-time arrival rates for Friday for the seven top airlines at the top 10 airports, according to flightstats.com: US Airways, 36 percent; Delta, 57 percent; American, 59 percent; Northwest, 62 percent; Southwest, 65 percent; United, 67 percent; and Continental, 69 percent. 
 Joe Brancatelli, the publisher of the subscription business travel Web site joesentme.com, said, ''June 8 goes down as the worst travel day of the summer so far, and the summer hasn't even started yet.'' 
 In the first four months of this year, nearly 25 percent of domestic flights arrived late, the worst record in 13 years, according to the Transportation Department. This year is shaping up to be the worst ever for delays, and there will be lots of blame to go around, and lots of finger-pointing. Among the villains and accused will be:
 Severe weather, the dependable Snidley Whiplash of delays. 
 Reduction of capacity as airlines divert bigger planes onto more profitable international routes and toss more small regional jets into the skies, thus increasing overall air traffic in an attempt to put a paying passenger in every seat available. 
 The Federal Aviation Administration, which will increasingly take it on the chin as evidence mounts that its outdated technology is unable to handle growing air traffic demand.
 The rapidly expanding private-jet industry, including its brash little sister the very-light-jet industry, just now taking to the skies. A battle royal is shaping up between commercial airlines and the business-jet industry, especially over using, and paying for, the air traffic control system.
 ''We have more planes with reduced capacity in the system, and of course that's adding to congestion,'' said James C. May, the president of the Air Transport Association, the commercial airlines' trade group. 
 But Mr. May and others think the F.A.A. needs to move quickly to improve the air traffic control system. ''The consequences of Congress not acting aggressively to make difficult choices on a next-generation air traffic control system are going to be even more extraordinary delays,'' he said.
 There is growing tension between the airlines and the surging private-jet industry. There are more than 8,000 private jets in the domestic skies, about as many planes as the commercial airlines have. The nascent very-light-jet industry is expected to add thousands more.
 The business-jet industry says that it imposes far less strain on the air traffic control system because most business jets can fly into more than 5,000 smaller airports, rather than the 460 or so used by commercial airlines in airspace most heavily supervised by air traffic control. 
 Mr. May concedes that, but adds that most of the private-jet traffic is flying not into some dusty little airport in the sticks, but rather into expanding general aviation airports in congested urban areas where the highest concentration of commercial airliners are. 
 ''I accept the fact that they're going to smaller airports, and that's wonderful,'' Mr. May said. ''But they're using the same air traffic control system. They get really angry at me when I say a blip is a blip is a blip.'' Air traffic controllers have to pay the same attention to a business jet carrying 8 people as a 737 carrying 180, he said.
 The private aviation industry is well aware of this, and supports the calls for vastly improved air traffic technology. One unpopular solution would be to schedule departures and arrivals of private jets more formally; now, their owners are accustomed to setting their own schedules. Meanwhile, commercial and private operators are squabbling about user fees for the air traffic control system.
 ''I think people are simply going to have to adjust as more airplanes come in and the system becomes more congested,'' said Robert E. Brown, the chief executive of CAE, a worldwide company that provides flight training and aircraft-trainer simulators, mostly for general aviation and the military.
 Last week, CAE opened a $100 million center for training new business-jet pilots near the Morristown Airport in northern New Jersey, an expanding general aviation airport an hour's drive from New York. 
 The center includes six highly sophisticated simulators for training pilots to fly several Falcon business-jet models as well as Gulfstream IV's and Sikorsky S-76 helicopters. It is within 400 miles of more than 40 percent of the business-jet activity in the United States, CAE said.
 The general aviation industry says that private jets and other noncommercial flights make up less than 5 percent of operations at the nation's top 20 commercial airports. True, the airlines agree. But private jets and other general aviation flights mainly use smaller but rapidly growing airports nearby -- within major metropolitan areas -- among them Van Nuys in Los Angeles; Teterboro and Morristown in the New York airspace of northern New Jersey; and DeKalb Peachtree in the airspace of the nation's busiest commercial airport, Atlanta Hartsfield.
 Barring a catastrophe, industry officials agree, air traffic will continue to grow, both commercial and private. 
 Amidst all this, some involved in aviation are saying not to blame those little 50-to-70-seat regional jets that airlines have been increasingly using. While those jets add to the number of planes in the sky without increasing capacity, they also make it possible for air service to continue in small and midsize communities where it does not make economic sense for big airliners to do business, said Michael J. Boyd, an aviation forecaster who is a fierce critic of what he calls ''chronic mismanagement'' and ''foot-dragging'' at the F.A.A.
 ''Bottom line: it's the F.A.A.'s responsibility to have a system that can handle demand, and the F.A.A. is failing miserably to deliver,'' Mr. Boyd said.
 Marion C. Blakey, the F.A.A. administrator, said in a recent speech addressing delays, ''We're trying to take steps to avoid the repeat of last year.'' Ms. Blakey said the F.A.A. had been expanding ''airflow space programs'' that give airlines the option of flying longer routes to avoid severe weather or, as she put it, ''Unwanted visits by Mother Nature.'' 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (76%); SPACE SHUTTLE (73%); WEATHER (65%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (56%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (51%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



223 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: The Next Culture War

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The conventional view is that an angry band of conservative activists driven by nativism and economic insecurity is killing immigration reform. But this view is wrong in almost every respect. 
 In the first place, immigration is not now, nor has it ever been a primarily partisan issue. A Pew Research Center poll released last week found that 36 percent of Republicans support the bill, along with 33 percent of Democrats and 31 percent of independents. That's hardly a party-line chasm.
 In the second place, immigration attitudes have never dovetailed neatly with racist or nativist ones. Hostility to immigration often increases in periods when racist attitudes are on the decline. Moreover, established immigrants are nearly as suspicious of new and illegal immigrants as native-born Americans. 
 And in the third place, decades of research have failed to show any clean link between economic insecurity and anti-immigrant views. Pollsters ask voters if they feel their own wages are affected by immigrant labor. There is no strong connection between feelings of personal risk and anti-immigration opinions. Some studies find no link at all between income levels and those views.
 What's shaping the immigration debate is something altogether deeper and more interesting. And if you want to understand what it is, start with education. Between 1960 and 1980, the share of Americans enrolled in higher education exploded. The U.S. became the first nation in history with a mass educated class. The members of this class differed from each other in a thousand ways, but they tended to share a cosmopolitan approach to the world. They celebrated cultural diversity and saw ethnocentrism as a sign of backwardness.
 Their worldview, which they don't even understand as a distinct worldview, was well summarized by Richard Rorty, who died this week. The goal of any society, he wrote, was to create ''a greater diversity of individuals -- larger, fuller, more imaginative and daring individuals.'' Social life should widen. New cultures should be explored. And, as Rorty concluded, ''Individual life will become unthinkably diverse and social life unthinkably free.''
 Liberal members of the educated class celebrated the cultural individualism of the 1960s. Conservative members celebrated the economic individualism of the 1980s. But they all celebrated individualism. They all valued diversity and embraced a sense of national identity that rested on openness and global integration. 
 This cultural offensive created a silent backlash among people who were not so enamored of rampant individualism, and who were worried that all this diversity would destroy the ancient ties of community and social solidarity. Members of this class came to feel that America's identity and culture were under threat from people who didn't understand what made America united and distinct. 
 The two groups clashed whenever a political issue arose that touched on America's identity or role in the world: immigration, free trade, making English the official language or intervening for humanitarian reasons in Kosovo or Darfur.
 These conflicts were and are primarily cultural clashes, not economic or ideological ones. And if you want to predict which side a person is likely to be on, look at his or her educational level. That'll be your best clue. 
 As the sociologist Manuel Castells generalized, ''Elites are cosmopolitan, people are local.'' People with university values favor intermingling. People with neighborhood values favor assimilation. 
 What's made the clashes so poisonous is that many members of the educated class don't even recognize that they are facing a rival philosophy. Many of them assume that anybody who disagrees with them on immigration and such must be driven by racism, insecurity or some primitive atavism. This smug attitude sends members of the communal, nationalistic side into fits of alienation and prickly defensiveness. It's what makes many of them, in turn, so unpleasant.
 The bottom line is that the immigration debate is part of a newer culture war that has succeeded the familiar and fading culture war. This longer culture war is not within the educated class. It's not the '60s versus the '80s. It's -- to mimic Mark Lilla -- between the people who have absorbed both the '60s and the '80s, and everyone else. 
 It's between open, individualistic cosmopolitans and rooted nationalists. It's between those who ride the tides of the cultural mainstream and those so driven by marginalization that they're destroying the best compromise they will get.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



224 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Effort to Advise On Risky Loans Runs Into Snag

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 7 

 BODY:
With a growing number of homeowners running into problems paying their mortgages, Illinois came up with an idea to protect people like Cassandra McKinney from lenders -- and themselves. 
 A single mother and a homeowner on the city's south side, Ms. McKinney briefly entertained the idea of taking $50,000 of equity out of her home to pay off debts, at an initial interest rate of 9.5 percent, sharply higher than her existing mortgage. But after attending a new mandatory state program to counsel borrowers on their mortgages, she realized the loan was too expensive and unnecessary.
''The counseling helped me understand that this was on the excessive side,'' said Ms. McKinney, a project manager for a telecommunications company. 
 It sounds like a success story. But in January, with the program in place a little more than three months, Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich suspended it after critics complained that the government was wading too deeply into the personal financial lives of its citizens. 
 Mortgage brokers, real estate agents and minority community leaders said that the effort, while well intentioned, put a damper on real estate transactions in the largely black and Hispanic neighborhoods in southwestern Chicago where the program operated. This amounted, they further argued, to redlining.
 Now the state is considering expanding the counseling to all of Chicago and its suburbs to avoid charges of racial discrimination. But that too has been challenged by industry officials as unnecessary meddling that will severely slow real estate transactions.
 Illinois' approach raises questions about how far lawmakers and regulators can go in trying to safeguard consumers from risky and expensive home loans before they are seen as overly intrusive. 
 So far, discussions in Washington and elsewhere have focused mostly on what should be done to help homeowners in foreclosure and how to rein in aggressive mortgage lenders. Illinois has been largely alone in focusing on trying to make sure borrowers fully understand the debts they are taking on.
 Housing counselors, who supported the initial phase of the program, say it saved people like Ms. McKinney from taking on large debts on onerous terms. But they added that many financially pressured borrowers went ahead with loans even after excessive fees and interest rates had been clearly explained to them.
 Critics, however, asserted that the counseling was yet another hurdle borrowers had to surmount. Brokers also said that the program was at best a half-measure because it did not cover loans made by federally chartered banks that the state could not regulate.
 The plan's first iteration applied only to borrowers in 10 ZIP codes that had experienced the most significant increases in foreclosures. Borrowers with low credit scores or people who were taking out certain exotic mortgages were required to talk with a federally certified housing group. About 1,200 loans were vetted before the program was suspended. 
 Now, the state is retooling the program to include all of Cook County, which encompasses Chicago and many of its suburbs. Under the proposal, first-time home buyers and borrowers who are refinancing would be referred to counseling only if they selected certain loans like adjustable-rate mortgages that reset in five years or less, or loans that initially require only interest payments. A state agency is drafting the rules, which must be approved by a committee of lawmakers.
 Even as that process plays out, the Illinois General Assembly is considering legislation that would enshrine the new counseling rules in law. In addition, the bill would require mortgage brokers to act in their clients' best interest and bar state-regulated lenders from making loans without verifying borrowers' income with tax returns, paycheck stubs or other documents.
 The counseling sessions provide a rare and revealing window into lending to people with weak, or subprime, credit. Borrowers in this world are often in a financial bind, and loan brokers and officers who deal in these mortgages typically earn hefty commissions and know much more about the loans than their clients.
 A report compiled by an advocacy group, Housing Action Illinois, shows that the majority of borrowers who were about take on adjustable-rate mortgages believed that they had fixed-rate loans. More than two-thirds of the borrowers were spending more than 60 percent of their take-home pay on housing expenses. And 75 percent of the borrowers were refinancing existing debts; the rest were buying a home.
 ''We really feel like that the counseling was a great benefit to everyone who got it,'' said Bob Palmer, policy director for Housing Action. But real estate officials ''really got all the momentum in terms of controlling the public debate and very effectively and misleadingly made it an issue about race and ethnicity.''
 While the counseling sessions persuaded some like Ms. McKinney to back out, counselors said that other borrowers went ahead with dubious loans, because they felt trapped by credit card balances, medical bills and other debt.
 ''Some of them realized that even though their monthly mortgage payment was going to increase, they had to do this,'' said Alfred Guyton, executive director for the Institute for Consumer Credit Education.
 It is unclear how many borrowers who were counseled closed on their mortgages, since the state has not provided an analysis of a database it maintains on the loans. The Greater Southwest Development Corporation, one of the counseling agencies, estimates that up to 60 percent of the people it talked to closed on a loan, based on a survey of public filings. But it does not know how many renegotiated the terms of their loans.
 The president of the Illinois Association of Mortgage Brokers, Bill McNamee, said the nonprofit agencies' analysis could not be trusted because they have an incentive to play up problems -- they receive $300 for each counseling session, which is paid for by brokers and lenders. ''They are going to want to justify their existence so they can continue to collect their fees,'' he said.
 Brokers and real estate agents said that home sales fell by more than 45 percent in the neighborhoods where the counseling requirement was introduced, which was much more than the decline in unaffected areas nearby. Brokers assert that a countywide requirement could severely slow the housing market in Chicago.
 John West, a mortgage broker, said the government should emphasize first-time home buyer classes and a more rigorous financial education curriculum in public schools. ''People want government to safeguard them,'' Mr. West said. ''But I don't want to be turning my head and seeing the government saying, 'We think you should make another decision.' ''
 Some borrowers share that view.
 Jasmika Cook, who oversees vocational programs in the city college system, said that she was unimpressed by a counseling session in November when she was considering buying a house in one of the 10 ZIP codes. (She ultimately bought a house in another area.) She said the counselor merely verified that the terms of the loan a broker entered into a state database matched information on her loan application.
 ''I don't see how $300 worth of service was provided,'' she said. 
 Ms. Cook said the state should respond to aggressive lending, noting that a friend's monthly house payments recently jumped 45 percent when the fixed-rate period on her loan ended. She said that the proposed rules were an improvement because they screened for risky loans, not for troubled borrowers in low-income neighborhoods.
 Though many may object to the idea of mandatory counseling, the mortgage industry has found it beneficial in the past.
 Until last year, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which buy mortgages, required lenders to send borrowers who were taking out certain affordable housing loans to counseling. A Freddie Mac study from 2001 showed that homeowners who were counseled under its Affordable Gold program were 19 percent less likely to fall behind on payments for three months or more at any time during the life of the loan than borrowers in comparable circumstances who were not counseled.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were created by Congress, eliminated those requirements because the mortgage companies they bought loans from, the agencies said, were losing customers to lenders that did not require counseling and were generally more lenient.
 ''We made the determination that it would be better to drop the counseling requirement to encourage customers to get into a better product,'' said Thomas A. Lund, executive vice president of Fannie Mae.
 Illinois officials have received more than 300 comments on its proposed rules, and lobbyists for industry groups have stepped up their campaigns to sway lawmakers.
 Dean Martinez, secretary of the state's Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, says that the uproar is missing the point and suggests that the term ''counseling'' may be the problem. He views the sessions as akin to state driving tests. They are there to make sure borrowers fully comprehend what they are doing, not to watch over their every action.
 ''Mario Andretti has to take a driver's license test,'' Mr. Martinez said, ''even though he is one of the best drivers in the world. No one disputes that.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jasmika Cook went through a mandatory mortgage counseling session, but said she was unimpressed with the advice. She and her daughter, Zoe, moved into a home in an area where counseling was not required. (Photo by Sally Ryan for The New York Times)(pg. C12) Chart/Map: ''Mortgage Trouble in Chicago'' In response to a sharp rise in foreclosures in Chicago, the state of Illinois late last year required that homeowners in 10 ZIP codes who met certain criteria be counseled before they could close on mortgages. The area has a high concentration of foreclosures and its population is largely black and Hispanic. Graphs track the following since 1996: City of Chicago foreclosure cases opened each year Median annual household income Percentage minority Map of Illinois highlighting Cook County, foreclosure cases opened in 2006. (Sources by National Training and Information Center
 2000 Census)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (69%); DISCRIMINATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRAINING & INFORMATION CENTER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



225 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Army Missed Its May Recruit Goal

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11 

 BODY:
The Army fell short of its recruiting goal for May, its first significant slip in two years, although it remained on track to meet its goal of 80,000 for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30. 
 The active-duty Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force met or surpassed their May targets, although the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard fell far short.
With special incentives for attracting recruits, the Army has managed to recover from a 2005 recruiting slump. But the war in Iraq, where the Army and the Marine Corps have suffered an overwhelming majority of the armed forces' casualties, and the strong domestic economy have made recruiting difficult.
 The pace of recruiting is particularly important now because Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has set a goal of increasing the active-duty Army by 65,000, to 547,000, within five years. The increase is intended to ease some of the strain on the Army from its heavy commitments in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 Statistics released Monday showed that the Army signed up 5,101 recruits in May, short of its goal of 5,500.
 The statistics also showed that the Marines signed up 2,225 recruits in May, exceeding their goal of 1,665. The Navy hit its target of 2,709 exactly, and the Air Force met its goal of 2,451. The Army National Guard reached only 88 percent of its goal, however, and the Air National Guard 77 percent of its goal.
 The last time the active-duty Army missed a monthly goal was in September 2006, although that was a special circumstance: the Army had already met its full-year goal by September, so it chose to defer some enlistments to later months.
 In 2005 the Army missed its recruiting target by wide margins in four straight months, through May. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (93%); ARMIES (91%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); NAVIES (78%); AIR FORCES (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); STATISTICS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (83%); US AIR FORCE (55%); US NAVY (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



226 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1810 words

HEADLINE: A Compass That Can Clash With Modern Life

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CAIRO, June 11 

 BODY:
First came the breast-feeding fatwa. It declared that the Islamic restriction on unmarried men and women being together could be lifted at work if the woman breast-fed her male colleagues five times, to establish family ties. Then came the urine fatwa. It said that drinking the urine of the Prophet Muhammad was deemed a blessing.
 For the past few weeks, the breast-feeding and urine fatwas have proved a source of national embarrassment in Egypt, not least because they were issued by representatives of the highest religious authorities in the land.
''We were very angered when we heard about the Danish cartoons concerning our prophet; however, these two fatwas are harming our Islamic religion and our prophet more than the cartoons,'' Galal Amin, a professor of economics at the American University in Cairo, wrote in Al Masry Al Yom, a daily newspaper here. 
 For many Muslims, fatwas, or religious edicts, are the bridge between the principles of their faith and modern life. They are supposed to be issued by religious scholars who look to the Koran and teachings of the Prophet Muhammad for guidance. While the more sensational pronouncements grab attention, the bulk of the fatwas involve the routine of daily life. In Egypt alone, thousands are issued every month.
 The controversy in Cairo has been more than just embarrassing. It comes at a time when religious and political leaders say that there is a crisis in Islam because too many fatwas are being issued, and that many of them rely on ideology more than learning. 
 The complaint has been the subject of recent conferences as government-appointed arbiters of Islamic standards say the fatwa free-for-all has led to the promotion of extremism and intolerance.
 The conflict in Egypt served as a difficult reminder of a central challenge facing Islamic communities as they debate the true nature of the faith and how to accommodate modernity. The fatwa is the front line in the theological battle between often opposing worldviews. It is where interpretation meets daily life.
 ''It is a very critical issue for us,'' said Abdullah Megawer, the former head of the Fatwa Committee at Al Azhar University, the centuries-old seat of Sunni Muslim learning in Egypt. ''You are explaining God's message in ways that really affect people's lives.''
 Technically, the fatwa is nonbinding and recipients are free to look elsewhere for a better ruling. In a faith with no central doctrinal authority, there has been an explosion of places offering fatwas, from Web sites that respond to written queries, to satellite television shows that take phone calls, to radical and terrorist organizations that set up their own fatwa committees.
 ''There is chaos now,'' Mr. Megawer said. ''The problem created is confusion in thought, confusion about what is right and what is wrong, religiously.''
 Governments have tried to guide and control the process, but as they struggled with their own legitimacy, they have often undermined the perceived legitimacy of those they appoint as religious leaders. In Egypt, there are two official institutions responsible for religious interpretation: the House of Fatwa, or Dar Al-Ifta, which formally falls under the Ministry of Justice, and Al Azhar University. All court sentences of death must be approved by Dar Al-Ifta, for example. 
 ''These people in fact are defined as agencies of the government,'' said Muhammad Serag, a professor of Islamic Studies at the American University in Cairo. ''They are not trusted anymore.'' 
 While that view is disputed by officials from both institutions, everyone acknowledges that those who issue fatwas serve as mediators between faith and modernity and as arbiters of morality. They are supposed to consider not only religious teachings, but the circumstances of the time. 
 The position is without parallel in the West, and it combines the role of social worker, therapist, lawyer and religious adviser.
 In fact, the relationship between the Koran and a fatwa is a matter of dispute. Some Muslim scholars view the Koran's words and ideas as fixed, with little room for maneuvering. Others see their job as reconciling modern life with the text by gently bending the text to fit new circumstances. 
 A second issue is the basis for interpretation. The sayings of the Prophet Muhammad, known collectively as the Hadith, also serve as the basis for many fatwas. But those sayings, of which there are thousands, have been passed down orally and may or may not be genuine. Some seek to limit fatwas to the written Koran, as a result.
 A sign hangs on the back wall of a small room that serves as a fatwa center for Egyptians looking for guidance: ''Brother Citizens, the Azhar Fatwa Committee welcomes the masses of citizens and announces that fatwas are free of charge and of fees.'' 
 Tucked just inside the entrance of the historic Al Azhar Mosque in downtown, the center is open six days a week from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. It is a worn room with a soaring ceiling, tattered black couches patched up with packing tape and rickety metal kitchen chairs. Five sheiks sit on the couches and receive people.
 Sheik Abdel Aziz el-Naggar has been offering fatwas for 17 years as an employee of Al Azhar. Like other sheiks, he rotates each month to committees that operate in each of Egypt's regional governates. Over the years, he said, the vast majority of the visitors have asked for help with their marriages.
 ''The greatest ill in society I observe is the lack of trust and knowledge between husband and wife,'' he said. ''A man will think masculinity is being a dictator.''
 At 11:30 one recent morning, a young woman entered and sat in the chair opposite him. She held her son, about 4, on her knee as she explained that her husband had married another woman (four wives are allowed in Islam) and that the new wife was only 18. ''He said he would spend five nights with her and one with me,'' the woman complained. ''Can I ask for a divorce?''
 Under Islam, the sheik advised, all wives must be treated equally. So if she could not work the matter out ''peacefully, then yes, she could ask for a divorce.''
 That was her fatwa.
 A couple approached. The man's clothes were tattered, and his wife looked distressed. Their 9-year-old son's clothing was clean, his hair gelled, his smile bright. The man explained that they had adopted the child when he was 9 months old, and that they had just heard that under Islam their son had to be put out of the house, because the mother had not given birth to him or breast-fed him.
 He would reach puberty as an outsider, and could not, technically, be around the woman he knew as his mother. The imam at their local mosque said it was haram -- forbidden under Islam -- to live with the boy.
 The sheik said yes, that was right, that the boy could not live with them. The father leaned in, disturbed, and said, ''And that's it.''
 The sheik seemed stuck and referred them to another sheik for another opinion.
 That was their fatwa.
 A man wanted to know if he could keep money he had found. Another wanted to know if he needed to testify at a trial if called. A third wanted to know if it was O.K. to buy a car on an installment plan. A mother did not like her son's wife and wanted to know if she could do anything about the marriage. 
 Each consultation took a few minutes. Such questions have been asked for generations.
 Should ancient statues be destroyed or preserved? Should women be allowed to drive, to work, to travel without the permission of men? Can boys and girls attend school together? Is it permissible to buy insurance, to wear a sports jersey with a cross design, to shake hands with a non-Muslim, to take pictures, to view family photographs? 
 All of this has been addressed in fatwas.
 ''We are the conscience of the nation,'' said Abdel Moety Bayoumi, a member of Al Azhar Research Committee, a state-sanctioned body that issues religious opinions and is often behind decisions over which books should be stripped from store shelves and banned.
 In Egypt, and other Muslim countries, where laws must abide by the Koran, fatwas by government-appointed officials can have the weight of law. ''We have to be clear what is at stake here,'' said Egypt's grand mufti, Sheik Ali Gomaa, in a recent speech in London. ''When each and every person's unqualified opinion is considered a fatwa, we have lost a tool that is of the utmost importance to rein in extremism and preserve the flexibility and balance of Islamic law.''
 In his own role and practice, the grand mufti embodies many of the issues that have arisen around the fatwa practice. He has issued rulings that have been deemed by some as so progressive that they were offensive, and others that were so literal as to be considered offensive.
 Sheik Ali issued the urine fatwa, now notorious, in a book, ''Religion and Life.'' It was published six years ago and told the story of a woman who drank the prophet's urine. He had his own book taken off the shelves, and said the controversial statement was not a fatwa but his opinion, which was offered in response to a question.
 ''The reality is that the mufti is now 'burned' and lost religious recognition and the trust of the Muslims and his fatwas will not gain anything but carelessness from all the Muslims; as some will hate it as they hate drinking urine,'' wrote Hamdy Rizk in an opposition newspaper.
 But he was also criticized -- and praised -- earlier this year after he had issued a fatwa saying that it was permissible for women to have reconstructive hymen surgery before marriage to conceal that they were no longer virgins. He said that since it was impossible to tell whether a man was a virgin, women should have the same option.
 But he took his opinion a step further, when he said that if a married woman had sex with another man, regretted her action and asked God for forgiveness, she should not tell her husband. The goal, he reportedly said, was to preserve the family.
 The breast-feeding fatwa came in mid-May. A religious scholar, who headed a department that studies the Prophet Muhammad's teachings at the Foundation of Religion College of Al Azhar University, wrote that there had been instances in the time of the prophet when adult women breast-fed adult men in order to avoid the need for women to wear a veil in front of them.
 ''Breast-feeding an adult puts an end to the problem of the private meeting, and does not ban marriage,'' wrote the scholar, Izat Atiyah. ''A woman at work can take off the veil or reveal her hair in front of someone whom she breast-fed.''
 The ruling was mocked on satellite television shows around the region, and was quickly condemned at home. Mr. Atiyah was suspended from his job, mocked in newspapers and within days issued a retraction, saying it was a ''bad interpretation of a particular case.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A sheik reads the Koran at Al Azhar Mosque in Cairo, where many Egyptians go to solve their problems under religious guidance.
Sheiks at Al Azhar Mosque in Cairo talked last week with Muslims who had come for advice. Those who receive fatwas are free to look elsewhere for another ruling, and the spiritual and practical advice is now offered from a rapidly increasing number of places, even online. (Photographs by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 Sheik Abdel Hamid Tantawy speaking with a man in Al Azhar Mosque in Cairo. Out of such a consultation comes the fatwa, an edict from a sheik on issues as varied as marriage, child-rearing or taking a car loan. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); BREASTFEEDING (91%); MEN (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); TERRORISM (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) EGYPT (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



227 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; SAN FRANCISCO DE YARE JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Dances to Devilish Beat to Promote Tourism

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO DE YARE, Venezuela, June 7 

 BODY:
Wearing blood-colored costumes and devilish papier-mache masks that would make a gargoyle grimace, hundreds of worshipers disguised as demons danced through the streets here Thursday in one of Venezuela's most exalted religious rituals. 
 An Afro-Venezuelan tradition in parishes near the country's Caribbean coast since the late 18th century, the ''Dancing Devils'' have received support from President Hugo Chavez's government as they seek to raise awareness about Venezuelan folklore and promote new forms of tourism.
 This small town, founded in 1718 by slaveholders who controlled nearby cacao and sugarcane plantations, now attracts thousands of visitors each year on the Roman Catholic feast day of Corpus Christi. They watch the devils writhe to drumbeats in a ritual described by residents here as a dance of cultural resistance. 
 ''There are many stories of how this originated, but we know it was above all a way for our ancestors to take part in the life of the church,'' said Pablo Azuaje, 57, the ''capataz,'' or overseer, of the dance. 
 Historians and anthropologists who have studied the Dancing Devils said similar traditions existed in medieval Europe and could still be found in countries like Bolivia and Mexico. In small Venezuelan parishes, and even in Caracas until the end of the 19th century, the Dancing Devils evolved into symbols in the struggle of good versus evil. 
 Here in Yare, as this town south of Caracas is commonly known, the devils dance around the plaza before resting at the entrance to the whitewashed church. After morning Mass, they succumb in an act of submission before the Eucharist, the representation of the body and blood of Christ in wafer and wine, before dancing throughout the town with stops for prayer at dozens of altars. 
 Rafael Strauss, a historian who has studied the Dancing Devils in several Venezuelan communities, said they had their roots in efforts by slaves, ostracized by a rigid colonial caste system, to have an important role in religious life. Once reprimanded by church officials, the devils have come to be tolerated and eventually celebrated. 
 ''The Dancing Devils of the 18th century differed little from the reggaeton performers of today,'' said Mr. Strauss, author of the book ''The Devil in Venezuela,'' referring to contemporary dance music with explicit sexual overtones that was popularized in Puerto Rico before spreading elsewhere in Latin America and the United States. 
 While a prohibition against men and women dancing together has persisted in the Dancing Devils, continuing a tradition which began when the ritual was considered overly sensual, Mr. Strauss said the dance had evolved since Venezuela outlawed slavery in 1854. Though only blacks take part in some small villages, people of varying ethnicities dance in the larger towns like Yare, which boasts the most prominent Dancing Devils ritual. 
 By promoting the devils, largely through advertising, Mr. Chavez's government is following the example set by Romulo Gallegos, the novelist who was Venezuela's president in 1948 before his overthrow in a coup. The devils gained national renown when Mr. Gallegos's government brought them to perform in Caracas, part of an effort to call attention to folkloric traditions at a time when climbing oil revenues were modernizing the country. 
 ''Now we're trying to create a tourism of inclusion,'' said Teorggeena Perez, the tourism coordinator for Yare, explaining how encouraging visitors to sleep in the homes of the dancers and the town's other residents fits within Mr. Chavez's push of ''endogenous development,'' a poverty-eradication effort intended in part to foster economic growth in neglected communities. 
 Indeed, red is not only the color of the devils' clothing, but also of the hats and T-shirts, decorated with pro-Chavez slogans and the initials of his Socialist party, worn by many of the people who came here to watch the dance and sell their wares to other visitors. 
 ''This is a beautiful day for us to do business and see something new,'' said Irma Romero, 55, a member of the Pioneers of the Resurrection Cooperative, a Caracas-based group that manufactures clothing and receives financing from the Communal Economy Ministry to market its products at cultural events around the country. 
 Officials with the state of Miranda, which encompasses Yare and is governed by a close ally of Mr. Chavez, handed out pamphlets that listed the surnames of the families that once owned slaves here and described in detail the origins and characteristics of the Dancing Devils. 
 Those taking part in the ritual seemed blissfully oblivious, at least for a day, of the polarizing political changes sweeping Venezuela, like Mr. Chavez's creation of a single Socialist party for his followers. Others dressed in red were employees of Brahma, the brewer that sold copious amounts of beer on Thursday to visitors from Caracas and other cities. 
 With small crosses made from palm fronds pinned to their shirts, the devils sweated and danced into a trancelike state before resting at midday for a meal of mondongo, a soup made with slow-cooked beef tripe and pigs' feet. Then they continued their dance into the afternoon. 
 ''I've spent all my life devoted to the devils,'' Juan Vicente Morgado, 53, one of Yare's leading mask makers, said in his workshop, where dozens of masks hung on the walls. ''It's one of those things in life in which we look into the grotesque in order to find something positive.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Edgar Serrano worked on his mask to prepare for the ''Dancing Devils,'' which was begun in the 18th century as an Afro-Venezuelan ritual.
 Devotees dressed as devils outside of a church in San Francisco de Yare, Venezuela. The troupe celebrated the Catholic holy day of Corpus Christi by dancing through the streets and stopping to pray at 12 altars throughout the town. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for the New York Times) Map of Venezuela highlighting San Francisco de Yare. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); RELIGION (90%); HISTORY (89%); SLAVERY (89%); DANCE (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FOLKLORE (77%); TOURISM (76%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (75%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); WRITERS (73%); MUSIC (60%); SUGAR FARMING (55%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



228 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: As Congress Turns to Energy, Lobbyists Are Out in Force

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11 

 BODY:
Having tried and failed to overhaul the nation's immigration laws last week, Congress begins what some say is an even more divisive project this week: taming America's thirst for oil.
 With gasoline prices hovering near all-time highs, the Senate on Monday began debating a sprawling energy bill that has already kicked off an epic lobbying war by huge industries, some of them in conflict with one another: car companies, oil companies, electric utilities, coal producers and corn farmers, to name a few.
Industry groups have raced to sign up influential lawmakers and are nervously calculating how much regulation they might have to accept from the Democratic majority in Congress.
 ''This is going to be harder than immigration,'' said John B. Breaux, a former Democratic senator from Louisiana who is representing Cerberus Capital Management, the private equity firm that recently took control of the Chrysler Corporation. ''This is going to be the mother of all bills. By that I mean, any one portion of it is important enough to affect completion of the whole bill.'' 
 Detroit's automakers are lobbying hard against tough fuel economy standards, but they support increased production of ethanol and other alternative fuels.
 But Charles W. Stenholm, a former Democratic representative from Texas, is lobbying on behalf of oil producers and cattle farmers against big subsidies for corn-based ethanol. 
 The Senate bill, as well as a similar measure in the House, would force automakers to increase the fuel economy of their cars and light trucks. It would require a huge expansion of alternative fuels for cars and trucks as well as electric power plants. And it is expected to offer as much as $25 billion in tax breaks over 10 years to promote those fuels.
 ''Bold steps and big ideas,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said in a speech on Monday. ''The Democratic plan is all about harnessing power: the clear, renewable power that exists literally all around us.''
 Senate leaders have allotted up to two weeks for debate, but that may not be enough. It took the Republican-controlled Congress four years to pass the last major energy bill, in 2005, and even that measure almost died because of fights over a peripheral issue involving a fuel additive.
 This time, Democrats are emphasizing renewable fuels, as opposed to the Republican focus on increased oil production.
 But lawmakers from both parties are drafting scores of proposed amendments, many of which would tilt the competitive advantage of one industry over another, and some would cost taxpayers billions of dollars.
 Some debates are over basic questions that seem obvious but are not. Does ''clean'' and ''renewable'' energy include nuclear power? Should the government subsidize only ''renewable'' fuels, like wind or ethanol, or should it subsidize ''alternative'' fuels, including coal-based liquids, that might substitute for oil and reduce dependence on foreign oil? 
 The clash between rival industry agendas was apparent on Monday. Fifteen trade associations and companies from the food industry warned senators in a letter that heavy government subsidies for ethanol would push up prices for corn and other feed, and thus the cost of food.
 ''It is essential to carefully weigh the impacts of these policy actions,'' warned the group, which includes trade associations for beef, pork, turkey and chicken producers as well as big food companies like the H. J. Heinz Company, the Kellogg Company and Nestle.
 Food producers use corn as a feedstock for cattle and poultry as well as an ingredient in things like baked goods and soft drinks. ''We are in favor of developing all the alternative energy that we can, but we need to be as market-oriented as possible,'' said Mr. Stenholm, the former member of Congress from Texas who now lobbies for oil and farming industries. ''You can't produce food and feed without oil and gas, and you can't produce oil and gas without food and feed and fiber.'' 
 As groups jockey for position, the underlying agendas are often less than obvious. 
 The Energy Security Leadership Council, which includes the chief executives of big energy-consuming companies like FedEx and Southwest Airlines, began broadcasting television advertisements Monday night on CNN, Fox and other cable news outlets. 
 The advertisements warn that ''America's enemies understand that oil is the lifeblood of our economy,'' and strongly support higher fuel-economy standards for cars and an expansion of ''alternative fuels.''
 But the group also supports nuclear fuel as an alternative to coal. Coincidentally or not, a co-founder of the group is John Rowe, chief executive of the Exelon Corporation, an electric utility company that is also the nation's biggest operator of nuclear power plants.
 Amid all the complexity of the energy bills, the biggest fights are likely to center on a handful of issues.
 One fight will be over whether to increase the government's mandate for production of renewable fuels for cars and trucks to 36 billion gallons a year in 2022 from about 8.6 billion gallons a year in 2008. 
 President Bush proposed a similar goal in January, but Mr. Bush's mandate could be satisfied in part with coal-based liquid fuels. The coal industry, which has political support in both parties, is pushing for the government to guarantee billions of dollars in loans for coal-to-liquid plants as well as price subsidies and long-term government purchases.
 Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, the chairman of the Energy Committee and the Senate bill's main author, has opposed big government support for coal-to-liquid fuels. But House Democrats have already included coal measures in early drafts of their energy bill.
 A second fight will be over increased fuel-economy requirements for cars and light trucks. The Senate bill would require that cars, pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles have a combined average mileage of 35 miles per gallon by 2020. The current requirement is 27.5 miles per gallon for cars and 24 miles per gallon for light trucks.
 Car manufacturers are fiercely fighting the measure, though they have agreed to the general call for higher fuel-economy requirements. The manufacturers are insisting that light trucks and sport utility vehicles be allowed to meet a lower mileage standard.
 House Democrats are bogged down in a major intraparty battle over a related issue. A bill drafted by two Democrats, Representative Rick Boucher of Virginia and Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, would reverse a Supreme Court ruling that directed the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate carbon dioxide as a pollutant.
 The draft bill has set off a furor among lawmakers, governors and attorneys general from California and 11 other states that want to impose tough new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide.
 A third big fight is likely over a section in Mr. Bingaman's bill that would create a ''renewable energy standard'' for electric utilities by requiring them to produce 15 percent of their power from renewable sources of energy by 2020.
 Electric utilities and coal producers are opposed. Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the ranking Republican on the Energy Committee, is expected to offer a substitute ''clean energy'' standard that would allow utilities to use nuclear and ''clean coal'' technologies to meet their requirements. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about industry lobbying to shape energy legislation gave an incorrect identification in some copies for the group that is running advertisements in favor of expanded use of alternative fuels. It is the Energy Security Leadership Council, not the National Commission on Energy Policy. The article also left an incorrect impression in some copies that John Rowe, the chief executive of the Exelon Corporation, an electric utility company that operates nuclear power plants, was connected to those advertisements. The article noted that Mr. Rowe, ''coincidentally or not,'' is a co-founder of the Energy Security Leadership Council.'' In fact, he is the head of the National Commission on Energy Policy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, says the Democrats' plan involves ''bold steps and big ideas'' and focuses on renewable power. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ETHANOL (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); FUEL ADDITIVES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); CORN FARMING (75%); POWER PLANTS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); COAL INDUSTRY (70%); TAX RELIEF (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



229 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Chance of Yankee Thunder in Forecast at Fenway

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Projections in baseball are overused and meaningless. It's just plain foolish to say or think that because Alex Rodriguez hit 14 home runs in the Yankees' first 18 games that he's going to hit 126 home runs this season. Not even Barry Bonds, in his body-boggling prime, could have done that.
 But here is one projection that could actually have some potential as a barometer. Even better, it could create some fun: At the rate at which the Yankees are slashing into Boston's lead in the American League East, they will pass the Red Sox in the standings by July 4. 
If that happens, can you imagine the fireworks in the Red Sox' front office, their dugout, their clubhouse, at Fenway Park? Fenway would become a pyrotechnic pit. Fenway fans, burned once more, might torch their season tickets. 
 Impossible, you say? There's no way the Yankees could catch the Red Sox in the next three months, let alone the next three weeks? Curb your skepticism and look at the facts: Only 10 days ago, the Red Sox led the Yankees by 13 1/2 games; today, their lead is 9 1/2. 
 Beginning with their stunning 6-5 victory over Boston on June 3, a game that might have turned their season around, the Yankees sliced three games from the Red Sox' lead in four days. Another four days and another game was gone in the standings. Four games in eight days. 
 And remember, it wasn't long ago -- May 29, in fact -- that the Red Sox' advantage was 14 1/2 games, half a game larger than the largest lead the Red Sox held over the Yankees in 1978, the year of Boston's unforgettable collapse. Which prompts a thought. Now that the Red Sox have won another World Series and expunged ''1918'' from their vocabulary, perhaps the next time Yankees fans see the Red Sox they can greet them with a new chant: ''nineteen-seventy-eight, nineteen-seventy-eight.'' 
 On Aug. 28, the day that these teams next meet on the field, fans can adorn Yankee Stadium with signs in big numbers saying 1978. In fact, it's easy to change the old signs that taunted the Red Sox: just make the second 1 in 1918 into a 7.
 Speaking of 1978, the Yankees didn't eradicate their 14-game deficit overnight. They went quickly from 14 to 10 in only four days, then picked up two more games during the following four-day period. But from July 27 on it was a slow process; a month later, the Yankees had sliced only half a game from their deficit, meaning that they lagged seven and a half games behind Boston with five weeks left in the season.
 The point is that even if the Yankees don't continue to slash gobs of games from Boston's lead in the coming days or weeks, it doesn't mean that the Red Sox are safe. Sixteen weeks remain in the season, which is plenty of time for dramatic events to occur.
 This seems to be a good point for a disclaimer. Lest anyone think I am rooting for the Yankees to win the division championship, be assured that I don't care which team wins. The New York Times Company owns 17 percent of the Red Sox, but my continued employment by The Times does not depend on my allegiance to company products.
 Contrary to what any number of Red Sox fans think, I am not a Yankees fan either. I have never been a Yankees fan. As a reporter who covered the Yankees for more than 16 years, I could not have survived had I also been a fan.
 But while I am not a fan of either team, I do root for a good story, and having lightning strike a second time would be a good story. 
 Obviously, certain factors would have to contribute to Lightning Strike II. Probably the most critical factor will be the Yankees' pitching. It has to be good enough to sustain winning streaks. 
 It wasn't good enough in the first two months, but now the key starters are all healthy, and the rotation has been fortified by the addition of Roger Clemens.
 Clemens, Chien-Ming Wang, Andy Pettitte and Mike Mussina should be good enough to match the Boston starters. That rotation has an unbeaten Josh Beckett (9-0), but it also has two pitchers, Tim Wakefield and Julian Tavarez, who have losing records on a team that has the best record in the major leagues.
 The Yankees' starting pitchers have hardly been overwhelming, but with the hitters now hitting the way they had been expected to hit, maybe the pitchers will be inspired to raise their level of performance. 
 Meanwhile, having Clemens in the rotation with the Yankees now making a move makes a lot more sense than having him pitch for a team going nowhere. With the Yankees, until recently, looking like a hopeless team, people had begun questioning the wisdom of signing Clemens to a $28 million contract, the richest one-year baseball contract ever. But if it helps produce that second lightning strike, no one will question it. 
 Is Clemens worth $28 million, or even the prorated $17.4 million he will earn? Worth is in the mind of the beholder. The Yankees were desperate for an established pitcher. None were available in a trade, and the free-agent market isn't open during the season. Clemens was the only established pitcher available.
 In the economic world of supply and demand, when there is great demand and little supply, the seller has a huge advantage. Clemens's agent said $28 million, and the Yankees said, Where do we sign? 
 And if Clemens can keep pitching the way he did last Saturday against Pittsburgh, he will be worth the money and Lightning Strike II might just become a reality. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Behind the powerful bats of players like Alex Rodriguez, the Yankees have won 9 of 11 games. (Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



230 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: For a Russian Builder of Nuclear Plants, Business Is Booming

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 6 

 BODY:
The Russian nuclear power company Atomstroyexport has been roundly criticized for helping Iran build its nuclear program. But neither that project nor the company's mouthful of a name has hurt its business prospects. 
 A former branch of the Soviet atomic energy ministry, Atomstroyexport (pronounced atom-stroy-EXPORT) has been the Kremlin's main instrument to meet rising global demand for nuclear power, now mainly from developing countries.
And Russia's state company may just be the right kind of provider, willing to deal with governments that other nuclear power companies shun.
 ''We're talking about a nuclear renaissance,'' Sergei I. Shmatko, the chief executive of Atomstroyexport, said in a recent interview in the company's headquarters in Moscow. ''We are certain we have a market.'' 
 Atomstroyexport is building seven nuclear reactors -- in Iran, China, Bulgaria and India -- more reactors, it claims, than any competitor, particularly Westinghouse and General Electric of the United States, Siemens of Germany or Areva of France. 
 Westinghouse, for example, has contracts for four new reactors in China, but has not begun work. It is a subcontractor or supplier at other sites, including six in South Korea, but is not the primary builder, a spokesman, Vaughn Gilbert, said in a telephone interview. Reactors designed by Westinghouse, however, remain the most prevalent in the world -- 45 percent of currently operating reactors. 
 In raising capital and gearing up for new construction, the Russians are betting on an outlook that not everybody shares. 
 Regardless of what choices are made in America, Japan and Europe, which remain wary of new nuclear power plants, the world is poised for another boom in construction, reminiscent of the 1960s and 1970s, as one nation after another seeks alternatives to the fossil fuels that are a culprit in global warming. 
 Today, 26 power plants are under construction worldwide, in countries from Argentina to Romania, according to the International Energy Agency. Of these, only two are being built in developed economies -- one each in Finland and Japan. 
 Still, some industry experts project that future demand will come from the developed economies, including the United States. 
 Steven C. Kerekes, spokesman for the Nuclear Energy Institute, representing owners and operators of nuclear plants in the United States, said he expected that utilities would build 30 reactors in the next 15 to 20 years. The United States now operates 104 nuclear reactors, more than any other country. 
 The Russians, meanwhile, are in talks with Vietnam, Malaysia, Egypt, Namibia, Morocco, South Africa, Algeria, Brazil, Chile and Argentina, according to Mr. Shmatko.
 In a sign of the Russians' reach into markets others might avoid, last month the Russian company opened negotiations for a research reactor in Myanmar, formerly Burma, a country ruled by a junta. 
 In Iran, critics say, the Russian company's work on the Bushehr plant gives the Iranian government a justification to enrich uranium, which the United States says could also be used to make bomb-grade fissile material. 
 The Russians counter that the reactor itself is harmless if looked at separately from the effort to enrich uranium fuel. They say the site on the Persian Gulf complies with international treaties and does not contribute to nuclear proliferation. 
 But Atomstroyexport seems eager to rebrand itself as a modern corporation with global reach and interests -- not merely as the supplier of nuclear expertise to Iran. Indeed, analysts of nuclear proliferation have not been easy on the company. Many say its narrow business interests have needlessly exposed the United States, Europe, Israel and possibly even Russia, too, to the risk that Iran may one day be able to build a nuclear bomb.
 Mr. Shmatko said in the interview in his office that the $1 billion project no longer even appeared profitable to the Russians and his company, because of rising prices for stainless steel and a shortage of skilled labor in the nuclear industry. He suggested that it was a drag rather than a benefit for Russia's nuclear business.
 Yet the Iran contract is only a small part of the company's global work and its expansive plans in the developing world. 
 Atomstroyexport hopes to win $5 billion to $10 billion in new business in the coming two years, Mr. Shmatko said. 
 In doing so, he said the company was shaking off Russia's dark legacy of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster by convincing foreign governments of engineering advances in Russian designs since then. Mr. Shmatko said his company's plant in Tianwan, China, is the first in the world to use a ''core catcher,'' a meltdown-control technology designed to trap the molten slug of uranium in a meltdown and prevent it from burrowing into the earth. 
 The company, he said, is also introducing a new design for emerging markets. It has a line of minireactors more typical of the power plants for nuclear submarines or ice breakers. They are sized to fit the limited capacity of ramshackle electricity grids in developing countries, he said.
 Industrial reactors typically produce around 1,000 megawatts of electricity, enough to power a million American homes. Atomstroyexport says it will market reactors in the 300- to 600-megawatt range.
 Indeed, with the potential profits at stake, Western investors, including such heavyweights as Citigroup, are seeking ways to bet on the Russian nuclear power industry.
 Russia is pushing a business model that bundles nuclear fuel supplies with power plant construction contracts and that seeks to ensure that spent fuel -- a potential ingredient for dirty bombs or fission weapons -- is returned to Russia for storage.
 ''The world has no alternative but to develop nuclear energy,'' Mr. Shmatko, a former accountant, said.
 For now, investors can buy Atomstroyexport corporate bonds that were issued last month and attracted European and American investment houses. The Russian-registered subsidiary of JPMorgan, for example, bought into the $58 million offering, according to Atomstroyexport. A spokeswoman for JPMorgan said it had held only a ''very short-term trading position'' in the bond and no longer owned any Atomstroyexport bonds.
 Subsidiaries of a related company, Tvel, which makes fuel rods, trade on Russian exchanges. Citigroup owns about 5 percent of the Priargunsk uranium mine that is part of the Tvel group, according to the mine's Web site. 
 On May 31, Sergei V. Kiriyenko, a former prime minister and head of the Russian atomic energy agency, said the government planned to consolidate nuclear assets into a state-controlled holding -- a sort of Gazprom of nuclear power -- to be called Atomenergoprom. That company would incorporate not only Atomstroyexport and Tvel but also uranium mines and companies that make fuel rod assemblies and specialized equipment like gas centrifuges for enriching uranium. Subsidiaries will most likely be open to foreign investment, analysts say.
 For Russia, the business of building nuclear power plants complements its business in fossil fuels. In fact, Russia's business of maintaining Soviet-designed plants in Eastern Europe may get a boost as these countries worry about excess dependency on Russian natural gas from Gazprom and reconsider nuclear energy as an alternative.
 Atomstroyexport's exact ownership, meanwhile, is something of a mystery. Organized as a joint stock company, it is 50.2 percent owned, and clearly controlled, by the Russian government. 
 The rest of the shares, the company's Web site says, are owned by ''Gazprombank group companies.'' 
 Marina V. Alekseenkova, an industrial analyst with Renaissance Capital in Moscow and an authority on publicly traded companies in the Russian nuclear industry, said that the phrasing shed little light on the private shareholders in the company, believed to be industry and government insiders. 
 And those already concerned about Russia's role in the spread of nuclear technology should consider this: the Russian Atomic Energy agency is looking into developing floating reactors built on pontoons. The Russians envision a product that could be towed into ports in the developing world and hooked to the local power grid, for a fee. 
 ''We are, generally speaking, the absolute monopoly here,'' Russia's first deputy prime minister, Sergei B. Ivanov, said of the floating reactors. ''Nobody apart from us is able or knows how to build them.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Russian checks equipment at the Bushehr, Iran, nuclear plant. (Photo by Behrouz Mehri/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C1)
 Russian workers at the Bushehr plant in Iran. The Russians are also said to be in talks with Vietnam, Malaysia, Egypt, Namibia, Morocco, South Africa, Algeria, Brazil, Chile and Argentina. (Photo by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Map of Asia showing the location of the reactors: Atomstroyexport is building seven nuclear reactors worldwide. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (86%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: JSC ATOMSTROYEXPORT (95%); AREVA SA (90%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); SIEMENS AG (55%)

TICKER: AREVA (PAR) (90%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); SIN (SWX) (55%); SIE (LSE) (55%); SIE (FRA) (55%); SIE (BIT) (55%); SI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS562211 HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (90%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (90%); NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: SERGEI SHMATKO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); NAMIBIA (92%); CHINA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EGYPT (92%); MYANMAR (92%); MOROCCO (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BULGARIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); ROMANIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



231 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: The Divide In Caring For Our Kids

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, Teri Hatcher, one of the stars of the television series ''Desperate Housewives,'' was on David Letterman's show, talking very animatedly about a time when her daughter needed emergency dental care.
 ''It was causing her some pain,'' Ms. Hatcher said. ''And then, of course, it was a Friday night. Overnight the whole thing blew up and it turned out to be an abscess.'' 
Where to get a dentist on a Saturday?
 Luckily, Ms. Hatcher's best friend is married to a dentist who was more than happy to open up his office that Saturday. But he needed an assistant. Ms. Hatcher volunteered.
 She digressed: ''I hate the dentist . Just my whole life, you know. It's the worst. I would do anything to get out of going to the dentist. Really. Anything.''
 But Ms. Hatcher stood there like a trouper as the dentist examined her daughter's tooth. ''He sees it is an abscess, and he has to do surgery,'' she said. ''So you, I'm trying to -- I hate it. I'm squeamish. I'm going to throw up, and then I'm trying to pull it together
 ''So he does the Novocaine and gives her a little of the gas. She is perfectly fine, because she's going, 'I love the dentist. I want to come here every day.' And then, of course, I'm thinking, 'Can I take a tank of that home? Because that is really what I need.' ''
 And so on. The story, of course, had a happy ending. Ms. Hatcher's daughter was fine. Mr. Letterman got to tell a raunchy dentist joke. The audience was amused, and Ms. Hatcher eventually exited to a robust round of applause.
 I was particularly interested in the segment because just a few hours earlier I had filed a column for the next day's paper about health care for children. The column included the story of Deamonte Driver, a homeless 12-year-old from Prince George's County, Md., who also had an abscessed tooth.
 Now, if I had been in Ms. Hatcher's position, I would have done exactly as she did. I would have knocked down doors if necessary to get help for a child in distress. So this is no criticism of her. It's an illustration of the kind of stunning differences in fortune that can face youngsters living at opposite ends of America's vast economic divide.
 Deamonte needed his tooth pulled, a procedure that was estimated to cost $80. But his mother, Alyce Driver, had no health insurance for her children. She believes their Medicaid coverage lapsed early this year because of a bureaucratic foul-up, perhaps because paperwork was mailed to a homeless shelter after they had left. In any event, it would have been difficult for Ms. Driver to find an oral surgeon willing to treat a Medicaid patient.
 Untreated, the pain in Deamonte's tooth grew worse. He was taken to a hospital emergency room, where he was given medication for pain and sinusitis and sent home.
 What started as a toothache now became a nightmare. Bacteria from the abscess had spread to Deamonte's brain. The child was in agony, and on Feb. 25 he died.
 There's a presidential election under way, but this sort of thing is not a big part of the campaign. American children are dying because of a lack of access to health care, and we're worried about Mitt Romney's religion and asking candidates to raise their hands to show whether they believe in evolution. I'm starting to believe in time travel because there's no doubt this nation is moving backward.
 ''There can be no keener revelation of a society's soul,'' Nelson Mandela once said, ''than the way in which it treats its children.''
 There are nine million children who lack health care in the U.S. and millions more who are eligible for coverage but fall through the cracks for one reason or another.
 What we need is a national commitment to provide basic health care to all children, not just the children of the well-to-do. This should be a no-brainer. You're a child in the United States? You've got health care. We're not going to let you die from a toothache. We're better than that. We're not going to let your family go bankrupt because you've got cancer or some other disease, or because you've been in a terrible accident.
 The cost? Don't fall for that bogyman. 
 There's plenty of give in America's glittering $13 trillion economy. What's the sense of being the richest nation on the planet if you can't even afford to keep your children healthy and alive?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); TOOTH DISORDERS (77%); DENTAL INSURANCE (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); DENTISTRY (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); MEDICAID (65%)

PERSON: TERI HATCHER (91%); DAVID LETTERMAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



232 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Bush, on European Tour, Perfects the Art of Meet and Run

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: SOFIA, Bulgaria, June 11 

 BODY:
''It's good to be here in your beautiful country,'' President Bush told President Georgi Parvanov of Bulgaria on Monday morning. He would be in the ''beautiful country'' for roughly 20 hours, half of them spent inside his hotel. In the world of White House travel, that is an eternity.
 Being on the road with Mr. Bush invariably invokes comparisons to that old movie ''If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium,'' and his eight-day, six-country European tour was no exception. Mr. Bush is not one to linger or to waste time -- this is, after all, the president who traveled to India and skipped seeing the Taj Mahal -- but the Europe trip may have set some sort of record for speed. 
 Mr. Bush did stay put in Heiligendamm, Germany, for two full days to attend a meeting of leaders of the world's leading economic powers. And he spent two nights in Rome, staying at the home of the American ambassador, Ronald P. Spogli, an old friend of his from Harvard Business School, who helped raise more than $100,000 for each of Mr. Bush's presidential campaigns before getting his plum assignment. 
 Often, though, he was a man on the run. ''I'm proud to be the first American sitting president to visit Albania,'' Mr. Bush told Prime Minister Sali Berisha on Monday. ''It's a great honor to represent my country here. I've really been looking forward to this trip and so has my wife, Laura.'' The Bushes spent eight hours in Albania, sandwiching the stop between Rome and Sofia.
 That was nothing compared with Mr. Bush's visit to Poland, where he had dinner at President Lech Kaczynski''s private retreat, a sort of Camp David by the sea. It was a spectacular landscape, overlooking the glittering Baltic, and Mr. Bush gushed as he spoke to reporters with Mr. Kaczynski by his side. ''This is our third trip to Poland,'' the president said. ''We have never been in this beautiful part of your country, and it's spectacular.''
 Those words were spoken at an airplane hangar in Gdansk, with Air Force One parked outside, so that Mr. Bush could make a hasty exit after his three-hour stay. Wheels of One's Own 
 Where Air Force One goes, so does ''the beast.''
 The beast is what the Secret Service calls Mr. Bush's limousine, the heavily fortified black Cadillac with the presidential license plates. At the Group of 8 meeting in Germany, the other world leaders arrived for dinner in minivans provided by their German hosts. Mr. Bush arrived in the beast.
 Mr. Bush actually travels with two limousines, transported by military jet, either a C-5 or a C-17. They serve not only as his wheels, but as his protection; when he was mobbed by admirers in Albania, he stood on the running board of his limousine to wave at the screaming crowd. The Secret Service promptly drove the backup limo close behind him, to keep him covered from the rear.
 But the beast is not always reliable, as the president discovered in Rome. While traveling from the Vatican to the American Embassy, the limousine stalled, giving the Secret Service a scare and forcing Mr. Bush's motorcade of about two dozen cars to come to a halt for five minutes.
 The car eventually started back up and completed the trip, then had trouble squeezing through the embassy gates. So Mr. Bush got out and walked in.
 The beast was later seen in a shady spot with its hood up, a mechanic poking his head underneath. The small presidential seal was taken off the door, and the backup limousine was pressed into service for Mr. Bush's short ride to his next public appearance that day, with Prime Minister Romano Prodi at Chigi Palace.
 No word from the White House on what the trouble was. A Style Like No Other 
 By the time Mr. Bush left Sofia for Washington on Monday afternoon, he had already taken six plane flights and at least that many helicopter rides.
 After eight days on the road and a bout with an unspecified stomach ailment that kept him in bed one morning in Germany, he could perhaps be excused for sounding a bit punchy.
 ''I call him George,'' the president said of President Parvanov, whose first name is Georgi, as they stood side by side in a grand hall of the Museum of National Archaeology here. Mr. Bush then paused for effect, adding, ''He calls me George.''
 But when the president praised the other George for winning admission to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, he tripped over his syntax. ''We're proud to stand with you in NATO,'' Mr. Bush said. ''These are big achievements for this country, and the people of Bulgaria ought to be proud of the achievements that they have achieved.''
 Later in the day, Mr. Bush met with 10 current and former students at the Elieff Center for Education and Culture at the American University in Bulgaria. They included several Bulgarians, a Serb, a resident of Kosovo, an Albanian and a young woman from Afghanistan. The event was intended to highlight the benefits that education can bring, not only in economic development but also in cultural understanding.
 During the session, Mr. Bush exhibited some cultural understanding of his own. During a chat with Nita Gojani, a Kosovar with purple-dyed hair, she told him that she had at one point studied in Hawaii.
 ''So,'' the president of the United States asked, ''were you one of those surfer chicks?'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two American Secret Service agents seen through a window on Sunday as they secured the airport in Sofia, Bulgaria, before the arrival yesterday of President Bush, who was on the final leg of his European tour. (Photo by Dimitar Dilkoff/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (92%); ALBANIA (92%); BULGARIA (92%); GERMANY (90%); INDIA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



233 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: China's Trade Surplus Near High

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 11 

 BODY:
China's politically sensitive trade surplus soared in May to the third-highest monthly level on record, government figures released on Monday showed. The figures are likely to increase pressure from United States lawmakers for sanctions against Beijing. 
 The surplus reached $22.5 billion (16.9 billion euros), an increase of 73 percent from May 2006, the Chinese customs agency said on its Web site. Exports jumped 28.7 percent, while imports rose 19.1 percent.
China has promised to narrow its growing trade gap under pressure from Washington and other governments, but economists say the multibillion-dollar surpluses will probably continue.
 The United States wants Beijing to raise the value of its currency, the yuan, which critics say is undervalued and gives Chinese exporters an unfair advantage.
 Senior American and Chinese envoys met last month for the second round of a high-level dialogue to address trade disputes. But they failed to defuse tensions with the United States Congress, where lawmakers say that support for trade penalties is growing.
 The United States reported a $232.5 billion trade deficit with China in 2006.
 President Hu Jintao's government says it is taking steps to rein in booming exports by imposing taxes on steel shipments and repealing export rebates.
 The May surplus was just below the $23.8 billion surplus reported in February, but experts said that figure was swelled by exporters shipping goods early to beat a change in taxes that was expected to occur in March. The March surplus was $6.9 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (73%); SHIPMENTS (73%); EURO (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EXPORT PROMOTION (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (71%); WEB SITES (56%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



234 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health&Fitness; CASES WITHOUT BORDERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: In Mexico, Diabetes Strains Lives and Budgets

BYLINE: By ELIZA BARCLAY

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 11 

 BODY:
Ten years after she learned she had Type 2 diabetes, Teresa Sanchez bought her first blood sugar meter, a small, hand-held device that cost $100, a quarter of her monthly pension.
 Before she got the meter, Ms. Sanchez, 52, had to go to a low-cost laboratory or a doctor's office to have her blood sugar tested. Sometimes months passed without a test, and then she would discover that the level had crept to 400 or 500 milligrams per deciliter, two to four times normal.
Those years of hyperglycemia, or high blood glucose levels, have led to extensive complications: nerve damage in her legs and feet, feeble vision and glaucoma, and incontinence from the strain on her kidneys and bladder. She also complains of frequent nausea and weakness.
 For diabetics in the developing world, the most basic tools necessary to keep their illness in check represent a major expense. Yet doing without them can be far more expensive in the long run, and harmful to their health. 
 Many diabetics in Mexico and other developing countries are finding themselves unable to work, jeopardizing their families' livelihood. Ms. Sanchez once supplemented her pension by selling clothes to her neighbors, but her painful feet now restrict her mobility.
 ''I am worried about the future,'' she said. ''I am raising three children and everything has changed in my life because of this disease.''
 Even now, controlling her blood sugar might have remained beyond her reach if not for the intervention of a doctor she met after being hospitalized in December with a bladder infection.
 The doctor, Marco Reynoso, is a rare visionary in Mexico's vast and often inept public health system. An internal medicine specialist, Dr. Reynoso, 49, has intervened in the lives of the scores of working-class diabetics who pass through the Mexican government's Dario Fernandez Fierro General Hospital.
 For 23 years, Dr. Reynoso has counseled diabetics like Ms. Sanchez, imploring them to invest in blood sugar meters and keep meticulous daily charts of their levels. He also runs educational courses and fairs for diabetics at the hospital, though he receives no resources or extra pay for his efforts and sometimes has to hold his classes in the hallways.
 ''We need to re-educate people and reform their habits, particularly their food and exercise plans,'' he said. ''It's easy to control diabetes, and not that expensive, yet the disease so often becomes problematic.''
 Diabetes is Mexico's leading cause of death, with 138 deaths per 100,000 adults aged 20 to 84 in 2000, compared with 82 per 100,000 in the United States, according to data from the National Institute of Geographic and Statistical Information. And the prevalence rate here is among the world's highest -- 10.7 percent among adults aged 20 to 69. 
 The Mexican Diabetes Federation estimates that 6.5 million to 10 million Mexicans have diabetes, and that 2 million of those cases have not been diagnosed. Only 10 percent of diabetics have blood sugar meters and are in good control of their disease, the federation said.
 According to a 2003 study by the World Health Organization, the total combined annual direct and indirect costs associated with diabetes in Latin America and the Caribbean in 2000 were estimated at $65.2 billion. In Mexico, direct and indirect costs were $15.1 billion.
 Diabetes is also impoverishing families at the household level. According to the International Diabetes Federation, families in Latin America pay 40 percent to 60 percent of the cost of diabetes care from their own pockets. In Mexico, where medical care is financed by an amalgam of public and private sources, half the population is uninsured.
 ''When diabetics in their 40s and 50s have complications like foot problems or congestive heart failure, they're going to be less productive and their families may go bankrupt taking care of them,'' said Jonathan Brown, a health economist and a senior investigator at the Kaiser Permanente Center for Health Research. ''Instead of the money going toward raising the kids, it goes toward taking care of the parents.''
 Ms. Sanchez, whose husband died several years ago, has three children. Though she has government-paid health insurance, thanks to her former job as a janitor for a state university, she must pay out of pocket for her monitor and some of her medicine, all of which come to about $200 a month.
 While her insurance should cover her insulin, it was out of stock at the hospital pharmacy one recent week, so she had to go to a private drugstore and buy it with her own money. And her insurance does not cover the lancets she uses to prick her finger to draw blood, the blood test strips, the syringes to inject insulin, the rubbing alcohol or the cotton swabs. ''It's very hard economically,'' she said.
 One remedy, experts say, is self-management education, which teaches diabetics how to regulate their blood sugar levels, avoid complications and keep costs down.
 Ms. Sanchez said that in her 10 years with the disease, she rarely received practical advice on what to eat and how to monitor her blood sugar levels.
 ''I was told to take my pills and not eat so much bread and tortillas, that was all,'' she said. ''They never told me my levels were far too high, and never explained the risks of complications. I would have taken better care of myself and eaten less had I known what would happen to me.''
 Dr. Reynoso's educational approach is tailored for people with resources stretched thin: he understands they cannot join a gym, so he gives them tips on how to exercise at work. And he advises them on how to find affordable ingredients to prepare low-fat, sugar-free meals.
 Mexico's state-run health institutions are developing educational programs for diabetics.
 ''Mexico is making an effort to improve quality of care and educational programs for diabetics,'' said Alberto Barcelo, regional adviser for the Pan-American Health Organization's noncommunicable diseases unit. ''There is a lot of effort from the government to prioritize the disease, especially compared with other countries in Latin America.''
 But Enrique Manero, executive director of the Mexican Diabetes Federation, says that fewer than 10 percent of Mexican diabetics are receiving self-management education.
 ''Many people don't know the resources exist, but others don't attend the workshops because of indolence or indifference,'' Mr. Manero said. ''They hear about the complications but don't think they will happen to them.'' 
 Ms. Sanchez says she will attend Dr. Reynoso's diabetes course once her feet improve. And once she can maintain her blood sugar levels over the long term, her costs should go down.
 ''For now I can't buy my children shoes or books because the medications are so expensive,'' Ms. Sanchez said. ''But I want to get better and I want to work again.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: HOME THERAPY -- Teresa Sanchez of Mexico City, who lives on $400 a month and supports three children, recently bought a blood sugar meter after having had diabetes for 10 years. She says she ''would have taken better care of myself and eaten less had I known what would happen to me.'' Center, her son Raul Martinez Sanchez giving her an insulin injection. (Photographs by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIABETES (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (74%); GLAUCOMA (74%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (72%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (72%); FAMILY (72%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); INCONTINENCE (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (87%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



235 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: In Sudan, an Animal Migration to Rival Serengeti

BYLINE: By CARL ZIMMER

 BODY:
The first aerial survey of southern Sudan in 25 years has revealed vast migrating herds, rivaling those of the Serengeti plains, that have managed to survive 25 years of civil war, the Wildlife Conservation Society and Southern Sudan will announce today at a news conference in New York. 
 J. Michael Fay, a conservationist at the Wildlife Conservation Society and explorer-in-residence at the National Geographic Society, who has participated in the surveys, said in a telephone interview from Chad that southern Sudan's herds of more than a million gazelle and antelope may even surpass the Serengeti's herds of wildebeest, making the newly surveyed migration the largest on earth. 
''It's so far beyond anything you've ever seen, you can't believe it,'' Dr. Fay said. ''You think you're hallucinating.''
 Southern Sudan, an area of about 225,000 square miles, sits between the Sahara and Africa's belt of tropical forests. Wildlife biologists have long known that its grasslands, woodlands and swamps were home to elephants, zebras, giraffes and other animals. Before the civil war, an estimated 900,000 white-eared kob (a kind of antelope) had been seen migrating there. But in 1983 wildlife research ground to a halt with the outbreak of civil war.
 Rebel fighters of the Sudan People's Liberation Army battled government forces, as well as Arab militias that swept down from the north on horseback. In the next two decades, more than two million people died. In 2005 the Sudanese government and the rebels signed an agreement, establishing the Government of Southern Sudan.
 Wildlife biologists could only wonder what happened to Sudan's animals during that time. Experience has shown that wars can be devastating to wildlife. As peacetime protections collapse, poachers sweep in to kill animals for meat, horn and ivory. Armies shoot game to feed themselves. 
 ''In places like Angola and Mozambique, the parks just got wiped out,'' Dr. Fay said. In the 1990s, pilots returning from relief missions to Southern Sudan told bleak stories. ''People were saying that wildlife is finished there,'' said Paul Elkan, the director of the Wildlife Conservation Society's Southern Sudan Country Program, in a telephone interview from Nairobi. Some species, like the oryx, a long-horned antelope, were thought to have been wiped out.
 But signs of hope turned up near the end of the war. Malik Marjan, a Sudanese graduate student at the University of Massachusetts, conducted a ground survey in Boma National Park. He and his colleagues saw healthy populations of white-eared kob. 
 Last January, Mr. Marjan joined Dr. Fay and Dr. Elkan in the first aerial survey of Southern Sudan in 25 years. On their first day of surveying in Boma, they flew over thousands of white-eared kob. Dr. Fay, who has flown more than 70,000 miles of aerial surveys in Africa, was taken aback. ''As soon as we saw that, we said, 'This place is insane.' ''
 For the next month, Dr. Fay and his colleagues retraced the path of the last aerial surveys before the war. The white-eared kob were joined by hundreds of thousands of mongalla gazelles and tiang, a species of antelope. They formed a gigantic column that stretched 30 miles across and 50 miles long. ''It was just solid animals the whole way,'' Dr. Fay said.
 The biologists estimated there were 1.3 million kob, tiang and gazelle in their survey area. That is close to the size of migrating herds of wildebeest on the Serengeti, long considered the biggest migration of mammals. But Dr. Fay and his colleagues suspected that because they were replicating prewar survey methods, their estimates were low. New survey methods, such as digital photography, were likely to raise it above the Serengeti.
 ''My personal feeling is that it's the biggest migration on earth,'' Dr. Fay said, ''but we just haven't proved it yet.'' 
 Other animals are also thriving in parts of Southern Sudan, including elephants, ostriches, lions, leopards, hippos and buffalo. Biologists have even spotted oryx, which were thought to be extinct. But some species are faring badly. Southern Sudan used to be home to many zebras. In the 1982 survey, scientists estimated that 20,000 were living in Boma National Park alone. The Wildlife Conservation team found no zebras in Boma at all, and only a few elsewhere. 
 The scientists also observed that most species suffered badly in the western part of the region. In 1981, about 60,000 buffalo lived in Southern Sudan National Park. Now, Dr. Fay said, ''Not one buffalo did we see.'' 
 Geography may explain much of their results. Poachers on horseback could ride into the western part of Southern Sudan, but the Nile River and a giant swamp called the Sudd proved to be an impenetrable shield protecting the eastern region of Southern Sudan.
 Migrating animals also fared better than animals that stayed put year-round. ''Their wet-season refuge is very isolated, so even if they were heavily hunted in the dry season, they would have a buffer,'' Dr. Elkan said.
 The survey was conducted by the Wildlife Conservation Society in cooperation with the Government of Southern Sudan. The government is already taking steps to protect its wildlife, said Maj. Gen. Alfred Akwoch, undersecretary of the Ministry of Environment, Wildlife Conservation and Tourism. The Sudan People's Liberation Army is deploying some of its soldiers to protect the parks. ''We are training them now with the basic knowledge of wildlife conservation,'' General Akwoch said.
 It will also be necessary to balance the conservation of wildlife with the economic recovery from the war, Dr. Elkan said. ''You have oil exploration in the northern part of the Sudd already,'' he said. ''Oil permits have already been handed out throughout most of the migratory corridor for the tiang and the white-eared kob.'' The government is rebuilding roads and schools, and people are returning to their farms. ''This place is hopping,'' Dr. Fay said.
 Dr. Fay said he thought Southern Sudan could attract eco-tourists in the future. He also plans to use the new survey to lobby donor nations to set aside some of their aid to Southern Sudan for managing natural resources. ''I'm going to keep hammering away at these guys that natural resources management is as important for people as it is for keeping elephants alive,'' Dr. Fay said. ''If we can't invest in what might be the largest wildlife migration on earth, then we may as well close up shop and go home.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A WILD LIFE -- Some animals, like white-eared kob antelopes, are thriving in Sudan. (Photo by Paul Elkan and J. Michael Fay/National Geographic)(pg. F1)
DELICATE BALANCE -- A road built by the oil industry in Sudan, and herds of oryx, above, and ostrich.
 NATURE BARRIER -- An elephant herd in the Sudd swamp, which served as protection from poachers. (Photographs by Paul Elkan and J. Michael Fay/National Geographic)(pg. F2) Map of Sudan highlighting Boma National Park. (pg. F2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (92%); CIVIL WAR (91%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); BIOLOGY (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ZOOLOGY (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); GEOGRAPHY (71%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (91%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); ANGOLA (79%); CHAD (79%); AFRICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



236 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Observatory; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 875 words

BYLINE: By Henry Fountain

 BODY:
 After a Major Wildfire, It Seems, Some Forests Are Better Left Alone What to do with a forest after an extensive fire? The answer has often been to harvest the dead trees (in part to try to make up for economic losses caused by the fire) and plant seedlings to re-establish the forest.
 But there has been a growing debate as to whether salvage logging and replanting is the best post-fire approach. A study in southwestern Oregon suggests one reason it might not be: areas that are managed in this way tend to burn more severely the next time the forest catches fire. 
 Jonathan R. Thompson of Oregon State University and colleagues studied an area in the Siskiyou Mountains near the coast. The area burned in 1987, and parts of it were logged and replanted with conifers. In August 2002 the area burned again in a huge blaze known as the Biscuit Fire.
 Using satellite images and forest management data, the researchers created a model to calculate the severity of fire in randomly selected plots. Their findings are published in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
 In general, areas that burned severely in 1987 burned severely again 15 years later. But among these, the researchers found, areas that were left unmanaged had less devastation.
 Salvage logging leaves behind debris like treetops and branches that are a ready source of fuel, as are young conifer plantations, with their uniform growth. In unmanaged areas, the researchers say, regrowth is more diverse, and there are likely to be gaps that reduce fire severity. Froggy Went A-Raftin' From South America, Millions of Years Ago Scientists at Penn State have penciled in the branches of the evolutionary tree of a major group of frogs, the eleutherodactylines, in the process making a surprising discovery: the species dispersed from South America to Central America and the Caribbean over water, not land.
 There are roughly 800 species of eleutherodactylines, small frogs that, unlike many frogs found in temperate climates, lay their eggs on land. Scientists have not known how the species got from South America to the West Indies and Latin America and Mexico, but the prevailing theory was that they traveled across an ancient land mass between North and South America. Then about 70 or 80 million years ago this land mass moved eastward, taking some frogs with it (into what is now the Caribbean) and isolating the frogs to the north.
 But the new research, a genetic analysis of 300 species directed by S. Blair Hedges, a Penn State professor, shows that the Caribbean frogs diverged from a common South American ancestor much later than that -- in a single event 47 million to 29 million years ago. And the eleutherodactylines in Latin America and Mexico diverged from a South American ancestor 42 million to 31 million years ago.
 The findings, reported in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, suggest that in both cases frogs from South America traveled across the water, probably hitching a ride on floating vegetation. Warming in the Arctic? Blame the Snow. The Dirty Snow, That Is. Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases get most of the blame for climate change. And rightly so, as they are by far the most dominant influence globally.
 But don't forget dirt.
 Building on research from earlier in the decade, scientists at the University of California, Irvine, have calculated the warming effect of soot falling on Arctic snow. And the result may come as a surprise: in the Arctic, dirty snow may be responsible for more warming than greenhouse gases.
 ''It turns out that nothing is more efficient at increasing the Earth's temperature than soot in snow,'' said Charles S. Zender, a professor of Earth system science at the university.
 Soot, from coal burning, inefficient cookstoves and forest and agricultural fires, falls in the Arctic, darkening snow. Dark colors absorb more sunlight than lighter colors and radiate more heat in return. 
 Previous studies had looked at this basic effect and found that it contributed to regional warming. ''But they had probably underestimated the impact,'' Dr. Zender said.
 The new work, published in The Journal of Geophysical Research, takes a more detailed look at the effects of soot. Among other things, Dr. Zender said, it accelerates the ''aging'' of snow, as fine crystals turn into larger grains and the snow turns darker. (City dwellers are quite familiar with this phenomenon, as a bright white blanket turns to gray within days.)
 With this and other effects built into their model, the researchers found that over the past 200 years, dirty snow has been responsible for 0.5 to 1.5 degrees Celsius of warming in the Arctic. Over all, the region has warmed 1.6 degrees in that time. 
 Dr. Zender said that several steps could be taken to reduce the impact. One is a matter of timing. If farmers must burn fields, for example, it's better to do it in the late summer and fall, when the impact on the snow cover will be less. 
 More efficient cookstoves for villagers across Asia would also help. By burning cleaner, they would produce less soot. Conversely they would produce more carbon dioxide, ''but in this case emitting CO2 is the lesser of two evils,'' Dr. Zender said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An illustration with a short article in Science Times on Tuesday about the effect that soot in snow has on warming in the Arctic incorrectly included a penguin. Penguins do not live in the Arctic; the northernmost penguins are those on the Galapagos Islands, around the Equator.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 2002 Biscuit Fire caused severe burning in areas that burned 15 years before. (Photo by John Gress/Corbis)
 Like other frogs, this Puerto Rican coqui, Eleutherodactylus portoricensis, is descended from an ancient mariner. (Photo by S. Blair Hedges/Penn State) Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREST FIRES (90%); FIRES (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (87%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); CLIMATOLOGY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (91%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); PUERTO RICO (72%); LATIN AMERICA (68%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



237 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Battling a Nasty Green Invader From the Deep

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: SCHROON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Nosing into a shallow bay on Schroon Lake, Steve LaMere peered over the side of his pontoon boat. He was on an unusual reconnaissance mission, looking for signs of an aggressive aquatic invader, a stringy herb from Eurasia that once adorned American aquariums but has no business here in the Adirondacks -- or anywhere in North America.
 ''I'm a fifth-generation Adirondacker, and I take this stuff personally,'' said Mr. LaMere, a certified lake manager and ecologist who is on the front lines of the fight against invasive species. ''The Adirondack Park is where I've drawn my line in the sand. There's no reason we can't get it under control.''
The plant he was after, Eurasian watermilfoil, is not new. First found in the United States in the 1940s in a pond in Washington, D.C., it has since spread to almost every corner of the country, endangering swimmers, boaters and other aquatic plants. Since the 1970s, its growth -- along with that of many other invasive plants and animals -- has exploded. 
 Like other invasive species, Eurasian watermilfoil is spread from continent to continent by ballast water from ships, and locally by recreational boaters and fishermen who unwittingly introduce plant fragments to clean lakes from infested ones. Until recently, it was an infrequent sight in the Adirondack Park in upstate New York, where many of the more than 3,000 mountain lakes and ponds are relatively inaccessible.
 But as the park's popularity has risen, so has the presence of Eurasian watermilfoil. By far the most widespread of a half-dozen nonnative aquatic plants in the park, Eurasian watermilfoil is now in more than 45 Adirondack lakes, including giants like Lake George and Saranac Lake. It threatens their biodiversity by muscling out native plants and can grow so thick that it becomes entangled in boat propellers and the limbs of swimmers.
 While some places greet invasive species with a defeatist shrug, the Adirondacks is girding for war. In the past few years, the Adirondack Park Invasive Plant Program, which is a partner of the Adirondack chapter of the Nature Conservancy, has trained about 230 residents in the detection of aquatic invaders. 
 ''We tried to recruit anyone who valued the water of the Adirondacks, whether shore owners or paddlers,'' said Hilary Oles, the coordinator of the program.
 Several lakes, including Schroon, have begun educational programs aimed at prevention, stationing volunteers at boat launches. Along with posted signs, the volunteers urge boaters to remove watermilfoil from their boats, as well as zebra mussels -- another nonnative scourge. 
 Hundreds of thousands of dollars are spent each year to remove watermilfoil. In July and August, teams of scuba divers descend to hand-harvest plants, which can grow up to 15 feet tall. Where the watermilfoil is too dense for that approach (scientists have found as many as 300 stems per square meter), divers fasten huge sheets of plastic, called benthic barriers, to the lake bottom to blot out the sun.
 Another method, known as biocontrol, uses nature -- in the form of insects and fish -- to fight nature. At Augur Lake, where Mr. LaMere was hired to combat its Eurasian watermilfoil infestation, hundreds of sterile grass carp were released several years ago to eat the plants. For now, the watermilfoil, which had cloaked 10 percent of the lake, is still there, but is less of a nuisance.
 ''We realized that benthic barriers weren't realistic,'' Mr. LaMere said. ''Grass carp love to eat aquatic vegetation. The only Catch-22 is they prefer our succulent native vegetation over fibrous exotics. So you run the risk of denuding the bottom of the lake.''
 There are also chemical weapons, but so far the Adirondack Park Agency, which regulates all land use in the six-million-acre park, has not permitted their use against watermilfoil.
 The assault on Eurasian watermilfoil, as well as other invasive aquatic plants like curly leaf pondweed and purple loosestrife, comes as New York State is devoting new resources to the problem. In 2005, an Invasive Species Task Force appointed by former Gov. George E. Pataki issued a 146-page report, with a dozen recommendations and a call for the state to budget from $5 million to $10 million annually to address the issue.
 The task force was led by two state agencies, the Department of Environmental Conservation and the Department of Agriculture and Markets. It also included representatives from 14 agencies and organizations, including the state's Department of Transportation, Cornell University, the Nature Conservancy and the New York State Nursery and Landscape Association.
 With its many airports, shipping ports and canals, New York has long been a gateway for invasive species. The report noted that while about a third of the state's plants are not native, only a portion of those -- perhaps 10 to 15 percent -- are considered invasive, in that they are harmful to the economy, the environment or human health.
 To illustrate how quickly invasive species spread, the report said that since the task force convened in 2004, at least six new ones have arrived in the state. They include the European crane fly and Brazilian elodea, a popular aquarium plant discovered last year.
 Steve Sanford, chief of the Department of Environmental Conservation's Bureau of Habitat, said that $5 million was allocated in the current budget to prevent and manage invasive species. Some of that money will help carry out one of the task force's main recommendations, the creation of eight regional partnerships with nonprofit groups around the state. 
 One is the Adirondack Park Invasive Plant Program, which Mr. Sanford called a model for thwarting nuisance species in the park. ''From an ecological perspective, the Adirondacks are much less invaded than the rest of the state,'' Mr. Sanford said. ''You haven't had a whole lot of agriculture or manipulation of the land.'' 
 The task force also gave a boost to a fledgling grant program in which the Department of Environmental Conservation shares the costs of eradicating invasive plants and animals with nonprofit groups and local governments. Last year, the Town of Schroon was awarded $26,000 to tackle Eurasian watermilfoil and curly-leaf pondweed over three years.
 But the state is looking to the federal government for a more aggressive response to invasive species, Mr. Sanford said, ''something comparable to the Clean Water Act.''
 For now, the state funds are allowing lake managers to broaden the scope of their work. In Lake George, where the watermilfoil was discovered in 1985, scientists have identified 157 infested sites. All but 30 of those are largely free of the plant, the result of years of relentless hand-harvesting and the use of barriers.
 Of those 30 sites, however, 17 have severe infestations, and because of the limited financing until now, the Lake George Park Commission, which oversees management of invasive species in the lake, has been able to address only a small fraction of them.
 Michael P. White, the commission's executive director, said the additional state money would mean more divers this summer. ''We have two locations we have been working with the benthic mats where we'll return, and we'll add four more locations,'' he said. ''The state funding will allow us to expand our operations more on a scale that's appropriate to the challenge.'' 
 While some lakes in New York are choked with Eurasian watermilfoil, the early efforts on Lake George paid off. Of 1,800 acres of lake bottom where watermilfoil could conceivably take root (generally the shallower fringes), only about 10 to 12 acres have dense growth. 
 ''Lake George has one of the most incredible assemblages of native plants, with more than 50 species of aquatic plants,'' Mr. White said. ''It's a genuine environmental catastrophe to see these plant communities being ravaged.''
 Once it establishes itself, Eurasian watermilfoil, which spreads when fragments of the plant break off and take root, is almost impossible to wipe out. ''It becomes a maintenance effort,'' said Lawrence Eichler, a research scientist with the Darrin Fresh Water Institute in Bolton Landing. on Lake George. ''It really is underwater gardening.''
 Some Adirondackers, like Helen D. Wildman, president of the Paradox Lake Association, harbor no illusions that pristine lakes will stay that way. ''People say with great confidence that Paradox Lake will never have any milfoil,'' she said. ''But it will if we let our guard down.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A sign at Schroon Lake Marina warns boaters to look for Eurasian watermilfoil and help prevent its spread. At left, Steve LaMere holds strands of the weed. (Photographs by Nancie Battaglia for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Steve LaMere scans Schroon Lake in the Adirondacks, looking for Eurasian watermilfoil. Helen D. Wildman is in the driver's seat. Organizations in the region are working to control invasive aquatic species. (Photo by Nancie Battaglia for The New York Times)(pg. B6) Chart/Maps: ''An Aquatic Pest's Spread'' The spread of Eurasian watermilfoil in New York's lakes coincides with increased boating activity in the 1970s. The invasive plant is often transferred to clean lakes through recreational boaters and fishermen carrying fragments of the weed from infested lakes. Maps of New York highlight where watermilfoil was discovered for the following time periods: 1949 to 1970 1971 to 1980 1981 to 1990 1990 to 2001 (Source by Darrin Fresh Water Institute)(pg. B6) Map of Adirondack Park, New York, highlighting Schroon Lake: Eurasian watermilfoil has infested about 45 lakes in the park. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); LAKES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); BIODIVERSITY (75%); WATER SPORTS (73%); SCUBA DIVING (73%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (73%); ANIMALS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



238 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: Debating an Author's Legacy

 BODY:
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''Fateful Voice of a Generation Still Drowns Out Real Science'' (Findings, June 5): John Tierney joins an odd, dissonant chorus of cavilers who have chosen to disparage if not completely dismiss the legacy of Rachel Carson. Although we live in a time of unprecedented climate change, ecological devastation and species extinction, Tierney and his ilk critique Carson for supposed miscalculations regarding DDT. 
In majestic and captivating prose, Carson notified the readers of ''Silent Spring'' that humans do not stand apart from the land, air and water. This clarion call to eco-awareness sounded 45 years ago has gone largely unheeded and thus we are today witness to precipitous environmental degradation. Those like Tierney who choose to minimize Carson's prophetic insight demonstrate a stunning capacity for crass indifference and ignorance. Joe Martin Seattle To the Editor:
 John Tierney lauds agricultural expert I. L. Baldwin for his analysis of the ''costs and benefits'' of pesticide use in a 1962 review of ''Silent Spring,'' while condemning Carson's use of ''rhetoric.'' Yet Tierney forgets that cost-benefit analysis only gained currency in the United States when it became politically necessary to hold technical experts accountable for their decisions during the economic depression of the 1930s.
 Similarly, when William Ruckelshaus introduced formal risk assessment at the E.P.A. in 1983, he was responding to the need for better communication with a public whose concerns had been raised in part by Carson's book. ''Silent Spring'' should be seen as a watershed event in the relationship between scientists, policy makers and the public -- one that has made debates over environmental policies more, not less, rational. Deborah Coen New York 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Viktor Koen) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); PESTICIDES (76%); LAND DEGRADATION (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (66%)

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007



239 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: City Students Lead Big Rise On Math Tests

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA; Ford Fessenden and David Herszenhorn contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Math scores for students across New York State improved significantly in every grade tested this year, powered by sizable gains in New York City, according to results of the annual statewide math exam released by education officials yesterday. 
 The city's increases were larger than those in any of the other big-city school districts except Syracuse and showed the city nearing the statewide performance average. In every grade tested -- third through eighth -- New York City had jumps, in most cases in the double digits, in the proportion of students performing at grade level or above.
The improvement in the city's students' math performance, which brought 65.1 percent of students to grade level or above, now makes it more comparable to some racially and economically mixed suburban school districts, like Peekskill in Westchester County or the South Country Central School District in mid-Suffolk County, than to other urban centers like Buffalo, where just 35.9 percent of students met the standards. Syracuse, despite its improvement this year, has just 39.4 percent of students at grade level or above. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has made education a priority and won mayoral control of the school system, seized on the numbers as evidence of success. ''I'm happy, thrilled -- ecstatic, I think, is a better word,'' Mr. Bloomberg said during a news conference at City Hall, standing next to a monitor showing bar and line graphs of the results. ''The hard work going on in our schools is really paying off.'' 
 This was the second year in which New York State used new tests and new math standards devised to bring more rigor to the system, and some of the statewide gains could be attributed to teachers and students becoming more accustomed to the exams and the curriculum. When the new test was first used last year, scores across the state generally fell from the previous year.
 This year, across the state, 72.7 percent of students in Grades 3 through 8 showed they were proficient at grade level or above in math, an increase from 65.8 percent the year before. But the gains were not universal.
 In Yonkers, student performance dropped slightly. In New York City, improvement was widespread, but hundreds of schools showed no improvement. 
 The state's results mirrored national trends, which, according to the National Assessment of Educational Progress, show steady improvement in recent years in fourth-grade math, but much more modest gains in the eighth grade. Because there are no national standardized tests, it is also difficult to compare students from one state to another. 
 A study by the federal government last week showed that two years ago, before the tests were changed, New York State's fourth-grade math test was easier than most others, ranking below 28 of 32 other states in difficulty in that grade. The state's test in eighth-grade math was ranked below 12 other states'. 
 This year New York City students' gains outpaced those statewide at every level. In seventh grade, for example, 55.5 percent of New York City students were at grade level or better, an increase of more than 11 percentage points from the year before. The state recorded 66.4 percent of seventh graders at grade level or above, only a 4.9 point jump. 
 The state education commissioner, Richard P. Mills, said at a news conference in Albany that the city, like other districts, had focused heavily on teacher training and paid careful attention to the shortcomings revealed by past test scores. Mr. Mills said teachers were becoming more adept at working toward the new standards. 
 ''It is quite evident to me that teachers are teaching the curriculum," he said, and added that teachers were able to determine where students had trouble.
 While Mr. Mills singled out New York City for its climb in scores, he stopped short of crediting mayoral control of the schools for it. The Regents chancellor, Robert M. Bennett, who also spoke at the news conference, said that New York City is ''quite obviously on the right track.'' 
 Mr. Mills tempered his praise yesterday with the acknowledgment that this year again, the performance of eighth-grade students was persistently low throughout the state. In New York City, only 45.6 percent of eighth graders were proficient in math.
 ''We wanted to get much higher than that, but this clearly shows a step in the right direction,'' Mr. Mills said. ''There is considerable work ahead.''
 Over the years, the tests have shown that there is a stubborn drop-off as students get older. For example, 85 percent of third-grade students statewide met the standards, but that number fell to 58 percent in the eighth grade. New York City has been trying to improve its students' math performance for many years, beginning in 2000, when the schools chancellor then, Harold O. Levy, made it a primary focus. 
 In explaining the scores yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg put heavy emphasis on teachers and on a contract agreement that had allowed the city to extend the school year by an extra two days and also add 150 minutes to the school week for struggling students.
 ''Each year, that will build on what was done before, because in the past children went from one grade to another and they kept falling further and further behind,'' the mayor said. ''If they have the skills to go into the next year and understand what the wonderful teacher at the front of the room is saying, then they are not going to fall behind or at least they won't fall behind as fast or as far.''
 Others said that the city had been so far behind that it had nowhere to go but up. ''It all depends on whether you take a half-full or half-empty approach -- if your scores are lower than others, then of course you have so much room for improvement,'' said Alfred S. Posamentier, the dean of the education school at City College. ''There is constant pressure, at the cost obviously of the arts and social studies and other subjects.''
 Perhaps the most impressive achievement for New York City was that students improved as they moved from grade to grade, mostly defying the historic trend of proficiency levels dropping consistently each year as students aged.
 For instance, 55.5 percent of the city's seventh graders scored proficiently this year, up from 52.7 percent when they were sixth graders last year. New York State only recently began testing students in Grades 3 through 8 rather than in just fourth and eighth grade.
 ''There is recognition now that youngsters have to grow year by year, whereas in the past we just had two snapshots,'' Mr. Mills said in an interview. ''There is no place to hide.''
 Some of the most significant gains in New York City and elsewhere came in middle-school grades. 
 For instance, nearly 64 percent of the city's sixth-grade students met the state standards, up from 53 percent last year. Mr. Mills also said there were impressive gains from high-poverty, traditionally low-performing schools. Mr. Mills also said the gap between the performance of black and Hispanic students compared with whites was narrowing.
 That was true also in New York City, where, the mayor said, the largest gains on this year's test were achieved by black and Hispanic students, who posted improvements of about 9 percentage points.
 The city's school chancellor, Joel I. Klein, was not in the city to join the festivities. Instead, he was in Washington, where he attended a news conference with Mayor Adrian M. Fenty for the announcement of the appointment of Michelle Rhee, who ran a New York City education group that trained teachers, as the new schools chancellor. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Improvement in Math'' Math achievement in grades 3 to 8 improved this year in every grade and among all ethnic and racial groups in New York State and New York City. Below, the percentage of students performing at or above grade level in math. Graphs track math achievement in grades 3 to 8 and among all ethnic and racial groups in New York State and New York City. (Source by New York State Education Department)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); SUBURBS (54%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



240 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 889 words

 BODY:
 GIFTS FOR FAITH-BASED GROUPS -- Over the past 20 years Congress has given almost 900 grants to faith-based groups through the use of provisions called earmarks, including two decommissioned Coast Guard cutters that were given to a mission group in California. But rather than use the vessels to provide medical care, as Congress had directed, the group sold them both. [Page A1.] YIELDS RISE, DRIVING SHARES DOWN -- The cost of borrowing headed higher as yields on the 10-year Treasury note, a key benchmark, hit a five-year high, and that drove the stock market down sharply. [C1.] NEW SERVINGS AT CONAGRA -- ConAgra Foods was built from dozens of acquisitions with brands that struggled to keep up with their competitors. 
But a new chief executive, Gary M. Rodkin, is trying to revive its brands with new products like Healthy Choice dinners that do not become mushy when microwaved, Orville Redenbacher popcorn that is low in sodium but still has a salty taste, and Chef Boyardee microwave-ready macaroni and cheese. [C1.] WOOING ASIAN GAMBLERS -- Casino operators in Las Vegas have become much more aggressive in wooing Asians both domestically and abroad, aiming not just at the newly wealthy from China, who in recent years have emerged as Las Vegas's best customers, but also Asian-Americans and recent immigrants from the Pacific Rim. [C1.] SIGNS OF A BACKLASH -- Robert E. Rubin, a Treasury secretary in President Bill Clinton's administration, made the case for private equity and hedge fund managers' paying more in taxes, a sign that the backlash against the tremendous wealth being created by managers of hedge funds may be gaining strength. [C3.] CHANGES IN JOURNAL'S NEWSROOM -- The Wall Street Journal, already roiled by a proposed takeover by Rupert Murdoch, will announce a major newsroom shake-up, including the reassignment and replacement of several top editors, officials there say. [C1.] A PHONE WITHOUT A KEYBOARD -- If there is a billion-dollar gamble underlying Apple's iPhone, it lies in what the cellphone does not have: a mechanical keyboard. The absence of a keyboard allows for a bigger screen, but the downside is that typing is done by pecking on the screen with thumbs or fingers. [C1.] FUTURE OF JAGUAR AND LAND ROVER -- Ford said that it was working with financial advisers to sort out the future of Jaguar and Land Rover, the two British brands that have been rumored to be up for sale for more than a year. [C3.] PROFIT GROWTH AT LEHMAN -- Lehman Brothers reported that its profit in the second quarter rose 27 percent, a record for the investment bank and potentially auguring a good week for Wall Street earning reports. [C4.] ENERGY BILL DEBATED IN SENATE -- The Senate began debate on a sprawling bill to reduce oil consumption, with top Democrats circulating a proposal to provide $10 billion in loans for plants that make diesel fuel from coal. [A16.] A DANONE DISPUTE IN CHINA -- A dispute between Groupe Danone, the French multinational company, and a brash Chinese executive has escalated into a battle for control of China's largest beverage maker. [C8.] INFLATION, BUT NO OVERHEATING -- Inflation in China reached a 27-month high of 3.4 percent in May, but the increases in consumer prices were heavily concentrated in food while figures for growth in the money supply and in loans suggested that the broader economy was not yet overheating. [C8.] GREENER PLANES, FROM EUROPE -- The European Union is planning a 1.6 billion-euro public-private partnership to help its aviation industry develop a generation of greener and quieter aircraft. [C8.] VOTE CRITICAL OF EXECUTIVE PAY -- Yahoo said that about a third of its shareholders had voted against the re-election of one or more company directors. The vote against some directors had been recommended by three Wall Street advisory firms that had criticized the compensation committee for awarding bonus and retention pay in the form of 6.8 million stock options to Terry S. Semel, Yahoo's chief executive, in a year when the company's shares dropped nearly 35 percent. [C3.] SAVING WEB SEARCH HISTORIES -- Google announced that it would cut back on how long it keeps the Web search histories of users, to 18 months from 24. [C3.] ART IMITATING ADVERTISING -- A coming television series about Madison Avenue, set in the days when sponsors' products were regularly woven into the plots of shows, is -- yes -- getting a sponsor whose product will be regularly woven into the plot of each episode. The series, ''Mad Men,'' will run on AMC, and be sponsored by the Jack Daniel's brand of Tennessee whiskey sold by the Brown-Forman Corporation. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C5.] MOVIE TRAILERS FOR ADULTS -- Hollywood is retrofitting its rating system to give studios a chance to show racier trailers for movies online. [E1.] ONLINE Business Briefing Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business. RESTITUTION IN CA FRAUD -- Stephen Richards, former sales chief of the software maker CA, agrees to pay more than $29 million in restitution for an accounting fraud. (DOW JONES/AP) BLOCKBUSTER RENTAL PLAN -- Blockbuster is offering a lower-priced plan for online movie rentals as it competes with Netflix. It said it would cut prices $1 a month for customers who order movies online only. (AP)

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph shows Yahoo shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (87%); MILITARY VESSELS (77%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); MISC FOOD MFG (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (69%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); CASINOS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (63%); SMARTPHONES (61%)

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (71%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (62%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); APPLE INC (52%)

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (71%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (71%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (71%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (71%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (71%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (71%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (62%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (52%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (52%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%)

PERSON: GARY M RODKIN (68%); BILL CLINTON (54%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



241 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: A Dose of Art and Entertainment Revives a Suburb

BYLINE: By EUGENE L. MEYER

DATELINE: SILVER SPRING, Md., June 12 

 BODY:
Washington's first suburban shopping district had its heyday here in the 1950s, but as people moved farther out and new malls sprouted to serve them, retailers and then offices left in droves, sending Silver Spring into a decades-long decline. 
 But now this once-ailing suburb, which abuts the District of Columbia and is linked to downtown Washington by subway, is enjoying a renaissance, a result of public involvement and private investment that is turning it into an arts and entertainment center, anchored by the Discovery Channel and the American Film Institute and including new offices, hotels, theaters, restaurants and housing.
As recently as the mid-1990s, such a rebirth would have seemed a pipe dream. The streets were often deserted; the vacancy rate stood at 39 percent for offices and about 25 percent for stores, and there seemed little reason for hope. 
 Douglas M. Duncan, then the Montgomery County executive and now vice president for administrative affairs at the University of Maryland in College Park, recently recalled that when he pledged to revitalize the area, ''the attitude from the public was why bother, no one will ever come to Silver Spring.'' 
 Gary Stith, the county's Silver Spring coordinator, said that back then the city offered nothing to do when the workday ended and people left their offices. ''We didn't have the amenities,'' Mr. Stith said. ''There was no reason to stay.'' 
 In addition, he said, there was an image problem, stoked by the fear that crime would creep in from Washington. ''We used to say Silver Spring is safer than it looked,'' he said. (Silver Spring still has its somewhat shabby side, which includes auto body shops, greasy spoons, a tattoo parlor and used book and record stores, but they are now considered part of its charm.) 
 Mr. Duncan feared that if nothing was done, the problem would spread to other areas. So, undaunted by a series of ambitious but failed plans that included a proposal by the Mall of America's Canadian developers to build a huge mall in Silver Spring, the county acquired much of the downtown core and turned the project over to a private joint venture of the Foulger-Pratt and Peterson Companies, both major developers in the Washington area. 
 With $1.2 billion in public and private investment over the last six years, including $187 million from the county, much has been done. ''I can't think of any downside to this project,''said Bryant F. Foulger, a principal of Foulger-Pratt.
 In April 2003, the American Film Institute, which has its main office in Los Angeles, moved from the Kennedy Center in Washington into a renovated 1938 movie theater, adding two more screens and bringing celebrities like Clint Eastwood for the grand opening and Martin Scorsese, Jane Fonda, Danny Glover and even Al Gore to town for presentations. The institute occupies 7,000 square feet of office space and has 25 full-time and 40 part-time year-round employees. 
 About the same time, the Discovery Channel shifted its headquarters and 1,800 employees from the more fashionable suburb of Bethesda, Md., five miles west, into an architecturally striking new building close to Silver Spring's Metro subway station. The film institute and Discovery are now co-sponsors of SilverDocs, an annual documentary festival held each June; it started Tuesday. 
 The Birchmere, a music hall in Alexandria, Va., is planning to open a second location in a former J. C. Penney store across from the film institute in 2010. 
 An Arts Alley, where vendors set up tables on weekends, has emerged at Silver Spring's southern end. 
 Mr. Duncan, whose third term as county executive ended late last year, tried to build enthusiasm for his vision by carefully staging public events. In 1997, he revived the annual Thanksgiving parade. Last year, an estimated 10,000 people watched the parade.
 To make way for Discovery, the Tastee Diner, built in 1936, was moved a few blocks; the move -- the diner already had a chassis and was lifted onto wheels and driven the distance -- was made in the daytime, and attracted a large crowd. Hundreds attended the dedication of a new Fresh Fields (now Whole Foods Market) supermarket. 
 In the central redevelopment area, some 20,000 people attended the Silver Spring Jazz Festival last September. They crowded onto a ''town green'' of artificial grass and watched from every opening of an adjoining seven-level garage. The green, which has become a prime gathering place, is to be home to a 42,000-square-foot three-story civic building and ice rink/plaza. 
 The hub of activity is a single block of Ellsworth Drive that incorporates the facade of an original 1930s shopping center, one of the nation's first with off-street parking, and a building that was the region's first suburban Hecht's department store. The former Hecht's was converted into City Place Mall before the current renaissance and has languished with mostly discount stores. That is changing, slowly. 
 Ellsworth is often closed to vehicular traffic, especially on weekends, creating the feeling of a pedestrian mall. Lunchtime crowds eat al fresco along the sidewalk or at tables near a fountain, which has become a popular gathering spot. 
 The rebirth has brought many more culinary choices, with both chain and independently owned restaurants, like Ceviche, a Cuban eatery, and Mandalay, which serves Burmese food. 
 ''Where there were 5 restaurants when we moved here in 2004, there are now 50,'' said David Levy, Discovery's executive vice president for communications. Discovery intentionally did not include a cafeteria in its building, Mr. Levy said, to encourage employees to patronize local establishments. 
 Residential neighborhoods adjoin the downtown, but no new housing had risen for 15 years until EYA (formerly Eakin/Youngentob Associates), a developer of urban housing, erected 57 town homes six years ago. The homes, close to the Metro, started at $260,000 and now sell for $650,000 to $700,000. Another 325 condos in three developments, with one-bedroom units priced from the high $200,000's, have followed; 3,500 additional units are planned. 
 Several fashionable new condominiums and rental apartments, with a total of 866 units, have replaced a strip of car dealerships several blocks away, and 775 more housing units are under construction. 
 Work is scheduled to begin in September on a new $70 million covered transit center for the Metro rail system, a commuter railroad line, 145 regional buses, and a Greyhound bus station, replacing the present bus turnaround next to the subway stop. Serving 50,000 daily passengers, the transit center is scheduled for 2009 completion.
 Nearby, Foulger-Pratt is awaiting final approval on a 200-room hotel, two residential towers with 410 units, and about 20,000 square feet of retail space. 
 Delegations from as far away as China now come to see the Silver Spring revitalization. At the spring conference of the Urban Land Institute this year in Chicago, a panel was devoted to Silver Spring's success story. Office space has become so scarce that the vacancy rate is down to 3 percent of Silver Spring's rentable commercial inventory of 6.5 million square feet, Mr. Stith said. 
 As Silver Spring's renaissance has taken hold, the unincorporated community has struggled with issues of preservation. A landmark 1927 armory and a classic Little Tavern hamburger shack were razed, but a 1914 building used until last year as a fire station is to become a firefighting-themed brewpub. The facade of an old Canada Dry bottling plant is being incorporated into a new condominium building. 
 ''The revitalized area has attracted incredible amounts of publicity, people and consumer dollars,'' said Jerry A. McCoy, president of the Silver Spring Historical Society. ''My fear is as the development spreads, all one- and two-story historic structures will be taken out. We're just biting our nails.''
 Jackie Greenbaum, who lives in a new condo and owns Jackie's, an upscale restaurant that was formerly an auto parts store, is less fearful. ''I see Silver Spring as a little like the East Village'' in Manhattan, she said. ''I think there's a very good chance it will stay interesting and a little edgy. At least that's my hope.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sara Nathan, right, and her son Seth, 3, cool off in a fountain in a newly redeveloped section of downtown Silver Spring. Md., (Photo by Steve Ruark for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (90%); FILM (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); RETAILERS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); RESTAURANTS (75%); COUNTIES (73%); MUSIC STORES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (70%); TATTOO PARLORS (62%)

COMPANY: PETERSON COS LC (62%); DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%)

TICKER: DISCA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (62%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (62%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



242 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Europe Plans A Quieter And Cleaner Passenger Jet

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, June 12 

 BODY:
Driven by concerns that it is falling behind on airplane development, the European Union is planning a 1.6 billion-euro public-private partnership to help its aviation industry develop a generation of greener and quieter aircraft. 
 European officials say the project, known as Clean Sky and costing the equivalent of $2.1 billion, will bring vast economic benefits and offset the impact of huge growth in air travel by cutting jet carbon emissions by 20 percent to 40 percent in the coming decades and reducing jet noise.
 The use of 800 million euros in European Union money, however, may revive tensions with Washington, which, on the behalf of Boeing, has fought a long-running battle at the World Trade Organization over charges of illegal public support to the aircraft maker Airbus.
 A document, likely to be approved Wednesday by the European Commission, states that the European Union needs to provide public financing if it is not to fall behind other markets.
 ''Not launching Clean Sky soon will put the European industry in a position of competitive disadvantage, with negative repercussions not only for the industry itself but also for the E.U. as a whole,'' it says.
 The paper emphasizes that the United States has a similar effort, the National Aeronautics Research and Development Policy, and that it is likely to continue unabated.
 ''At the same time,'' the paper said, ''other competitors have emerged in recent years, such as Brazil, Russia, China and India.''
 Under the European Union plan, the industry would contribute 800 million euros for Clean Sky from 2008 to 2014. Most of the leading European aviation companies have agreed to contribute to the project, including Airbus, Rolls-Royce, Saab, Thales, Dassault and Eurocopter, along with universities and research institutes.
 The public contribution will require approval from European Union member states. The project has support from countries like Britain, which is usually skeptical about big European Union projects, like the troubled satellite navigation program Galileo.
 The money will go to six main projects, including development of a greener engine, creation of a ''smart'' fixed wing that will change position during flight to make it more energy efficient, and use of lighter materials as substitutes for metal.
 The European Union says ''market failures'' make public money essential. It argues that aeronautics programs are a high risk commercially and technically because they deliver returns long after the original investment.
 ''The United States are going through with the same thing,'' said Marco Brusati, project officer at the European Commission, ''and we have to keep up the pace, but the areas we have focused on most are the development of environmental technologies.'' 
 Though Airbus will stand to gain around 12 percent of the budget, most of the money will be spent on the development of technologies, not of specific models, Mr. Brusati said.
 ''This will contribute to a new generation of aircraft which will have a more environmentally friendly approach,'' he added.
 According to projections by the European Commission, the new technology could cut airline carbon by 20 to 40 percent, leading to a reduction of two billion to three billion tons from 2015 to 2050. Nitrogen oxide emissions could be cut by 40 to 60 percent and ''perceived aircraft noise'' could be halved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EURO (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); APPROVALS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (73%); EMISSIONS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (93%); THALES SA (58%); BOEING CO (58%); EUROCOPTER SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

TICKER: HO (PAR) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



243 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1637 words

HEADLINE: Suffolk's Leader Wins a Following On Immigration

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
A recent day in May began in crisis mode for Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, over an allegation that a police crackdown on unlicensed drivers amounted to the ethnic profiling of illegal immigrants.
 Soon, he was preparing a response to accusations by 30 state legislators, fellow Democrats all, that his policies in this Long Island county of 1.4 million ''instigate divisiveness, hatred and intolerant behavior toward immigrants.''
By 2 p.m., Mr. Levy seemed relieved to turn from ''the whole illegal immigration thing,'' as he calls it, to a topic confined to his 631 area code: a health fair for minority residents. Then an adviser asked whether the fair might be moved from a county building. 
 ''A lot of these people are illegal,'' the adviser explained, ''and they are afraid to come.'' 
 If politicians can be said to have relationships with issues, Mr. Levy's relationship with illegal immigration seems resentful yet clinging. 
 He complains that immigration detracts from his local accomplishments. 
 Yet he injects himself into the issue often and aggressively enough to have become almost as familiar to the national audiences of action-figure conservative commentators like Bill O'Reilly and Lou Dobbs as he is to viewers of News 12 Long Island. 
 Newsday calls him arguably the most formidable elected official in Long Island history. Immigrants advocates frequently accuse him of bigotry; one spokesman for local day laborers, the Rev. Allan Ramirez, has accused him of ''ethnic cleansing.''
 Local politicians like Mr. Levy -- whose official portfolio is heavy with issues like taxes and housing, beach erosion and employee contracts -- have little sway over the federal matters of border control and immigration policy. But it is a theme that has profound resonance in the cul-de-sacs and new developments that define much of his suburban turf, and he has marshaled what tools he has to deal with its ramifications.
 He has lent his police officers to town building inspectors for raids that have shuttered several dozen overcrowded rooming houses. His Consumer Affairs Department has increased arrests of unlicensed contractors -- many of whom employ illegal immigrants -- to about 300 a year from 70. 
 Last year, officers at the Suffolk County Jail ran immigration checks on 2,287 inmates, compared with 40 in 2004 (deportation proceedings were started against 376). 
 In some ways, Mr. Levy has emerged as a leader of a new breed of Democrats, who represent suburban areas that once were dominated by Republicans and remain socially conservative, particularly on questions of who lives next door. 
 For example, suburban Democrats in Illinois were crucial in rejecting a 2005 bill that would have allowed illegal immigrants to apply for driver's licenses. And in close state and federal races in North Carolina, Ohio and Tennessee last year, many Democratic candidates sounded tougher than the Republicans on border security. 
 Mr. Levy, a 47-year-old career politician finishing his first term running this county -- which has 176,000 foreign-born residents, 50,000 of whom officials estimate are here illegally -- sometimes professes frustration that the issue has largely come to define him. But it has also given him a national profile, an 80 percent local approval rating and the closest thing to a guaranteed re-election: endorsements from both the Democratic and the Republican Parties.
 As the latest efforts to revamp immigration laws in Congress have disintegrated in a debate displaying a dozen shades of gray, Mr. Levy has held to a black-and-white assertion: Illegal immigration is illegal, and should be punished. 
 When asked about moving the county health fair, for example, he responded: ''If they are committing a crime, they have something to worry about. Otherwise, they have nothing to worry about.'' 
 At his most strident, Mr. Levy warns that the country's ''open borders'' are an invitation to ''Fort Dix terrorists,'' a reference to the six foreign-born men, three of them with expired visas, who were charged in May with plotting to attack an Army base in New Jersey. 
 At his most reflective, he says the whole matter is a question of suburban values. 
 ''People who play by the rules work hard to achieve the suburban dream of the white picket fence,'' Mr. Levy said. ''Whether you are black or white or Hispanic, if you live in the suburbs, you do not want to live across the street from a house where 60 men live. You do not want trucks riding up and down the block at 5 a.m., picking up workers.'' 
 Vivian Viloria-Fisher, a Suffolk County legislator who was born in the Dominican Republic, is a Democrat who generally supports Mr. Levy but parts ways with him on his signature issue. 
 ''The 'rules' Steve talks about are very nice, but they ignore the global economic rules that force people to come here to earn a living,'' she said. ''The 'white picket fence' -- this is also part of a mythologized reality. As much as anything, that fence was put there to keep people out.'' 
 From Gov. Eliot Spitzer on down, officeholders in Mr. Levy's own party distance themselves from his aggressive approach. ''Steve and I agree on a lot of things,'' Mr. Spitzer said in a brief interview, ''but illegal immigration isn't one of them.''
 In accepting the Democratic Party's nomination in May, Mr. Levy made no reference to illegal immigration. 
 But a few days later at the Suffolk Republican convention, he was wildly cheered as he promised to do his part to attack ''an illegal underground economy,'' to work hard for those who ''play by the rules,'' and to keep at it no matter how much he was criticized by ''the politically correct crowd.'' 
 ''I don't want to hurt him with his own party, but I don't know if he even sees himself as a Democrat,'' said United States Representative Peter King, a Long Island Republican whose views on immigration mirror Mr. Levy's. ''He's a populist. I think people see him doing the right things on the immigration issue, enforcing the law.''
 His seeming sure-footedness in straddling different worlds hark back to a life of fusion thinking, beginning perhaps by growing up with a Jewish father and Roman Catholic mother. Mr. Levy says he is a practicing Catholic. 
 After the family moved from Queens to Holbrook in Suffolk, their appliance store in Brooklyn was looted and destroyed during the 1977 blackout. Mr. Levy said that his father was ''devastated, never really got over it,'' and that his parents worked three jobs each just to get by.
 ''I know what it means to struggle, believe me,'' he said. ''I think it has helped me to understand people of all races, and to understand the burdens placed on our taxpayers.'' 
 Beginning a century ago, Suffolk County's beet and potato farms were a magnet for migrant workers from Mexico and Central America. Starting in the mid-1990s, the construction boom provided year-round work for immigrants, many of them illegal. 
 The county's Hispanic population has grown to 12.6 percent, according to the latest Census Bureau estimates, from 7.6 percent in 1990 -- showing faster growth than the statewide population, but about the same as in neighboring Nassau County, where the issue has produced less political heat.
 Mr. Levy dates his passion on the matter to his first campaign, for the County Legislature in 1985, when he won as a Democrat in a heavily Republican district by knocking on every door in its borders. He said that he often heard complaints about illegal immigrants in the hamlet of Farmingville, an early flashpoint in the fight over day laborers.
 In the County Legislature, Mr. Levy frequently cast the lone ''no'' vote on spending bills -- which won him praise from tax watchdogs and resentment from fellow legislators, who branded him a grandstander. He supported an unsuccessful English-only bill that would have forbidden the printing or speaking of any other language by county agencies or employees. 
 Elected to the State Assembly in 2000, Mr. Levy introduced more bills in his first three months, 65, than any other freshman in history. 
 There were measures to cut taxes and to depoliticize election redistricting. One would have required the option of speaking to a human on all state phone-answering systems. None became law. 
 Now, he says, he has no plans to run for higher office. He seems to enjoy being a kind of 800-pound tuna in his own small pond. 
 Some political professionals attribute his lofty poll numbers to his tough stand on illegal immigration. Others, like June O'Neill, chairwoman of the state Democratic Party, say Mr. Levy's approach to illegal immigration is ''incidental to his broader vision of trying to enforce the law and help the taxpayer.''
 Take the crackdown on unlicensed drivers, which has led to 123 arrests since January. The police say they have not kept track of how many were illegal immigrants. But in the face of ethnic profiling accusations, Mr. Levy expanded the sting from the Farmingville area to enforce it countywide. 
 ''Nobody is profiling anyone,'' he said. ''But if some guy gets pulled over for a traffic stop and let go with a ticket, and he turns out to be one of these Fort Dix terrorists, well, that would be just terrible, wouldn't it?'' Steve Levy Born: Aug. 25, 1959, in Glendale, Queens. Education: Graduate of Sachem High School in Holbrook, N.Y. (1977); State University of New York, Stony Brook (1981, magna cum laude); St. John's University School of Law (1984). Career: Lawyer; Suffolk County legislator (1985-2000); New York State assemblyman (2001-2003); Suffolk County executive (2004-present). Family: Lives in Bayport with his wife (since 1995), Colleen West Levy, and stepchildren, Shannon, 23, and Erin, 21. Hobbies: Weightlifting; following local professional sports. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, has been endorsed by both political parties for re-election. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); RACIAL PROFILING (90%); DRIVERS LICENSES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (75%); SUBURBS (74%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); DEPORTATION (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (63%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (63%); EROSION (50%)

PERSON: BILL O'REILLY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



244 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Bond Yields Soar, Driving Shares Down

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from London.

 BODY:
The cost of borrowing headed higher yesterday and drove the stock market down sharply. 
 Yields on the 10-year Treasury note -- a key benchmark that influences nearly all long-term interest rates, including home mortgages -- hit a five-year high, climbing to 5.248 percent yesterday, up from 5.154 percent late Monday as investors sold off notes and bonds.
Treasury yields, which have been rising steadily since the end of April and have started to weigh on the stock market, quashed an early afternoon stock rally. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a broad gauge of the market, closed down 1.07 percent, or 16.12 points, to 1,493 points; and the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 1 percent, or 129.95, to 13,295.01 points. [Page C10.] 
 Bond prices, which move in the opposite direction from yields, started falling yesterday after the top official at the Bank of England signaled in a speech late Monday that policy makers in London might continue to raise interest rates.
 The sell-off intensified after Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, said in a speech that he thought that borrowing costs would climb, particularly for developing countries.
 But investors' expectations of inflation, which traditionally drive bond yields higher, do not appear to be the prime reason for the move. Though inflation continues to run above the upper limit of the Federal Reserve's comfort level of about 2 percent, there has been little to suggest it is picking up pace. 
 ''This is not about inflation in my view,'' said Jane Caron, chief economic strategist at Dwight Asset Management, a bond firm based in Vermont. Yields ''got down to a level that were not particularly compelling.''
 In fact, the price of gold, which is widely seen as a hedge against inflation, has fallen in recent weeks, and the yields on inflation-protected securities have been rising.
 Instead, economists and market specialists said, the recent sell-off suggested that investors had become more disenchanted with the low rate of return from bonds at a time when the global economy is continuing to expand at a robust pace. The stock market rally and rising interest rates in Europe and Asia may also be pressuring American government debt
 Ms. Caron said there were also some indications that investors in Asia, including the region's central banks that are big purchasers of United States government debt, may be scaling back. In the past, Asian investors have bought Treasuries as yields approach 5 percent.
 This time, however, ''there is not a lot of buying coming in from Asia,'' she said. 
 Officials in China, one of the biggest holders of American government debt, have said repeatedly that they have not and will not sell or reallocate to different currencies their existing foreign exchange reserve, currently at around $1.2 trillion. But officials of the People's Bank of China have publicly suggested on several occasions that they would seek to improve returns on new investments as money continued to pour into the reserves.
 The Chinese government has already distinguished itself from other governments in its willingness to take somewhat greater credit risk on foreign reserves, most notably through its purchase of an estimated $100 billion worth of American mortgage-backed securities.
 Since Chinese foreign exchange reserves are rising at more than $300 billion a year as a result of widening trade surpluses and net foreign investment, a decision by officials in Beijing to allocate a greater portion to other currencies could potentially cause ripples in the international currency markets.
 But the Chinese tend to move very gradually in any economic or financial policy decision, particularly regarding the currency, so most experts think it is unlikely that they are shifting sharply away from dollar-denominated purchases even with new money coming into their reserves.
 ''They want to own dollars,'' said Harold S. Woolley, a managing director at Bessemer Trust, an investment firm in New York. ''Nobody forces them to sell goods to us and take dollars.''
 Another explanation for the rise in yields, economists suggest, is that investors are realizing that they had been wrong about the direction of interest rates in the last year or two. 
 In the United States, investors had believed the slowing housing market would prompt the Fed to cut short-term interest rates. Not only has that not happened, but policy makers have steadfastly signaled that they would not do so until inflation expectations fell more significantly. 
 That could explain, analyst said, why yields on long-term securities are rising faster than yields on short-term securities. For much of the last year, yields have been inverted or flat so shorter-term debt paid just as much, if not more, than longer-duration notes and bonds. 
 In Europe and Asia central bankers have been raising rates in response to strong growth and worries about inflation -- and indicating that they are not done. 
 ''We are seeing increases in foreign interest rates, and there is lot of evidence that global economy is doing very well,'' said David Kelly, an economist at Putnam Investments, the mutual fund company based in Boston. He noted that many economists were even forecasting a pickup in the American economy, which slowed notably in the first quarter.
 There is some risk, however, that the higher yields and accompanying higher borrowing costs could put a damper on any resurgence.
 As of last week, the national average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage was at 6.53 percent, up from 6.18 percent at the start of the year, according to Freddie Mac. 
 Though that is still low by historical levels, rising rates would mean consumers who are refinancing or buying a home will have to spend more of their disposable income on monthly house payments than they have been. That could hurt consumer spending and the broader economy.
 Businesses will probably fare somewhat better, according to Mr. Kelly and others, because interest costs tend to have a relatively small impact on corporate profit. Also, business credit remains widely available and at good terms. 
 ''I don't see how this will shut anything off,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist with Wells Capital Management. He said that yields would have to climb to 6 percent or more before borrowing costs start to hurt businesses. 

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the 10-year Treasury yield. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (71%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (56%); DWIGHT ASSET MANAGEMENT CO (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



245 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Middle East: U.S. Adds Gulf Allies To Trafficking Blacklist

BYLINE: REUTERS

 BODY:
The United States added four Arab allies -- Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman and Qatar -- to its list of countries with the worst records of preventing people from being sold into the sex trade and servitude. In its annual report on human trafficking, the State Department also added Algeria, Equatorial Guinea and Malaysia to the list of countries with the lowest ranking. The others are Cuba, Iran, Myanmar, North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, Uzbekistan and Venezuela. Countries have 90 days to improve their records or face sanctions, including loss of American aid and support for loans from the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. The administration can also choose not to impose sanctions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); SEX TRAFFICKING (87%); LABOR TRAFFICKING (87%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (87%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); KUWAIT (92%); OMAN (91%); BAHRAIN (91%); SAUDI ARABIA (91%); QATAR (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); SYRIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



246 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN THE HUNT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: The Hectic Chronicles

BYLINE: By BRENT BOWERS

 BODY:
HEY, all you work addicts out there, get a life.
 It took a nervous breakdown to force Timothy Ferriss to take that advice. But before I tell you his story, let me toss out a sampling of comments -- boasts, really -- that I've garnered recently from entrepreneurs about their hectic schedules.
 From a corporate executive who runs several businesses on the side: ''I get up at 3:30 a.m. I put in a full day at the office. In the evening, I do my personal paperwork.''
 From the owner of an office-equipment company: ''I didn't take a vacation for four straight years, and I was working 60 to 70 hours a week. I don't need anybody to encourage me to be in the office at 7 a.m. I'm there.'' 
 From the founder of a clothing store that is now defunct: ''Throughout my career, I'd wake up at 2 a.m. and not be able to get back to sleep. I'd say to myself: I should have bought green blouses instead of blue blouses. I worked all day, every day.'' 
 And my favorite, from William Kluckas, the 71-year-old founder of WFK Associates, who retired for good in 2003:''Almost every night, I dream I'm working. It isn't a replay of the past; the situations are all brand-new. I'm still solving problems. The only difference is that I'm not billing anybody anymore.''
 Mr. Ferriss, founder of BrainQuicken, a maker of a dietary supplement in San Jose, Calif., that is supposed to increase brainpower and physical performance, used to be like them. (His product is just the ticket for unrepentant workaholics, come to think of it.)
 The revelation that fast footwork can lead to a bigger payoff than a slow slog came to Mr. Ferriss when he was a student at Princeton University in 1998 and began holding seminars on how to cram for exams. The $1,500 he made for a few hours of hustle sure beat the $8 an hour he was pulling down at his job in a library attic.
 After starting BrainQuicken in 2001 at age 23, though, he fell into the classic trap of the start-up maven. ''I worked from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.,'' he recalled. ''I'd get up early to call wholesalers, distributors and customers in the U.K. and Europe, and would call Asia at the end of the day. I spent four or five hours every Saturday and Sunday reading e-mail.''
 He remembers the day his recovery began: June 14, 2004. He was visiting an entrepreneur friend in Brooklyn who had gone down an identical path, and said to himself, ''Enough is enough.''
 He took a cab to John F. Kennedy International Airport with just his backpack and bought a one-way ticket to London, where he crashed at a friend's pad. ''I envisaged waking up slowly, stretching like a cat in a Spanish villa and relaxing over a book,'' he said. ''Instead, I bolted upright in bed. I had this compulsion to check my e-mail. 
 ''I wandered the city for three days in a daze, visiting museums, unable to think about anything except work. I couldn't walk past an Internet cafe without an upsurge of anxiety that I was missing out on something. I felt compelled to draw up lists of things to do, including 'go to dinner' and 'go to sleep,' just so I could check them off.''
 Pretty pathetic, huh? If you can top that one, please let me know at the e-mail address below.
 I'll probably get a lot of e-mails. Ted Zoller, executive director at the Center for Entrepreneurial Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, says burnout is an intrinsic peril for entrepreneurs because they become so caught up in their vision that ''they can't restrain themselves, they can't monitor themselves.''
 His advice for avoiding the workaholic pitfall: pace yourself, set milestones and scale them back if you fall short, and have an exit plan. Also, make an inventory of the important things in your personal life, and get in the habit of reading obituaries. ''You'll quickly realize that in the grand scheme of things, your venture isn't going to matter all that much,'' he said.
 Mr. Ferriss says it took him two months to cast off his workaholic chains. He began checking his e-mails once every 10 days. He discovered the magic of the 80-20 Pareto principle, named after an Italian economist, which states that 80 percent of consequences stem from 20 percent of causes. He began ignoring the 80 percent of his customers who accounted for just 20 percent of his business, and even jettisoned one of his top five buyers, who was creating more trouble than he was worth. His workload shrank, his revenue rose and his profit margin shot up by 30 percent.
 Mr. Ferriss even applied the 80-20 rule to his personal life, spending more time with the 20 percent of his friends who gave him 80 percent of the pleasures of companionship and avoiding the 20 percent who contributed 80 percent of the frustrations.
 He even wrote a book, out seven weeks and already a best seller, titled ''The 4-Hour Workweek'' (Crown Publishers), spelling out how to stop wasting time and start enjoying yourself. By four-hour workweek, he says, he means the time you devote to distasteful tasks. By all means, put in 50 hours on product development or schmoozing with clients, if that turns you on, he says. But if your preferences run to having fun, you could also travel, write a screenplay, go hiking on the Appalachian Trail or take up flying.
 In his own case, he says, his laid-back philosophy has allowed him to become a world-champion cage fighter, the first American to hold a Guinness world record in tango, a Princeton University lecturer, an actor on a hit TV series in China and a whole litany of other adventures.
 I recommend ''The 4-Hour Workweek'' because it's fast-paced and witty. His account of how he won the gold medal at the Chinese Kickboxing National Championship, for example, is hilarious. I'd tell you more but I promised myself I wouldn't spend any more than 3 hours and 59 minutes on this column (yes, Tim, I'm beating you at your own game) and my time is up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); WHOLESALERS (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%); EUROPE (50%); UNITED KINGDOM (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007



247 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Shares Drop Sharply as Bonds Rise Again

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street took a plunge yesterday, driving the Dow Jones industrial average down nearly 130 points, as investors grappled with a seemingly relentless rise in bond yields.
 It was a fitful trading session in which stocks tumbled, clawed their way back, then plummeted again when the yield on the 10-year Treasury note soared to a five-year high of 5.29 percent.
 The climb in bond yields exacerbated jitters about rising mortgage rates, which could hurt the already sluggish housing market, and about an increase in interest rates by the Federal Reserve, which would slow down corporate deal making. 
 ''It's partially an excuse to take profits, but there are also some legitimate concerns that if bond yields get high enough, they will present an attractive alternative to stocks, and that higher interest rates will reduce private equity activity,'' said Edward Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research.
 The rise in Treasury yields was stoked by a tepid reaction to the government's auction of $8 billion in new 10-year notes, and further aggravated by comments from the former Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, at a meeting of the Commercial Mortgage Securities Association in New York. Mr. Greenspan said that he was not worried about foreign governments selling their Treasury holdings, but said yields would most likely rise in the future.
 ''I think Greenspan's comments are on both sides of the fence,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners, a New York brokerage house. He added that with quarterly options expiring at the end of this week, the stock market was especially volatile right now.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 129.95 points, or 0.97 percent, to 13,295.01. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 16.12 points, or 1.07 percent, to 1,493.00, while the Nasdaq composite index dropped 22.38, or 0.87 percent, to 2,549.77. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies dropped 11.46 points, or 1.38 percent, to 821.72.
 Light sweet crude futures fell 62 cents to $65.35 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 The stock market had losses in most sectors yesterday, but there was particular weakness in home builders as investors worried that Americans could be dissuaded from buying homes; mortgage rates rise alongside the 10-year yield.
 Toll Brothers, Centex, KB Home, Pulte Homes and Lennar all fell more than 2 percent, while Hovnanian Enterprises dropped more than 4 percent.
 Dean Foods, the largest dairy company in the United States, warned that its full-year profit before certain items would miss Wall Street's forecast because of rising raw milk prices and an oversupply of organic milk. The stock fell $1.39, or 4.3 percent, to $31.07.
 Texas Instruments, which makes semiconductors used in mobile phones, narrowed its second-quarter forecast late Monday. The stock fell 75 cents, or 2.10 percent, to $35.04.
 Continental Airlines also slumped after analysts cut their earnings expectations. Continental fell $1.59, or 4.5 percent, to $34.10.
 But Lehman Brothers Holdings reported a stronger-than-expected profit for its second-quarter. Bear Stearns and the Goldman Sachs Group are expected to report today.
 Lehman rose 38 cents to $76.06.
 The video-game publisher Take-Two Interactive Software announced plans to cut costs and received an analyst upgrade. Its stock rose 39 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $19.33.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills and 10-year notes. (000 omitted in dollar figures) Price: 99.646 High Rate: 4.545 Coupon Yield: 4.637 Low Rate: 4.500 Median Rate: 4.530 Total applied for: $37,144,946 Accepted: $13,926,906 Noncompetitive: $381,840 The four-week bills mature July 12, 2007. (000 omitted in dollar figures) Price: 94.399 High Yield: 5.230 Low Yield: 5.172 Median Yield: 5.210 Total applied for: $20,436,166 Accepted: $8,000,068 Noncompetitive: $32,166 Interest set at: 4 1/2 The 10-year notes mature May 15, 2007. 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); FOOD PRICES (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); AUCTIONS (72%); ENERGY MARKETS (72%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); MILK (65%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (63%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (63%); DAIRY FARMING (62%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (60%); ORGANIC FOODS (60%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (51%); KB HOME CORP (51%); PULTEGROUP INC (51%); DEAN FOODS CO (51%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (50%)

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (51%); KBH (NYSE) (51%); PHM (NYSE) (51%); DF (NYSE) (51%); TXN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (51%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (51%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (51%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311512 CREAMERY BUTTER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



248 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Dispute Over Arrest Pattern At the Puerto Rican Parade

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Al Baker and Thomas J. Lueck contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Details of the complaints by police against the people arrested at the Puerto Rican Day Parade on Sunday outline a pattern in the way they were arrested, according to documents released yesterday.
 Criminal complaints filed against 10 defendants show that the police were concerned about the risk that those arrested would engage in violent or threatening behavior or cause some public inconvenience.
The complaints also indicate that the police were looking for signs of gang identification, like clothing colors and hand signals, when they arrested people. 
 Police officials said yesterday that everyone arrested on Sunday was arrested for engaging in specific illegal behavior, like pushing or blocking pedestrian traffic, not for something they had not yet done or for circumstantial reasons like wearing gang colors.
 ''It's situational -- officers reacted to the situation,'' Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said yesterday of Sunday's arrests. ''They made, in my judgment, appropriate arrests. It doesn't seem to me to be out of the ordinary in terms of the numbers that we've had associated with parades in the past.''
 Civil liberties experts said the pattern of the complaints suggested that the police might have been arresting people en masse and swept up some innocent bystanders along the way.
 Similar concerns have been raised by civil liberties advocates about other group arrests in recent years, as happened at the Republican National Convention in 2004, the World Economic Forum in 2002 and a gathering of young people last month in Bushwick, Brooklyn, when the police arrested about 30 people on the way to a friend's wake.
 Christopher Dunn, a lawyer for the New York Civil Liberties Union, said that when there are ''indiscriminate mass arrests,'' you have ''innocent bystanders being arrested,'' and that may have happened at the Puerto Rican Day Parade. He added, ''These same tactics tarnished the policing of the Republican National Convention.'' 
 Paul J. Browne, a deputy police commissioner, defended the arrests. ''There were no pre-emptive arrests made at the Republican National Convention, none made in Bushwick, and there were none made here,'' he said.
 The police said they arrested 208 people at this year's parade, including 132 who were charged with unlawful assembly. Mr. Dunn said it was customary for people charged with minor offenses to be given summonses and allowed to go home. Instead, dozens were arrested, jailed overnight and fingerprinted before being released, according to a supervisor with the Legal Aid Society. 
 Mr. Browne said most of the people the police suspected of being gang members were from out of town, and so did not qualify for desk appearance tickets.
 The number of arrests made at last year's parade was also in dispute yesterday. News reports of the 2006 arrests said at the time that roughly 50 to 60 people were arrested, and yesterday's New York Times report on Sunday's parade adopted the figure of ''at least 50'' used in The Times's 2006 account. 
 But Mr. Browne said yesterday that there were actually 151 arrests made at the parade last year. He also said there were 223 arrests at the parade the year before, in 2005.
 But in describing the 2006 arrests, the Manhattan district attorney's office yesterday gave a number much lower than the Police Department's. ''We were informed by the Police Department that there were 64 arrests last year,'' Barbara Thompson, a spokeswoman for the district attorney's office, said yesterday. 
 Later, Mr. Browne said that the 64 arrests were processed at Police Headquarters but that 87 more arrests were processed at precinct stations or went directly to court. 
 The police acknowledged that the number of people suspected of being gang members arrested at the parade this year rose sharply to 198 from 69 last year.
 Mr. Browne said that although the parade committee had expressed concern that a gang, the Latin Kings, might try to crash the parade, the police were not acting on an order from any public official like the mayor or the police commissioner.
 Edward McCarthy, a Legal Aid Society lawyer, said during the arraignments on Monday that most of the defendants did not appear to have prior criminal records. Mr. Browne said he could not confirm or deny that. 
 In interviews on Monday, many of those arrested at the parade said they were not gang members. Although a few of those who were arraigned on Monday were wearing yellow or gold and black, the colors of the Latin Kings, many more people were wearing red, blue and white, the Puerto Rican flag colors.
 Even some of those wearing yellow and black denied that they were gang members, and Panama Vicente Alba, a Puerto Rican activist, said yesterday that the black and gold beads and clothing associated with Latin Kings were popular for other reasons as well.
 ''The use of beads is particularly prominent amongst the many thousands (perhaps millions) in our community who practice the Yoruba religion,'' Mr. Alba wrote in an e-mail message. ''Many such individuals were either arrested or ordered to remove their beads during this year's Puerto Rican Day Parade.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (93%); PARADES & MARCHES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); FINGERPRINTING (78%); GANGS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); LEGAL AID (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



249 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Orthopedic Surgery

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Health Care as if Costs Didn't Matter,'' by David Leonhardt (Economix column, June 6): 
 Mr. Leonhardt's inclusion of knee replacements in his examples of ''medically questionable care'' runs contrary to many published reports by the National Institutes of Health and other reputable organizations that reaffirm that knee replacements are highly successful surgical procedures that permit millions of disabled Americans to regain their lives and walk without pain.
 The evidence about lumbar fusions is currently being discussed and evaluated by an N.I.H.-financed research grant. We are supportive of efforts to critically evaluate, with evidence-based medicine, the optimal use of all medical and surgical procedures and practices, including lumbar fusions. 
 Orthopedic surgeons are committed to ensuring that the American public has access to high-quality, affordable health care and has the facts about orthopedic surgical procedures that are medically necessary. James H. Beaty, M.D. Daniel J. Berry, M.D. Michael A. Kelly, M.D. George H. Thompson, M.D. Rosemont, Ill., June 7, 2007 The writers are, respectively, president of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons; president of the American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons; president of the Knee Society; and president of the Scoliosis Research Society.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (95%); ORTHOPEDICS (92%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); EVIDENCE BASED MEDICINE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (70%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (58%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ORTHOPAEDIC SURGEONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



250 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Surviving Under Mao: A Slacker's Guide

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
 Confessions An Innocent Life in Communist China By Kang Zhengguo Illustrated. 455 pages. W. W. Norton. $27.95. 
 Kang Zhengguo, a poet and student of literature, loved to write. The watchful guardians of the Chinese Communist Party made sure that he got plenty of practice. His favorite forms were the lyric poem and the diary. Theirs was the confession, and Mr. Kang turned them out by the dozen throughout his life, expiating one supposed crime after another by denouncing himself as a reactionary element, a deviationist and whatever else was on the political menu that day.
Despite the constant practice, Mr. Kang never learned his lesson. Late in ''Confessions,'' his remarkable memoir about growing up in Mao's China, he makes the most damning admission of all. 
 ''I am incapable of saying what people want to hear,'' he writes. ''In fact I regard it as my personal mission to speak the opposite.'' In other words, the party was right about him all along. ''I am a reactionary in this sense,'' he explains, ''and this concept has informed my behavior all my life.''
 Dreamy, lazy, romantic, stubborn and impulsive, Mr. Kang spelled trouble from the start. He was not a dissident in the normal sense, but a determined individualist and a goof-off, seemingly intent on working against his own best interests, which is what makes ''Memoirs'' such a mesmerizing read.
 In the United States Mr. Kang might have been a beatnik, a slacker or a nerd. In China his lofty contempt for political orthodoxy and his inability to adapt put him on a collision course with the authorities, and set him on the wobbly life path recorded so evocatively in ''Confessions.''
 Mr. Kang, now in his early 60s, compiled an extraordinary resume in his checkered career. A resident of Xian, a provincial capital in China's central plains, he enrolled in the literature department of the local university and immediately attracted the wrong kind of attention. A politically attuned professor spotted him carrying a biography of Napoleon. ''He insinuated that my interest in Napoleon implied that I cherished dubious political ambitions, which he was duty-bound to bring to light,'' Mr. Kang writes. 
 Expulsion for this and other microscopic offenses soon followed. Mr. Kang, loath to burden his family, signed on as a confined laborer at a brickyard. His outlook was optimistic and romantic. 
 ''All in all, it would be a rare opportunity for me to get a glimpse of the lowest rungs of society,'' he writes with characteristic elan.
 He gets his glimpse, and it's no fun at all. Unremitting labor, prisonlike conditions and the company of convict laborers depress him. ''The place was simply a viper's pit and completely lacked the Robin Hood types and thrilling adventures that my favorite prison novels had led me to expect,'' he writes. Then he joined the dregs himself.
 In one of many foolish moments described in the book, Mr. Kang, having read denunciations of the novel ''Dr. Zhivago,'' decided he had to read it. He sent off a letter in Russian to the Moscow University Library requesting a copy. 
 A three-year prison sentence ensued. After his release, Mr. Kang moved to a small village and, after arranging to be adopted by an old bachelor, joined a peasant commune and tried his hand at tilling the soil. The experiment, which lasted for years, was not a success. ''I was a substandard peasant,'' he admits.
 Like a character in a picaresque novel, Mr. Kang stumbles from one misadventure to the next, his big mouth and relaxed habits ensuring disaster at every turn. City, country, prison--he covers it all. The confessions pile up, his dossier swells, and even China begins to look too small to accommodate him. All he wants, really, is a quiet place to curl up and read a book, and a few notebooks to write in. The party won't allow it.
 Mr. Kang serves as an extraordinary guide through an extraordinary period of Chinese history. He lives through the Great Leap Forward, the Cultural Revolution, the thaw following Mao's death, the growing democracy movement of the 1980s and the crackdown after the protests in Tiananmen Square. 
 The great events are expressed in personal terms, and they are colored by Mr. Kang's unusual sensibility. He suffers, but he sees himself more often than not as a comic figure, and the repressive machinery of the Chinese state as a tangle of absurdities. 
 Mr. Kang's tone is sardonic, wry, urbane. He relishes the particulars of his often horrific circumstances, the details of rural life and, above all, the strange contradictions of his society. Even at the height of the Cultural Revolution, small social spaces opened up, allowing people to breathe. An act of kindness here, a sneaky bit of deception there, and the inevitable inefficiencies and human weaknesses of those in charge contribute to an unusually complex picture of life in China in its most repressive period.
 Simply as a documentary record of daily life in China, ''Confessions'' is a rewarding read, but Mr. Kang, a gifted stylist (well served by his translator, Susan Wilf), has transmuted his struggles into a literary work of high distinction. 
 And it has a happy ending too. In the 1970s Mr. Kang returned to school, found a job as a university teacher and, after his work on classical Chinese poetry reached an academic audience in the United States, received an invitation to teach Chinese at Yale. 
 Needless to say, Mr. Kang, even after landing on his feet in the United States, bringing his wife and children with him, manages to trip up one more time. Although he's well into middle age, and the new China is swept up in a quasi-capitalist economic boom, the party is not quite finished with him, and old habits die hard, as he discovers on a last trip home. There's always time, apparently, for one more confession.
Confessions - Kang Zhengguo - Books - ReviewBOOKS OF THE TIMES 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kang Zhengguo (Photo by Wei Su)(pg. E9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHAANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



251 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: New TV Campaign Stars Bronx as a Tourist's Delight

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Television viewers in the New York region will learn about a new and intriguing tourist destination this month. It is an exotic land the size of Paris, an urban retreat that gave the world not only hip-hop but also Billy Joel, and is home to a zoo, a baseball stadium and a jeer disguised as a cheer.
 The Bronx. 
A series of television commercials promoting the borough of 1.3 million will be on the airwaves starting June 25. The 30-second spots, the first television advertisements the Bronx has used to sell itself, are part of a marketing campaign called ''We're Talking the Bronx,'' starring Adolfo Carrion Jr., the borough president.
 In the nine commercials, Mr. Carrion boasts of the borough's Zagat-rated restaurants (there are 25 of them, he says), its booming residential and commercial development, its physical beauty and its many attractions, like the Bronx Zoo and Yankee Stadium. 
 The $200,000 campaign was paid for by several Bronx institutions and companies featured in the ads, including the Yankees, Fordham University and North Fork Bank.
 Mr. Carrion unveiled the ads yesterday at a news conference at Fordham Preparatory School. Though the image of the Bronx as a burning, dangerous place is outdated by several decades, he said people outside the borough still needed to be reminded not so much of what the Bronx is, but what it is not.
 ''The Bronx has risen from the decades of the '70s and '80s to a place that many people didn't imagine that it could,'' Mr. Carrion said after the event. ''It is a great American story of a community that refused failure, that embraced success and opportunity.''
 The ads will run for nine weeks on cable networks including CNN and ESPN in parts of the Bronx, Manhattan and Westchester County. They could be seen by roughly one million viewers, according to Weinrib & Connor, the White Plains advertising agency that produced the ads.
 The spots promoting one of New York City's grittier boroughs give the place a rather old-fashioned, small-town feel. A fiddle plays pleasantly in the background as Mr. Carrion and others smile at the camera, though the borough's homegrown musical legacies include hip-hop, doo-wop and salsa.
 In one ad, an unidentified representative of Woodlawn Cemetery, one of the financial sponsors of the campaign, stares into the camera and says: ''Whether preplanning or at a time of need, come talk with us.''
 In others, viewers are whisked from the borough's Little Italy on Arthur Avenue to the blue-backed seats of Yankee Stadium to the interior of North Central Bronx Hospital, ''the hospital of choice for the Norwood community.'' There are shots of Mike's Deli on Arthur Avenue and the eager staff of a Ridgewood Savings Bank branch.
 The ads were shot throughout the borough in four days in May. The focus is on the big picture, and the little one, too. Mr. Carrion says in one scene that in the past five years, $2.4 billion has been invested in housing in the Bronx. In others, he points out the borough's efforts to reduce traffic congestion in neighborhoods and rebuild playgrounds.
 ''More than 7,500 families have bought homes and are living the great American dream right here in the Bronx,'' Mr. Carrion says at one point, referring to the period since 2002. ''We're talking the Bronx.''
 Naturally, the ads put a nice gloss on life in the borough. There is no mention of the borough's high unemployment and poverty rates, and no mention that it lacks a major hotel.
 The ads are part of a marketing campaign that is now in its fourth year. The promotional push has included radio spots, newspaper ads and billboards, and now TV commercials. Past ads featured celebrity Bronxites, including the television host Regis Philbin and the mystery writer Mary Higgins Clark.
 Lloyd Ultan, the borough historian, said a little boosterism was necessary for a borough often overshadowed by Manhattan and still stereotyped by the fires, crime and abandonment of the 1970s and 1980s.
 ''When you say 'the Bronx' to many people, it conjures up images of Jimmy Carter walking on the plains of Charlotte Street,'' said Mr. Ultan, 69, referring to the former president's visit to rubble-strewn lots in the South Bronx in October 1977. ''But that's 30 years ago. People must realize that there are no longer any devastated areas in the Bronx, that crime in the Bronx has dropped to the lowest levels in 40 years.'' 
 Mr. Carrion said the goal of the campaign was to generate more tourism to the borough, which attracted about seven million visitors last year. The ads also raise the profile of Mr. Carrion, who is considered a possible candidate for mayor in 2009.
 When asked if the ads would help his political future, he said yesterday: ''Every time I wake up in the morning and do my job right, it helps me to do whatever I'm going to do next.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCAST ADVERTISING (91%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TOURISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (79%); CABLE TELEVISION (79%); SPONSORSHIP (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); RAP MUSIC (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); BASEBALL (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%)

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (82%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: ADOLFO CARRION JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



252 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Mayor and Council Agree on Budget, Providing Breaks on Property and Sales Tax

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

 BODY:
New York City taxpayers would get a larger-than-expected break on their property taxes under a deal announced last night by city leaders on a $59 billion budget. The pact would also use a record $4.4 billion surplus to eliminate taxes on clothing and shoes and increase library service to six days a week.
 The agreement, sealed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, with a handshake and a kiss in the City Hall rotunda, comes weeks earlier than usual and was the earliest since Mr. Bloomberg took office in 2002. The highlight is a 7 percent across-the-board cut in the property tax rate, 2 percentage points more than the mayor proposed in January. 
While the rate cut may not mean lower tax bills for everyone, it will help offset soaring property assessments, officials said. 
 The early budget agreement allows the cuts to be reflected in the property tax bill for the first quarter of the fiscal year 2008, which begins July 1, providing an immediate dose of political good will for the mayor and the Council. The bills will be sent out within the next week. 
 It also allows the mayor to focus on other pressing items of his agenda, including winning legislative approval for his congestion-pricing plan. 
 In a joint announcement, Mr. Bloomberg called the early agreement ''a tribute to the cooperative relationship we've developed with the City Council leadership, members and the budget staff. Together we've reached a budget that we think is good for the entire city and one that will carry us over and keep us from making some of the mistakes of the past.'' 
 Ms. Quinn said the budget ''balances fiscal responsibility with the need to provide essential city services to New Yorkers.'' 
 The deal, which the Council is all but sure to approve in a vote scheduled for Friday, adds about $230 million to the formal budget proposal the mayor unveiled in April.
 In addition to the property tax cuts, the budget would renew the $400 property tax rebates for homeowners, which total about $256 million a year. It would also provide about $110 million in sales tax relief by eliminating city sales taxes that now apply to clothing and shoe purchases of over $110, and by providing $75 million in tax breaks for small businesses and S-corporations, a type of partnership. The tax cuts total about $1.3 billion.
 The business and sales tax cuts will require legislative approval from Albany, which approved renewal of the rebates for homeowners last week. 
 The mayor's office had proposed about $110 million in business tax breaks in January but trimmed the number by about $35 million in an agreement with the Council to increase property tax cuts, according to administration officials. 
 The cut in the property tax rate was intended to soften the impact of rising property values, which will lead to higher tax bills for many property owners. According to the city's estimates, market values grew by 19 percent in 2006, double the increase of the previous year.
 The mayor and the Council said yesterday that the 7 percent cut would effectively offset the rising property values, meaning that the average home owner's tax bill would not rise. 
 According to Council figures, the average yearly tax bill for condominiums in the coming fiscal year, with the rise in assessments combined with the lower tax rate, would be $6,061. Compared with fiscal year 2007's average bill of $6,476, that would be a savings of $415.
 Co-op owners, who are assessed differently, would pay about $3,975 in the new fiscal year, compared with fiscal year 2007's average of $3,944, an increase of $31.
 And owners of single family homes would pay $2,964 in the new fiscal year, compared with an average $2,977 in the current fiscal year, a $13 savings.
 For Ms. Quinn, the budget included some victories and defeats. She won approval to have all public libraries returned to being open at least six days a week, a service that was lost in cuts after 9/11. And under the agreement, the expanded hours would begin right away, not over three years, as she originally proposed. 
 But she did not win a $300 tax credit for renters, the highlight of the budget priorities she announced in April. Ms. Quinn said she would continue to press for the renters' credit with the mayor and in Albany, which would also have to approve it. 
 She said the Council was successful in restoring $21 million in financing that will allow City University of New York to retain full-time faculty and hire more professors. The budget also includes more money for full-day prekindergarten slots. 
 The budget would provide for bulletproof vests for auxiliary police officers and improvements to the 311 system. It would also include $200 million for mass transit initiatives called for in the mayor's environmental blueprint for the city, PlaNYC, and $28 million for 9/11 health programs. 
 The early budget agreement is a stark signal of how the city's financial picture has improved over the last five years. When Mr. Bloomberg took office, he and the Council were forced to raise property taxes 18 percent in addition to cutting government services in the face of the economic downturns after 9/11. Budget negotiations then were filled with histrionics, each side accusing the other of overspending or shortchanging essential services. 
 The process has become positively cordial by comparison over the last two years, especially since Ms. Quinn took over as speaker in 2006. 
 But the mayor and the Council warned that the city's financial fortunes could turn in the next few years. For that reason, the budget includes $2.3 billion to pay down future expenses and debt in 2009 and 2010. They also made the 7 percent tax reduction a one-year cut with a promise to extend it if the economy remains strong. 
 ''In the months ahead, we'll keep a close eye on the city's finances as we weigh whether to extend this property tax cut next year,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at City Hall yesterday, with Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn at his left, announcing an accord on the city budget. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); PROPERTY TAX (92%); CITIES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SALES TAX (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); MAYORS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



253 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Senate Democrats Propose Loans for Coal-Based Fuel Plants

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12 

 BODY:
As the Senate began debate Tuesday on a sprawling bill to reduce oil consumption, top Democrats were circulating a proposal to provide $10 billion in loans for plants that make diesel fuel from coal.
 The proposal highlights the horse-trading involving powerful industry groups as Democratic leaders push for legislation that would require higher mileage in cars and a huge increase in the production of renewable fuels made from plants like switch grass.
But many environmental groups are flatly opposed. ''We don't think the federal government should be subsidizing liquid coal,'' said Erich Pica of Friends of the Earth. ''From a global warming and an environmental position, liquid coal is an unacceptable source of energy.'' 
 The bill is being circulated by Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, chairman of the Senate Energy Committee and the energy bill's lead author. Until this week, Mr. Bingaman had opposed big subsidies for coal-based fuels, saying that each new production plant would cost billions of dollars and that the economic uncertainties posed risks for taxpayers.
 But in what could be an effort to fend off demands from coal-state lawmakers for bigger subsidies, Mr. Bingaman's draft proposal would offer up to $10 billion in direct government loans for coal-to-liquid plants.
 Bill Wicker, a spokesman for Mr. Bingaman, said that the draft proposal was ''not a Bingaman amendment per se,'' but that coal-based fuel was of interest to many lawmakers.
 The individual loans would be allowed to cover up to half the total cost of a new plant, and the plants would have to be capable of capturing and storing the carbon dioxide emitted during production.
 Numerous companies have proposed coal-to-liquid projects, and industry supporters have said that a plant producing 50,000 barrels of fuel a day would cost at least $3 billion and probably more than $4 billion.
 Coal industry supporters say coal-based liquids could replace millions of gallons of gasoline a day, reducing the country's dependence on imported oil from the Middle East and other troubled areas.
 Coal-state lawmakers are pushing for a wide array of government assistance to jump-start the industry. In the House, Representative Rick Boucher, Democrat of Virginia, has drafted a bill that would insulate coal-to-liquid plants from gyrations in energy prices by providing loans if oil prices dropped too low to make coal-based liquids profitable.
 Other lawmakers have proposed letting the Air Force sign 20-year contracts to buy vast amounts of coal-based jet fuel at fixed prices. Still others have proposed including coal-based liquids in a government mandate to greatly expand production of alternative fuels.
 ''A group of us is working on it,'' said Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota and a strong supporter of liquefied-coal fuel. But Mr. Dorgan cautioned that Mr. Bingaman's bill was ''still a work in progress'' and that Democratic leaders had yet to agree on what incentives to include in the measure.
 Corey Henry, a spokesman for the Coal to Liquid Coalition, an industry lobbying group, said he was optimistic that the Senate would include some kind of support.
 ''You can definitely see that there's a bipartisan effort to achieve a workable coal-to-liquid provision,'' Mr. Henry said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BIOFUELS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); JET FUEL (72%); COAL INDUSTRY (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); AIR FORCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (57%)

PERSON: JEFF BINGAMAN (79%); BYRON DORGAN (58%); RICK BOUCHER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



254 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Bush Lobbies G.O.P. Senators for Stalled Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and JEFF ZELENY; Robert Pear contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12 

 BODY:
In an effort to revive a crippled immigration bill, President Bush visited the Capitol on Tuesday to try to assure wary Senate Republicans personally that border security was a driving force behind his push for changes in immigration law.
 The president, intensifying his lobbying on behalf of the stalled measure, also told lawmakers he would put more emphasis on the measure's border protection elements as he tries to sell it to a skeptical public in appearances beginning this week.
''We've got to convince the American people that this bill is the best way to enforce our border,'' Mr. Bush said after he concluded one of his infrequent meetings with lawmakers on their turf.
 The trip to the weekly Senate party luncheon -- his first since 2001 -- came on the first full day of his return from a trip to Europe, where he attended an international summit meeting while the immigration measure collapsed at home. 
 But the president, who has made the overhaul a chief goal of his final months in office, said he was not willing to let the opportunity slip away because of stiff resistance over an approach that meshes new border protections with the chance for millions of illegal immigrants to qualify for legal residency.
 ''The status quo is unacceptable,'' Mr. Bush said, adding that ''the time is now to move a comprehensive piece of legislation.''
 Senator Mel Martinez of Florida, who is chairman of the Republican National Committee, said the new focus on security measures was intended as ''a confidence-building measure'' to shore up support among Republicans uneasy with the proposal rather than convert die-hard opponents.
 ''I don't think he changed any minds, but I think he helped those who may be on the fence who may be still trying to make a decision,'' Mr. Martinez said. 
 Just hours before the lunch, two Georgia Republicans, Senators Saxby Chambliss and Johnny Isakson, wrote Mr. Bush and urged him to propose emergency spending on border controls to reassure Americans that safeguarding the border would come before citizenship for illegal entrants.
 ''Such a move would show your commitment to securing the border first and to stopping the flow of illegal immigrants and drugs in our nation,'' said the letter from the two senators, who had helped draft the compromise legislation but pulled back after an outpouring of criticism from home-state voters.
 In a trip to Georgia two weeks ago, Mr. Bush angered critics of the bill when he suggested opponents were spreading ''empty political rhetoric trying to frighten our citizens.'' But those who attended the lunch said that the questions to the president and the exchanges were cordial and substantive and that the president did not take aim at conservatives who helped torpedo the legislation last week.
 ''He made clear that he wasn't there to threaten anybody or do anything that would be hostile to anybody who disagrees with him,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, a leading opponent of the bill. ''He was there to appeal to our sense of commitment to do the right thing.''
 But like several others, Mr. Sessions said that he had not been won over by Mr. Bush and that he would oppose any move to bring the legislation back quickly for a vote.
 Even before the president arrived with a retinue of administration officials, authors of the compromise were trying to come up with a defined list of changes to the bill that would be considered should Democrats consent to resurrecting it before the Fourth of July recess.
 Democratic leaders said it would be up to Mr. Bush, whose influence over Congressional Republicans has shown signs of waning, to prod skeptical members of his own party to get behind the measure. 
 ''We'll move onto immigration when they have their own act together,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, shortly after the president left the Capitol.
 While Mr. Bush was meeting with Republican senators, two cabinet officers pleaded for passage of the bill and sought to rebut criticism.
 One of the cabinet members, Michael Chertoff, secretary of homeland security, said the administration was willing to consider a number of proposed Republican amendments, including one that would require illegal immigrants to ''touch back'' in their home countries (or some other country) to apply for legal status. 
 ''That's doable,'' Mr. Chertoff said, referring to the proposal by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas. He said the administration was consulting with senators on a package of amendments ''that might win over some additional support'' for the bill.
 Under the bill as it now stands, illegal immigrants who have been in this country since Jan. 1 could get legal status and special ''Z visas,'' renewable every four years. They would have to leave the United States if they wanted to apply for permanent-residence visas, or green cards.
 Nine conservative Republican senators, including Jim DeMint of South Carolina, sent a letter to Mr. Bush urging him to enforce border security laws already on the books, regardless of whether the Senate passes the bill.
 Mr. Chertoff said the administration had already made a commitment to meet many goals set forth in the bill, like hiring more Border Patrol agents and putting up more fence along the border with Mexico. But he said that without the bill, his agency did not have the authority to require employers to check federal and state databases to verify that employees were eligible to work in the United States. 
 ''The single most important thing we need is a mandatory employment verification system,'' Mr. Chertoff said. The system, he said, would relieve pressure on the border by reducing the incentive for unauthorized immigrants to seek jobs in this country. 
 The other cabinet officer, Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, said that failure to pass the bill would hurt the economy. ''We will see rotting fruit'' in the fields, Mr. Gutierrez said. ''We will see lawns that don't get cared for. We will see patients who don't get cared for.'' 
 At the lunch, where aides said, Mr. Bush dined on a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, the president also told Republicans that he would not sign ''just any bill,'' Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi said. That comment was meant to answer a concern of critics who fear the president is so eager for a domestic achievement that he would agree to flawed legislation.
 Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a Republican supporter of the plan, said the president also noted that he could be more committed to making security a central feature of the immigration law than future presidents. ''I think he made a very good point that if we fail to act, others will,'' Mr. Graham said.
 Still, it remained far from certain whether the president's visit -- or his renewed emphasis on border security -- would move the bill closer to passage.
 ''It was a good give and take,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader. ''We didn't expect anybody to stand up and holler that they had an epiphany.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); BORDER CONTROL (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: JOHNNY ISAKSON (58%); MEL MARTINEZ (58%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007



255 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Markets Soar on Upbeat Economic Data

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks surged yesterday, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average to its biggest gain in almost 11 months, after the bond market rallied and a government report on retail sales exceeded economists' estimates.
 Bond yields fell from a five-year high.
Retail sales in the United States rose 1.4 percent in May, the Commerce Department said, the most in more than a year. Economists expected a gain of 0.6 percent, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. 
 Wal-Mart Stores, the world's biggest retailer, added 59 cents, to $49.50. Home Depot, the largest home-improvement chain, increased 37 cents, to $37.73.
 Stocks rose to their highest levels of the day after the Federal Reserve said economic strength had not added to wage and price inflation.
 ''Most districts reported that overall wage pressures do not seem to have increased,'' the Fed said in its regional survey, known as the beige book.
 ''Today's numbers are confidence builders, especially retail sales and the beige book,'' said Liam F. Dalton, chief executive of Axiom Capital Management in New York. ''It's back to the idea of strong global growth, and inflation remains moderate, and I think that's why stocks are rising.''
 The Dow average rose 187.34 points, or 1.4 percent, to 13,482.35. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 22.67 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,515.67, its biggest rally since March. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 32.54 points, or 1.3 percent, to 2,582.31. The Russell 2000 Index, a benchmark for smaller companies, added 10.82 points, or 1.3 percent, to 832.54.
 The yield of the 10-year Treasury note fell 0.09 percentage point, to 5.21 percent. Its price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rose 21/32, to 94 19/32. On Tuesday, inflation concerns sent the 10-year bond's yield to its highest since 2002.
 Financial shares in the S.& P. 500 jumped 1.8 percent, contributing the most to the index's gain, as lower borrowing costs may increase demand for loans. Citigroup added $1.08, to $53.68. JPMorgan Chase rose 94 cents, to $50.29.
 Utility companies in the S.& P. 500 gained 2 percent as a group and telephone shares increased 1.5 percent, as falling bond yields made their dividends more attractive.
 Duke Energy rose 43 cents, to $18.68. The Windstream Corporation, the largest rural telephone service provider in the United States, added 17 cents, to $14.85.
 Energy shares gained 1.9 percent as a group. Crude oil rose 91 cents, to $66.26 a barrel, after a government report showed a smaller-than-expected gain in United States supplies of motor fuel last week.
 Exxon Mobil added $1.35, to $83.35. Schlumberger, the oil field services provider, rose $3.22, to $81.96.
 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, the copper producer, rose $2.78, to a record $81.75 after saying it might sell assets to pay for debts incurred in its $26 billion acquisition of Phelps Dodge.
 AvalonBay Communities, a real estate investment trust for apartments, jumped $8.07, or 6.7 percent, to $128.96, for the steepest advance in the S.& P. 500. Investors speculated the company would be bought after Tishman Speyer Properties and Lehman Brothers Holdings purchased a rival, Archstone-Smith Trust, for $22.2 billion last month.
 Blockbuster jumped 32 cents, or 8.1 percent, to $4.27. The video-rental chain introduced an online-movie rental plan Tuesday that is cheaper than that of its rival, Netflix. Netflix lost 66 cents, to $19.42.
 Almost six stocks rose for every one that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Consolidated volume was 3.02 billion shares. 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RETAILERS (77%); HOME CENTERS (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); WINDSTREAM CORP (61%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%); WIN (NASDAQ) (61%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); WMT (NYSE) (57%); DUK (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (61%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (61%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (61%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



256 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Southeast Asian Terrorist Leader Is Under Arrest, Indonesian Police Confirm

BYLINE: By PETER GELLING

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, June 13 

 BODY:
After several days of uncertainty, the Indonesian police confirmed Wednesday that Abu Dujana, a major Southeast Asian terrorist leader and a most-wanted fugitive in Indonesia, had been arrested and was in custody in central Java. 
 Sisno Adiwinoto, the national police spokesman, told reporters that Mr. Dujana, described by Indonesian security officials as an Afghan-trained militant who had relationships with Qaeda leaders, was arrested last weekend with six other terrorism suspects.
 Mr. Adiwinoto said it had taken several days to confirm Mr. Dujana's identity because he had many aliases. The police had thought the suspect was one of his top aides.
 Mr. Dujana, 37, leads the military arm of Jemaah Islamiyah, the Southeast Asia Islamist group, the police said. He was captured after raids across central Java last weekend by Indonesia's Detachment 88.
 Jemaah Islamiyah has been blamed for a number of major bombings in Indonesia, including the 2002 bombing in Bali that killed more than 200 people. The police said that Mr. Dujana was wanted specifically for his role in the 2004 bombing of the Australian Embassy in Jakarta, but that he had long been involved with Jemaah Islamiyah.
 The militant wing of Jemaah Islamiyah has been seriously weakened in recent years after the capture or death of several of its leaders, including the master bomb maker Azhari Husin, who was killed in 2005.
 But raids in March by Detachment 88 uncovered detailed plans of Jemaah Islamiyah's new command structure, suggesting it was beginning to rebuild.
 ''The arrest of Dujana substantially improves the security situation in Indonesia,'' said Sidney Jones, an analyst with the Brussels-based International Crisis Group who works in Jakarta and is knowledgeable about Jemaah Islamiyah. ''But it is important to remember that this isn't just a military operation, it is a social and economic organization, it is resilient enough to withstand the arrest of a small number of individuals.''
 Another of Indonesia's most-wanted terrorists, a Malaysian-born militant, Noordin Top, is at large. The police said they believed that Mr. Dujana was involved in protecting Mr. Top, since the latter was nearly captured in 2005, and other significant Southeast Asian militants.
 Indonesia's success in capturing militants and dismantling the militant arm of Jemaah Islamiyah has won the country recognition and prompted the United States to begin normalizing military ties in 2005.
 Ansyaad Mbai, the top antiterrorism official at the Coordinating Ministry for Security and Political Affairs, said part of the reason for the success was the ability of the police to draw information from previously arrested militants.
 But despite the capture of Jemaah Islamiyah's more violent members, the group's ideological roots run deep throughout Indonesia.
 ''Many of these individuals are often living in one place, involved in local religious studies,'' Ms. Jones said. ''How do you move from really good police work in catching criminals responsible for violent activity to combating the ideological recruitment more generally when no criminal activity is being committed?'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abu Dujana, 37, chief of Jemaah Islamiyah's military arm, was captured with six other suspects. (Photo by ANTV, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (92%); TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (60%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JEMAAH ISLAMIYA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%) INDONESIA (99%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



257 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: A Small Rebound in the 2nd Quarter

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Words like ''modest,'' ''moderate'' and ''somewhat faster'' do not typically describe the type of economy that sends Wall Street on a tear.
 But that is exactly what happened yesterday when the Federal Reserve released its regular snapshot of economic conditions in the United States. The report found that the economy was lusterless overall but quickening in some regions.
The report also found that inflation was muted in recent weeks, a soothing observation for investors who have been unnerved lately by concerns that rising prices could prompt an interest rate increase by the Fed. 
 Stock prices, which had been gaining all day, surged shortly after the report was released at 2 p.m. and finished the trading day with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the broadest of the major stock indexes, posting its biggest leap since March. 
 Shares were already on the rise as bond yields, which rose to a five-year high on Tuesday, began to ease in the morning, and a new batch of economic data suggested that consumers were showing few signs of fatigue. With rising gas prices and falling property values in many parts of the country, the wherewithal of the American consumer has been in doubt.
 The Fed's beige book, which surveyed economic activity in the central bank's 12 regions from mid-April through the first few days of June, supported a report yesterday from the Commerce Department that said retail sales last month rose by the largest margin in nearly a year and a half. The 1.4 percent jump in May was far more than Wall Street was expecting, and it came after a 0.1 percent decline in April.
 The upswing in spending was widespread, with auto dealers, construction supply companies and clothing stores all reporting stronger sales, according to the Commerce Department.
 Another government report released yesterday suggested that American businesses were expecting this firm level of growth to continue in the second half of the year. The Commerce Department said that business inventories -- the stockpiles of unsold goods that companies accumulate -- rose 0.4 percent in April, the fastest pace since last September. Monthly inventory growth has not risen more than 0.2 percent since last fall.
 Economists said that a rebound in growth was to be expected after such a slow first quarter. The gross domestic product advanced just 0.6 percent from January through March, the slowest in more than four years. 
 ''It confirms for most of us the notion that the 0.6 percent first-quarter G.D.P. was more statistical artifact than dangerously close to recession,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist of ITG, an investment advisory firm. ''For those who thought the 0.6 percent G.D.P. number was a precursor to things going forward, that's a dead-on-arrival story.''
 Consumer spending has slowed from the lofty levels of last year. But economic growth in the second quarter is now starting to look stronger than many economists had predicted.
 ''It's going to be a very solid quarter,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist with MFR, an economic research firm. ''You have the consumer slowing down, but not precipitously in the second quarter; capital spending is O.K.; and it all nets out to what can be a pretty fancy second-quarter number.''
 The concern, he said, is if growth accelerates too quickly and prompts the Fed to raise rates. ''What will be much more important is what type of momentum we have in the end of the second quarter and in the third quarter. If it doesn't slow, I think people will start to worry about Fed tightening.''
 But in the wake of the latest numbers, any interest rate change up or down by the Fed seems far off. A measure of import prices, which the central bank monitors for signs of inflation, rose at a slower pace in May, according to a Labor Department report released yesterday.
 And the beige book noted that price increases were benign in recent weeks. ''District reports generally did not indicate an increase in overall price pressures,'' the report said.
 And labor costs, which have been a source of concern for Fed officials who worry that businesses could pass the cost of rising wages along to consumers, were tame. 
 The strain on the residential housing market showed few signs of abating, though commercial construction was growing, according to the Fed report. No district reported an increase in new home construction, and real estate agents across the country said they expected the slump to continue for ''several more months at least.''
 The one bright spot for housing, according to the report, was the market in and around New York City, which strengthened recently. Prices climbed, sales ''remained brisk'' and housing inventories shrunk. The New York district was the only Fed district to report an increase in residential mortgage lending.
 The pattern in the Cleveland district, where builders said that ''residential construction has yet to bottom out,'' was more the norm. 

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Mixed Growth in Most Regions'' A roundup of regional economic conditions for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed yesterday. Data are for April 26-June 4 MINNEAPOLIS Economic growth was steady, led by gains in consumer spending, construction and tourism, among others. SAN FRANCISCO (Includes Alaska and Hawaii) The economy grew at a moderate rate. Labor compensation also remained moderate despite a tight labor market. CHICAGO Business reported modest growth, though housing weakened. Manufacturing was sluggish and energy costs increased. CLEVELAND Moderate economic growth. Auto sales declined. April. New home sales increased slightly. BOSTON High transportation cost raised concerns in both the retail and tourism industries. NEW YORK Economic expansion continued, though the labor market tightened. Retail sales and selling prices were steady. PHILADELPHIA The economy improved. Manufactures reported increased orders and shipments. Auto sales remained below average. RICHMOND, VA. Economic activity increased slightly in April and May. Manufacturers, retail and housing sectors weakened. ATLANTA Manufacturing improved with the announcement of new plants and expansions in the steel and auto industry. ST. LOUIS Year-over-year retail and auto sales increased. Manufacturing did not present a clear picture, while home sales were mixed. KANSAS CITY, MO. High energy prices limited consumer spending. Manufacturing strengthened, while housing remained weak. DALLAS Manufacturing and service sectors reported expansion, though housing weakend. Commercial building increased. (Source by Bloomberg News) Map of the United States highlighting cities listed above. Chart: ''Retail Sales'' Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted. May: +1.4% April: -0.1 March: +1.0 Graph tracks total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted, since 2005. (Source by Commerce Department) Chart: ''Inventory-Sales Ratio'' Total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted. Graph tracks total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted, since 2006. Business Inventories and Sales Trillions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. MARCH Inventories: $1.394 Sales: 1.093 APRIL Inventories: $1.399 Sales: 1.100 (Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BONDS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); BOND MARKETS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (70%); CONSTRUCTION TRADE (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); RETAIL SALES (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (64%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (61%); INTEREST RATES (55%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (77%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



258 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
 HOSPITAL CARE CHARGES -- Stark evidence that high medical payments do not necessarily buy high-quality patient care is presented in a Pennsylvania hospital study. Of the hospitals that perform heart bypass surgery, the best-paid hospital received nearly $100,000 for the operation while the least-paid got less than $20,000. Both facilities had comparable lengths of stay and death rates. [Page A1.] SCALPING GOES PRO -- Some sports teams no longer provide paper tickets to their season-ticket holders, who instead simply swipe a credit card or driver's license to enter the arena. The electronic ticket systems have an important side benefit: they allow the team to control, and get a fee from, any reselling of a ticket. 
[C1.] KELLOGG TO CURB SOME ADS -- The Kellogg Company said that it would phase out advertising its products to children under age 12 unless the foods meet specific nutrition guidelines for calories, sugar, fat and sodium. Kellogg also announced that it would stop using licensed characters or branded toys to promote foods unless the products meet the nutrition guidelines. [C1.] SENATORS SEEK TO PENALIZE CHINA -- Four leading Democratic and Republican senators proposed legislation aimed at imposing penalties on China over its export practices and predicted that they would have the votes to pass it in Congress this year even if it was vetoed by President Bush. The Bush administration indicated it would oppose the bill, which appeared certain to aggravate tensions with China at a time when Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., above, has sought to use negotiation to change Chinese economic policies. [C1.] TEXT MESSAGES ON WALL STREET -- Wall Street's two self-policing groups are expected to release proposed guidelines for the regulation of written electronic communications, including internal and external exchanges, in rules that will probably cover text messages carried over cellphones, BlackBerrys and other devices. [C3.] PANEL REJECTS ANTI-OBESITY DRUG -- A drug made by Sanofi-Aventis that was once viewed as a possible magic bullet against obesity was rejected by a federal advisory panel because of worries that it causes neurological and psychiatric problems and increases the risk of suicide. [C3.] BANKS INDICTED IN PARMALAT CASE -- An Italian judge ordered Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley and UBS to stand trial on charges of market manipulation in the events that led to the multibillion-dollar bankruptcy filing of the Italian dairy company Parmalat in 2003. [C8.] THE GENUINE ARTICLE ON eBAY -- The online auction giant eBay says new rules to curb fraud have resulted in a 60 percent decline in the number of complaints from luxury goods makers that counterfeits of their products are being sold on the site. It also says that in the last four months it has banished tens of thousands of sellers who did not meet new, elevated standards. But other companies still complain about piracy on eBay. [C9.] Google and eBay got into a tussle at eBay's convention in Boston this week, when Google invited the auction site's sellers to a party to promote Google Checkout, a service that competes with eBay's PayPal. [C9.] TALKS TO SELL BARNEYS -- The Jones Apparel Group is close to an agreement to sell Barneys New York, the fashionable clothing retailer, for about $825 million to the investment arm of the Dubai government, people involved in the talks said. [C1.] STARS AND STRIPES AND G.M. -- ''Buy American'' has always been an undercurrent in General Motors' advertising, but the theme has been showing up more forcefully of late, as G.M. uses the one adjective that competitors like Toyota and Honda cannot use. Advertising. [C5.] A VIDEO SITE IN THE POLITICAL ARENA -- YouTube, which is owned by Google, and CNN are co-sponsoring a debate among the eight Democratic presidential candidates next month, with questions asked via videos submitted by people through YouTube. The debate is a reflection of YouTube's impact on politics. [A26.] DEBATE OVER BLOGGING AT A GAME -- The eviction of a newspaper reporter from a baseball press box for blogging about a game while it was in progress has stirred a debate over legal questions surrounding First Amendment rights, intellectual property rights and contract law. [D5.] NBC IN HIGH SCHOOL -- NBC News will announce an online educational venture, intended as a supplement to high school courses in American history, government and English, that draws heavily on its film archives, as well as on its journalists. [E3.] PRIVATE FORESTS AT RISK -- Conservationists are concerned that large tracts of the nation's private forests are at risk of falling into mismanagement, being subdivided or being sold for development as aging landowners pass the land to heirs or buyers. Small Business. [C6.] RETAIL REPORT BOLSTERS SHARES -- Stocks surged, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average to its biggest gain in almost 11 months, after the bond market rallied and a report on retail sales exceeded economists' estimates. [C15.] ONLINE Business Briefing Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business. A HOUSE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN said at a hearing that he would seek legislation to curb lending abuses if the central bank did not act quickly to do so. (AP) LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS said it would merge two residential mortgage units, BNC Mortgage and Aurora Loan Services, and cut 400 jobs. (REUTERS) THE CERIDIAN CORPORATION, the human resources company whose biggest shareholder, William A. Ackman, regards a $5.3 billion takeover bid as too low, said it would be prepared to consider other plans to sell itself. (REUTERS)

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks the daily closing price of eBay shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (89%); NUTRITION (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); BARIATRICS (77%); AUCTIONS (75%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); OBESITY (72%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (72%); SPORTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); VETO (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); TOYS & GAMES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); DRIVERS LICENSES (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); TEXT MESSAGING (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); DIETING (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); LITIGATION (64%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (64%); COUNTERFEITING (60%); SUICIDE (60%); JUDGES (60%)

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (84%); EBAY INC (81%); SANOFI SA (63%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); PARMALAT SPA (52%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (84%); EBAY (NASDAQ) (81%); SNY (NYSE) (63%); SANF (BIT) (63%); SAN (PAR) (63%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (63%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); PLT (BIT) (52%); DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%); MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (84%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (84%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (84%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (81%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (81%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (52%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (52%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



259 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Family Forestry

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

 BODY:
There is a crisis brewing in America's vast forest lands, but it has little to do with the health of the woods: the acreage is essentially the same as it was a century ago, and there is over 30 percent more wood volume per acre than in 1952. 
 At stake are large tracts of private forest that are at risk of falling into mismanagement, subdivision or being sold for development.
''It's a ticking time bomb'' said Brett J. Butler, a research forester with the United States Forest Service Family Forest Research Center in Amherst, Mass. He says the situation could jeopardize things like the wood used to build homes, jobs, and clean water and fresh air. 
 Nearly 60 percent of the nation's forests are privately owned, the majority by families and individuals and most of these owners are 55 or older. A huge swath of forest land is about to change hands as aging landowners pass the land to heirs or buyers. 
 ''Without a doubt, it is the largest intergenerational transfer of forest land in our nation's history,'' said Al Sample, president of the Pinchot Institute for Conservation, a nonprofit environmental policy research organization, ''and we are not ready for it.'' Already, he said, forest land is rapidly disappearing. ''We're losing four acres a minute; were not talking about the Amazon here.''
 The institute, in cooperation with the Forest Service, recently completed a survey of the next generation of family forest owners and found that heirs who will inherit the land are often professionals living far away in cities, have weak bonds to the land, and have little involvement in management of family forests.
 High taxes were a top reason heirs cited as deterrents to keeping the land. ''The first time Wal-Mart or a developer makes an offer, they are going to take it,'' Mr. Sample said. ''They often feel that they have no choice.'' 
 Steve Presley remembers spending time growing up on land his father owned in Palestine in East Texas: watching the sun go down, listening to the crickets, frogs and coyotes and picking blackberries with his high school sweetheart. (The bushes are still there, and the girl is now his wife of some 30 years.)
 But Mr. Presley, who now owns the land, worries that high inheritance and property taxes may prevent future generations from experiencing similar pleasures. ''My children are faced with selling part of the property to pay for taxes.'' 
 Subdividing the land is a major obstacle to practicing responsible forestry, said Edward Steigerwaldt, president of the Association of Consulting Foresters. Parcels must be a certain size to harvest economically and to sustain water quality and wildlife habitats. 
 Mr. Presley harvests much of his 750 acres, but said that increased regulations and negative public opinion make tree farming difficult. In recent years landowners have been criticized for cutting down trees. 
 ''Trees are absolutely the best way to take carbon out of the atmosphere,'' Mr. Presley said. ''What environmentalists don't understand is that as trees get really, really big, the growth rate goes down. Slow growth results in less carbon absorption.'' Harvesting mature trees and replanting younger, faster growing trees ''helps the small forest owner and the environment.''
 Laurence D. Wiseman, president and chief executive of the American Forest Foundation, a nonprofit conservation organization, said private forest owners played a critical role in protecting water and air quality and habitats for rare and endangered animals. 
 ''They preserve the environment, but don't get credit for it. Seventy percent of the Eastern watershed flows through family forests -- all outside of public view,'' he said. '' It's a paradox. The public enjoys the benefits but don't help pay any costs.'' 
 Mr. Wiseman and others in the industry hope the reauthorization of the 2007 Farm Bill currently being drafted by the House Agriculture Committee will provide incentive programs to help family forest owners bear the costs of maintaining their lands.
 A recent national poll conducted for the Nature Conservancy found that most Americans incorrectly believe that the federal government owns most forests. But when respondents were informed that families and individuals did, they expressed strong support for protecting private forestland. The survey of 1001 registered voters was conducted by telephone in February 2007. 
 ''There has been little Farm Bill funding for family forest landowners in the past,'' said Louise Milkman, director for federal programs at the Nature Conservancy, even though ''family forests are a large part of the working rural landscape.''
 The Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight, Nutrition, and Forestry is expected to consider provisions today, and the full House Agriculture Committee is taking the matter up the last week of June. 
 Lack of communication among family members is a common problem.
 ''Families resist talking about death and dying; it's like going to the dentist,'' said Thom J. McEvoy, a professor and extension forester at the University of Vermont who has studied this issue. When family members do not discuss matters, or disagree, ''the path of least resistance'' is often taken, which is selling part or all of the land. 
 Wayne Rivers, president of the Family Business Institute, a consulting firm in Raleigh, N.C., who serves as a consultant to an industry association, said many families ''see the land as something more than a business, as a family legacy, but it is still a business.'' As a result, they do not take measures like estate and succession planning. ''Most are woefully unprepared,'' he said.
 But programs to help families are becoming more common.
 Stephen Whitfield, executive director of NCWoodlands, a nonprofit group in North Carolina, affiliated with the National Woodland Owners Association, runs workshops in cooperation with the State University extension service, ''to give people tools to be able to keep land if they want to''
 One of them, Women in the Woods, is geared to widows, who often find themselves in charge of land unexpectedly when their husbands die, Mr. Whitfield said. 
 Some programs focus on exploring revenue sources beyond timber.
 The Forest Service has links and information on its Web site (www.na.fs.fed.us/stewardship/estate/estate.shtml) on tax and estate planning options as conservation easements, which let landowners maintain ownership but provide monetary payments and ensure that the land will remain intact.
 Peter and Jane Revesz, 78 and 72, respectively, are planning for the transition of their 560 acres in Clark County, Wash., which has been in the family for over half a century.
 Their hope is that their son, Mike Revesz, 46, an engineering scientist living in Austin, Tex., and their daughter, Sandra Revesz, 49, a nurse living in Seattle, will become third-generation managers. 
 Both Revesz children participated in the Pinchot study several years ago, but at the time had no concrete plans in place. ''I think it made us start thinking,'' Sandra Revesz said. Both she and her brother have since realized the importance of the land as a family legacy.
 ''My parents have worked hard to take a very realistic approach, producing enough income to make the land pay for itself,'' Mike Revesz said.
 The family gathered in January to use a Ties to the Land program offered by Oregon State University that provides exercises and worksheets to guide families in shifting land from one generation to the next. 
 ''The materials helped us all talk through issues,'' Mike Revesz said,to avoid being overwhelmed at a later date. The family plans to keep the land as a working tree farm.
 In 2002, when Carolyn Vassar Pickett's mother died, she seriously considered selling the family land in Marengo County, Ala. 
 But a childhood friend encouraged her to contact the National Network of Forest Practitioners, a clearinghouse for information and technical assistance. ''That was the catalyst that changed my mind,'' said Mrs. Pickett, now 59, who travels between Chicago and Selma, Ala., to manage the land. 
 Several years later she created Women in Land Ownership, a nonprofit organization that offers financial and legal advice to help landowners keep their property. One recent member was encouraged to harvest timber to help finance a child's college education; another was ''being coerced to sell mineral rights,'' she said, but with the organization's help, was introduced to a lawyer who specializes in land law.
 Her motivation comes from her father, a skilled laborer who bought the land when she was child. He died 14 years ago. ''He always said: 'Man can create houses and man can create businesses. But God created the land, and he won't create any more in our lifetime.' '' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jane Revesz, left, and Pete Revesz, far right, of Clark County, Wash., are planning for the transition of their 560 acres, which have been in the family for more than half a century. (Photo by Julie Keefe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); LAND SUBDIVISION (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HISTORY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); CHILDREN (76%); MAMMALS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



260 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: REVERED MOSQUE IN IRAQ IS BOMBED FOR SECOND TIME

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS; Reporting was contributed by Alissa J. Rubin, Damien Cave, Ali Adeeb, Khalid al-Ansary and Karim Hilmi from Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Samarra, Hilla and Basra.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, June 13 

 BODY:
Two explosions on Wednesday that appeared to have been set by Sunni extremists with links to Al Qaeda toppled the twin golden minarets that were most of what remained of one of Iraq's most revered Shiite shrines after a devastating bombing by Al Qaeda last year.
 That bombing 16 months ago proved a watershed, engulfing the country in a wave of sectarian killing that pushed Sunnis and Shiites toward civil war. With American and Iraqi forces unable to restrain soaring levels of killing that saw as many as 3,000 Iraqi civilians dying every month by the end of 2006, President Bush ordered nearly 30,000 additional American troops deployed here, aimed at pulling the country back from the abyss.
But after Wednesday's renewed attack on the shrine at Samarra, 75 miles north of Baghdad, appeals for calm by Shiite political and religious leaders, as well as by moderate Sunni politicians and the top two American officials in Iraq, appeared to have headed off the risk of a new sectarian convulsion, at least for now. 
 By nightfall, with emergency curfews in Baghdad and several other cities, and Iraqi forces moving in to protect mosques across the country, there were only scattered reports of reprisal attacks. 
 The new attack on the shrine came at what American commanders acknowledged to be a now-or-never point in the war here, with only months for the fresh troops deployed here to begin driving down insurgent attacks. Without significant progress by September, when the top American military commander here is to report to the president and Congress, the generals appear to have little prospect of holding off pressure at home for withdrawal.
 The Samarra bombing appeared to be aimed at derailing the American hopes for a turnaround by setting off renewed Shiite reprisals and refocusing the conflict on sectarian tensions, away from recent infighting between Sunni tribal groups and the Sunni insurgents who have links to Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia. 
 The explosions that destroyed the 120-foot-high minarets of the Askariya shrine occurred about 9 a.m. A statement by the American military command, quoting the Iraqi police, said that they ''did not see any attackers in the vicinity,'' suggesting that the bombings were an inside job.
 Suspicion fell immediately on the guards protecting the shrine, a unit of a few dozen local men, almost all Sunnis, the population group that predominates in Samarra and has controlled the shrine since it was built in 1905. American and Iraqi commanders in the area had suspected the guard force of harboring Qaeda sympathizers.
 Iraqis shopping in a local market said they heard the explosions, ran to look toward the shrine and saw as a cloud of dust and debris cleared that the minarets, used traditionally as the place from which Muslims are called to prayer, had vanished.
 The bombings left the shrine, its soaring golden dome destroyed in the initial attack in February last year, with little left of its former grandeur but rubble overlooked by a blue-tiled archway and a golden clock tower. The mosque is located atop what is said to have been the burial site, in the 9th-century A.D., of two of the 12 imams, the apostles of the Shiite faith. 
 Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, a Shiite who heads a fractious and increasingly dysfunctional coalition government of Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds, said in a hastily prepared television address from Baghdad that he had ordered the arrest of ''all officials who were responsible for guarding the holy shrine.'' Reports from Samarra said that at least 15 members of the guard force, most of them nominally employees of the Interior Ministry, were detained.
 Mr. Maliki later flew to the site aboard an American military helicopter accompanied by Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the second-ranking American commander in Iraq. 
 A statement by Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker and Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American officials in Iraq, described the attack as a new effort by Al Qaeda to provoke sectarian conflict. Putting a positive construction on an event that appeared to have shaken the Americans more than any event in recent months, the two officials said, ''It is an act of desperation by an increasingly beleaguered enemy seeking to obstruct the peaceful political and economic development of a democratic Iraq.''
 Across the main war zones, American formations bolstered by the troop increase are reaching full operational readiness for what the commanders have described as a summer offensive against Qaeda-linked insurgents and Shiite death squads. But the commanders have spoken of intelligence reports pointing to plans by Al Qaeda for a ''catastrophic'' attack similar to the one at Samarra last year, setting off a new round of mass sectarian killings, driving a deeper wedge between Sunnis and Shiites and thwarting American hopes for greater stability.
 The insurgents appeared to have chosen a target that was relatively accessible, but less powerful in its potential impact on Iraq's majority Shiite population than a strike on one of the major shrines elsewhere.
 Apart from the Samarra site, Iraq's Shiites have shrines of transcending significance in the Baghdad district of Kadhimiya and in Karbala and Najaf. All have been the targets of foiled attacks this year.
 One attack, on April 28, killed 58 people and wounded nearly 170 only a few hundred yards from the Imam Abbas shrine in Karbala. Two weeks before that, another car bomb in Karbala exploded near the Imam Hussain shrine, killing 36 people and wounding nearly 170. There have been dozens of other attacks on lesser Shiite shrines, killing scores.
 On Wednesday Shiite leaders called for restraint -- a plea that went largely unheeded last year after the first bombing at the shrine. Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, Iraq's most revered Shiite religious leader, asked Shiites to ''stay calm and avoid any retaliatory actions that target the innocent and the sacred places of others.''
 Perhaps equally important, the young Shiite cleric who has been a turbulent force in Iraqi politics, Moktada al-Sadr, issued a statement calling on Shiites not to strike back. His followers were implicated in many of the reprisal attacks after the first bombing. Characteristically, he based his appeal on an interpretation of the latest attack that made villains not of the Sunnis, but of the United States and Israel, whom he accused or organizing the bombing. ''The Iraqi people should know that there is no Sunni, and no Muslim, who would attack a shrine that is the burial place of our two imams,'' he said.
 The authorities imposed indefinite curfews in several major cities, including Baghdad, the southern oil hub of Basra, the mixed Sunni-Shiite city of Hilla in south-central Iraq and Karbala and Najaf. 
 American troop reinforcements requested by Prime Minister Maliki effectively sealed off Samarra, and the police fired in the air to disperse Shiite demonstrators gathered near the shrine in the aftermath of the bombing. Witnesses reported American fighter jets roaring low over rooftops, a tactic often used when American commanders, lacking enough troops to dominate a trouble spot, need to deter potential attacks.
 Within hours of the bombing, there were reports of scattered attacks on Sunni mosques in Baghdad, Basra and other cities. In Baghdad, the police said Shiite gunmen set fire to a Sunni mosque in the Baya district, and they reported attacks on three other neighborhood mosques. 
 In Basra, with a heavyShiite majority, police said three Sunni mosques came under sporadic fire from groups of masked gunmen. In Khalis, a town in Diyala Province about 40 miles north of Baghdad, the police reported the bombing of a small Shiite shrine. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: 2004 Shiite Pilgrims often traveled to Samarra to visit the Askariya shrine and its golden dome. The mosque is located atop what is said to have been the burial site of 2 of the 12 imams, the apostles of the Shiite faith. (Photo by Khalid Mohammed/Associated Press)
2007 Another set of explosions ripped through the ruins of the mosque yesterday, destroying the golden minarets, and now only the clock tower is standing. The mosque's guards, who are Sunni, are the main suspects.
 2006 Sunni militants destroyed the dome in February, and the ensuing violence set Iraq on the course toward civil war. The shrine's two minarets still stood, as did the clock tower, just behind the minaret on the left. (Photographs by Hameed Rasheed/Associated Press)(pg. A12) Map of Iraq highlighting Samarra: The mosque attacked in Samarra is a revered Shiite shrine. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); BOMBINGS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (76%); POLITICS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); POLICE FORCES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



261 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Another Spin for 'Buy American'

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
GENERAL MOTORS has clearly been hurt by consumers who simply refuse to buy an American brand of vehicle. But the automaker has decided to use its heritage as a competitive advantage rather than a weakness, since it is one adjective that competitors like Toyota and Honda cannot use.
 ''Buy American'' has always been an undercurrent in G.M.'s advertising, but the theme has been showing up more forcefully of late. This spring General Motors has run three marketing campaigns centered on its American roots. 
''Even the staunchest American- car rejecter is rooting for American cars,'' said Eric Hirshberg, president of Deutsch Los Angeles, the advertising agency behind the current campaign for G.M.'s Saturn brand. ''They just don't think they're good enough quality, or they're set against them for whatever reason. But everybody in this country has an affinity for American cars and wants to get behind them.''
 Deutsch, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, developed the slogan ''Rethink American'' for Saturn; the campaign, which began running about a month ago, includes television, print, online and billboard components. Saturn itself was introduced by G.M. in 1990 to lure buyers who were considering an import brand. 
 These days, however, some Saturn vehicles are not particularly American. They are largely based on Opel models that are designed and sold in Europe, and some of the cars sold in the United States are manufactured abroad. Yet Saturn has been enjoying significantly higher sales thanks to its new lineup.
 In addition, G.M.'s redesigned full-size pickup truck, the Chevrolet Silverado, is featured in patriotic spots set to the John Mellencamp ballad ''Our Country.'' The ads, created by Campbell-Ewald, a unit of Interpublic, tie into Chevrolet's tagline, ''An American revolution.''
 In May, G.M. drew attention to a Memorial Day sale at Buick, Pontiac and G.M.C. dealerships with ads thanking American soldiers and offering to collect letters for the troops overseas. And last fall, G.M. signed on the conservative radio host Sean Hannity for a promotion called the Great American Car Giveaway.
 Despite these patriotic appeals, a G.M. spokeswoman, Ryndee Carney, said the company is trying to play up its vehicles' amenities more than their heritage.
 ''You see more of our advertising talking specifically about the product and the brand as opposed to 'We're American,' '' Ms. Carney said.
 Saturn's ads highlight safety features, fuel economy and critical acclaim. Still, each spot ensures that consumers know that the brand is American.
 Mr. Hirshberg of Deutsch described the campaign as ''the opposite of a buy-American campaign,'' noting that a newspaper ad for the Aura sedan begins: ''Don't buy it because it's American. Buy it because it's amazing.''
 The ads are meant to persuade consumers that Saturn has improved considerably since it began selling entry-level vehicles and that the brand should prompt people with low opinions of American vehicles to take another look.
 '' 'Rethink American' is not a patriotism campaign,'' Mr. Hirshberg said. ''It's a 'rethink your rejection of American' campaign.''
 Although Saturn's sales have been rising, G.M. will have difficulty persuading people who have spurned American vehicles that they have improved, said Jim Hossack, a consultant with AutoPacific in Tustin, Calif.
 ''The stigma is still there. Is the reality still there? I'm not really sure,'' Mr. Hossack said. ''There's still a negative connotation coming from decades of products that proved in the end to have quality, reliability and durability less than the leading Japanese imports'.''
 G.M. is not the only American automaker that has been playing up its roots. Ford Motor tries to rally its employees around the slogan ''Red, White and Bold,'' and Ford executives talk of the company's goal to ''embody the American spirit'' and to become ''America's car company.''
 In addition, Ford is a prominent sponsor of the ''American Idol'' singing competition on the Fox network.
 Even as At Ford and G.M. are waving the flag, so, too are some of the foreign automakers that have plants in the United States. Mark Fields, the president of Ford's Americas division, has criticized Toyota for ''desperately trying to cast itself as an American brand'' to appeal to patriotic shoppers. At last year's Los Angeles auto show, Mr. Fields said, ''Americans really do want to buy American brands -- as long as we're competitive with the imports.''
 Mr. Hossack said patriotism alone was not enough for G.M. and Ford to regain any of the market share that they have lost to Toyota, Honda and others. Still, that they are American companies could work in their favor, he said.
 ''I don't see a whole lot of patriotism, but I do see a sort of rooting for the underdog,'' Mr. Hossack said. ''For decades G.M., Ford and Chrysler had such a dominant position that the underdog was the imports. But they may have inverted their position. Detroit may now be the underdog.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Saturn's ''Rethink American'' campaign is ''the opposite of a buy-American campaign,'' says Eric Hirshberg of Deutsch, which created the ads. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); SEDANS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (71%); PICKUP TRUCKS (69%)

COMPANY: SATURN CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); CAMPBELL-EWALD CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); IPG (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



262 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: 4 in Senate Seek Penalty For China

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13 

 BODY:
Four leading Democratic and Republican senators proposed legislation Wednesday aimed at penalizing China over its export practices and predicted that they would have the votes to pass it in Congress this year even if it was vetoed by President Bush.
 The administration indicated it would oppose the bill, which appeared certain to aggravate tensions with China at a time when Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has sought to use negotiations to change Chinese economic policies, particularly those keeping the value of its currency low in relation to the dollar.
The legislation would set up an elaborate mechanism to punish China if it did not change its policy of intervening in currency markets to keep the exchange value of the currency, the yuan, low. Such low Chinese currency rates are a spur to exports by making them cheaper for foreign consumers..
 One of the four senators, Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, said, ''This bill requires the Treasury Department to take firm but fair action when other nations play games with the U.S. dollar.'' He said the bill would pass by ''a veto-proof majority in the House and Senate.'' 
 Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the ranking Republican on the Finance Committee, said that the bill was not intended to start a fight with China and that he hoped it would persuade the Chinese to voluntarily change their practices before any penalties were imposed.
 Senators Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, were also co-sponsors. They had sponsored a tougher version of the bill last year, calling for tariff increases of 27 percent on Chinese goods if the authorities in Beijing did not raise the value of their currency.
 That legislation was withdrawn under pressure from the administration, and Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham acknowledged that its mechanism for imposing duties on Chinese goods would have violated international trade rules. They said the new bill would lead to penalties while complying with the rules.
 Mr. Paulson was briefed on the bill but issued no comment. Clay Lowery, the Treasury Department's acting under secretary for international affairs, indicated that the administration would resist it as likely to increase tensions with Beijing.
 ''We believe that the best way to engage China on these issues is through dialogue and negotiations, and not necessarily through legislation,'' Mr. Lowery told reporters at a briefing accompanying a separate Treasury action on China, a report released Wednesday assessing its currency practices.
 The new legislation is one of several bills aimed at Beijing and introduced in the House and the Senate at a time of mounting criticism over Chinese economic policies that have promoted exports and restricted Chinese markets for foreign investment and goods.
 The United States trade deficit with China last year was $232 billion, about a third of the total American deficit with its trading partners. After years of accumulating trade surpluses, the Chinese are sitting on an estimated $1.4 trillion in foreign exchange, and have started to use some of that vast reserve to purchase American companies, including a stake in the Blackstone Group last month.
 Administration officials say that Mr. Paulson, a former Goldman Sachs executive who for years conducted business deals in China, has repeatedly warned the Beijing authorities to expect anti-China legislation if they did not open their economy more to outside investment and imports, and make more progress in letting the currency float more freely.
 ''We have told the Chinese that there will be legislation on China,'' an administration official said, declining to be further identified. ''Our hope is to work with Congress to make sure it does not damage relations with China.''
 Mr. Paulson helped persuade Mr. Schumer and Mr. Grassley last year, arguing that the cabinet-level ''strategic economic dialogue'' with the Chinese he and colleagues recently conducted was a better way of bringing about change.
 Chinese and American officials met in Beijing in December and last month in Washington to move the process along, but with limited results.
 The bill announced on Wednesday reflected a widespread feeling in Congress that Mr. Paulson's approach had failed, especially on the currency matter. Mr. Paulson said last month that the dialogue was aimed at achieving long-term reforms in China, though he praised the Chinese for taking some limited steps in the short term. 
 In issuing a separate, semiannual report to Congress on exchange rate policies of American trading partners, the administration took the same position it had in the past -- that China did not meet the ''technical requirements'' of being labeled a currency ''manipulator,'' a label that could bring sanctions.
 Mr. Lowery said that it had been hard to assign motives to Chinese currency practices and therefore impossible to label China a manipulator. But the Treasury's report said it had forcefully raised the question of currency values ''at every available opportunity and will continue to do so.'' 
 It repeated accusations by Mr. Paulson and others that China's rapid economic growth reflected a ''severely unbalanced'' economy driven by exports and policies that discouraged domestic consumption.
 The currency report, which the law requires every six months, contained no surprises, nor was it a surprise that Democrats and Republicans denounced the administration for not labeling China a manipulator. The same criticism came from manufacturers' groups critical of Chinese trade and investment barriers.
 China critics cite a range of impediments to trade and investment, but the main focus of Congressional anger has been on the value of the yuan. Beijing has acknowledged that it must change its currency practices, but has appealed for patience. 
 The yuan's value has appreciated by about 8 percent in relation to the dollar since July 2005. But many economists say that if it were allowed to float in the open market, it would appreciate by at least 20 percent to 30 percent. Instead, China uses its export revenue to buy dollars so that the value of the yuan is seen as artificially low.
 European leaders have also begun warning China over its trade and currency practices. Peter Mandelson, the European Union's trade commissioner, said last week that China was ''at a crossroads'' in its economic relations with the West.
 The Bush administration, while trying mostly to use persuasion in getting China to change its economic practices, has moved toward a harder line in the last six months. Early in the year, the administration threatened new tariffs, arguing that China was illegally subsidizing some exports.
 It has also taken China to court proceedings at the World Trade Organization, contending that its policies on subsidies and on the protection of copyrights and trademarks are illegal. 
 These actions have drawn a reaction from Chinese officials, who warn that they would only strengthen the hand of hard-line elements.
 World Trade Organization rules bar protectionist measures except under some limited circumstances. The legislation proposed by Senators Baucus, Grassley, Schumer and Graham was intended to let the United States define currency practices as a form of ''dumping,'' or selling goods below cost.
 Countries belonging to the trade organization may impose duties on imports if they are dumped, but it was not clear whether the legislation would meet the W.T.O.'s definition.
 The legislation would require the Treasury Department to report on ''fundamentally misaligned currencies'' that would require ''priority action'' leading to consultations with the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization. If these talks failed, certain penalties would kick in.
 Among these would be curbing China's voting rights at the I.M.F., limiting federal procurement of Chinese goods and services, and opposing United States government-backed loans or World Bank lending for China. The president could waive these penalties on carefully defined national security grounds, but Congress could register its disapproval of any such waiver. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: An official in Ningbo, China, watched as containers were loaded onto a vessel. Much of the country's surging economy is powered by exports. (Photo by Michael Reynolds/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); VETO (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US DOLLAR (75%); EXCHANGE RATES (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (78%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



263 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam's Leader Wants U.S. Visit to Be All Business

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, June 13 

 BODY:
Bracing himself for criticism over Vietnam's human rights record, President Nguyen Minh Triet said Wednesday that he would keep his eye firmly on trade and investment when he visited the United States next week.
 Mr. Triet, the first Vietnamese head of state to visit Washington since the Vietnam War ended 32 years ago, is a longtime proponent of his country's economic liberalization and integration into the world economy.
 In an interview at the presidential palace, Mr. Triet said he would meet with President Bush, as well as members of Congress and business executives, to lobby for tighter economic ties. 
 ''We really want the United States to increase its investment in terms of high technology in Vietnam,'' he said, ''and we want the United States to create favorable conditions for Vietnamese goods in the United States market.''
 He bristled, though, over recent criticisms of the arrests and trials of several dissidents that threaten to overshadow the broader positive relations that have made visits like this one less and less remarkable.
 ''Vietnam has experienced war and understands well the loss of human rights and freedom,'' he said. ''Therefore, we really love the fundamental rights of man and respect human rights. But if anyone violates the law we have to punish them.''
 Since Vietnam, a nation of about 84 million people, gained increased visibility as the host of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum last fall, it has rounded up many dissidents, most recently sentencing two activist lawyers to long jail terms last month.
 The White House said President Bush would ''express his deep concern'' over the issue, and some critics of Vietnam in the United States had lobbied to cancel the visit.
 The visit is all the more significant given the opposition it faced, several Vietnamese and foreign analysts said.
 ''It strengthens the hands of the outward-looking, reform types in the government,'' said Jonathan Pincus, the senior country economist for the United Nations Development Program. ''It shows Vietnam that the United States is a reliable and mature partner. That is hugely important to Vietnam.''
 One strong motivation to proceed for both sides is a desire to cement their relationship in the context of the growing political and economic weight of Vietnam's northern neighbor, China.
 Le Dang Doanh, a leading economist, said: ''It is very important that the visit could take place because if not, the big neighbors to the north could try to push harder on Vietnam. And this is not good for the stability of the region and not good at all for Vietnam.''
 Vietnam has carefully balanced its relations between the United States and China, and in advance of his trip to Washington, Mr. Triet visited Beijing last month.
 ''The two countries have a common target to build socialism,'' he said in the interview, explaining his trip to Beijing. ''Therefore, we want to enhance cooperation in many areas with China. As you know, China is a nation that goes further than Vietnam, so Vietnam wants to learn from China's lessons in development.''
 The United States is Vietnam's largest trading partner, with an increasing two-way trade that rose to $7.8 billion in 2005, from $1.5 billion in 2001, according to Vietnamese government figures.
 But Mr. Triet said he would lobby for more high-technology investment, saying American investment still lags as bilateral ties have developed.
 ''Now trade and investment-relations development is not commensurate with the politics of the two countries,'' he said.
 The United States ended a trade embargo in 1994 and established diplomatic relations with Vietnam the next year. In 2001, the two nations signed a trade agreement that was called the final step in postwar normalization of relations.
 In January, with strong support from the United States, Vietnam officially joined the World Trade Organization.
 The bilateral relationship has flourished in areas that include trade and business, military contacts, education and health care issues like bird flu and H.I.V./AIDS.
 But last year, Vietnam listed the United States as only its 11th largest foreign investor with licensed projects whose total capital was $1.7 billion.
 As relations have progressed, high-level exchanges have multiplied, from President Clinton's highly popular visit here in 2000 to a flurry of visitors last year that included President Bush, Donald H. Rumsfeld, then the secretary of defense, and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. 
 Vietnam's prime minister and defense minister have both visited the United States.
 Mr. Triet himself is seen as one of the outward-looking members of the Vietnamese hierarchy.
 A southerner who was party chief in Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon, he is known for his innovations in supporting private enterprise and foreign investment.
 He made his reputation as the chief of what is now Binh Duong Province, a land-locked area just north of Ho Chi Minh City with few advantages for development.
 By relaxing conditions for private and foreign investment at a time when these were new and controversial policies, he created what is now one of the most prosperous regions in the country, a magnet for both business and labor.
 ''He broke the mold,'' said Mr. Pincus, the United Nations economist. ''He was able to change the way things are governed. So he has street cred among reformers.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Policemen near a courthouse last month in Hanoi, where two lawyers were sentenced to prison for their political activities. Vietnam's president said his visit to Washington should focus on trade, not human rights. (Photo by Tran Van Minh/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); LOBBYING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SENTENCING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); LAWYERS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (66%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%) VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (92%); VIETNAM (90%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



264 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: The Loose Reins on U.S. Teenagers Can Produce Trouble or Entrepreneurs

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is professor of economics at George Mason University and author of the forthcoming book ''Discover Your Inner Economist.'' He can be reached at tcowen@gmu.edu

 BODY:
Michael S. Dell (of Dell Inc.) sold stamps to collectors when he was 12 and Bill Gates founded Microsoft when he was 19. Facebook, the social networking site, was the brainchild of Mark Zuckerberg, a Harvard University sophomore at the time. A study by the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor showed that the United States was unusual among developed countries in having a higher business start-up rate among its 18- to 24-year-olds than its 35- to 44-year-olds. 
 But why has America produced so many successful young entrepreneurs? Ben Casnocha, 19, author of the new book ''My Start-Up Life: What a (Very) Young C.E.O. Learned on His Journey Through Silicon Valley,'' offers clues. 
As he recounts in his book, Ben was 14 when he started Comcate Inc., a Web-based service for helping local governments manage customer service. He called on numerous mentors, many of them initially strangers or casual acquaintances. Some talented and busy people, presumably impressed by the young man, decided to support his enterprise. He also asked for outright grants to get his business off the ground and to help finance his version of the American dream. 
 American youths are so successful at entrepreneurship in part because so many older and wealthier people are willing to help them. The broader American success at philanthropy, then, lays the groundwork for American entrepreneurship. By global standards, Americans may have looser networks of friends and family, but Americans are more willing to help relative strangers, and this often helps business. 
 America's culture of marketing provided inspiration. Ben Casnocha surveyed his future customers and asked them what services they needed and how much they were willing to pay. He also had to persuade people to do business with a teenager. He had no formal education in marketing but, as a suburban American youth, he was exposed to intense commercial marketing every day. He decided to become an entrepreneur at the age of 12, he says, after being struck by the Apple ''Think Different'' ad. Critics contend that corporate selling and advertising are dumbing down America's young. But marketing often motivates or instructs young people. In addition, it can teach them how to think about marketing messages more critically. 
 The fact that American schooling is less disciplined than that in other countries gives young creators the time and the energy to accomplish something outside their formal education. Despite his intellectual talents, Ben, in his book, admits that he received indifferent grades and had little emotional attachment to most of his formal schooling. Whenever he could, he used sick days to set up meetings for his business. 
 The longstanding criticism of the American school system is that even in the better schools, too many students just ''get by'' rather than engage in a rigorous curriculum. This academic leniency is bad for many average or subpar students, but it also allows some students to flourish. Relatively loose family structures have similar effects; American children are especially likely to be working on their own projects, rather than being directed by parents and elders. 
 Compared with those in other countries, American children play a much more influential role in society and enjoy a remarkable degree of autonomy. American fast food, with its fatty, sweet and bland tastes, is geared toward children, as are many American movies and television shows. Teenagers receive higher allowances, have greater access to credit cards, and have more money to spend on culture, or, in some cases, to spend on starting a business. American labor markets are flexible enough to create a large number of jobs at the lower end of the wage scale. Teenagers are more likely to acquire work experience, and they are more likely to earn a small amount of capital for financing a start-up enterprise. 
 It is a common American dream to want to start one's own business, and this cultural influence spreads to the young. It sometimes replaces school and family as a driving force. Ben, in an e-mail message, cited the openness of American culture. ''If starting a business wasn't 'cool,' '' he wrote, ''I doubt very many teens would partake.'' In the relatively nonegalitarian United States, almost everyone likes a winner. Ben also cited outsourcing, in this case the ability to buy cheap programming from abroad, as helping business start-ups.
 The new ideas and business principles behind the Web have carved out the ideal territory for the young. A neophyte is more likely to see that music can come from computers rather than just from stores or radios, or that it is best to book a flight without using a travel agent. Clay Shirky, an associate teacher at New York University, notes that many young people are blessed by an absence of preconceptions about Internet businesses. Years of experience are critical to refining and improving a long-familiar product, like bread. But completely new, outside-the-box ideas -- which typically come from the young -- are more important for founding Napster or YouTube. The Web also makes the human face of a business less important and allows the young to put forward their talents while disguising their inexperience. 
 It is well known that American companies have been the most successful at turning information technology into productivity advantages. In part, this is because of American success in mobilizing young talent.
 In 2006, BusinessWeek ranked Ben as one of America's top young entrepreneurs, and he is only this fall enrolling at Claremont McKenna College. Whatever Ben does next, his story shows that economic advantages start early. On a national level, these successes are rooted in the commercial, competitive, philanthropic, nonegalitarian and open nature of American society. America's economic head start probably won't go away anytime soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (93%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CURRICULA (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); STARTUPS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); WRITERS (70%); PHILANTHROPY (66%)

COMPANY: DELL INC (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (92%); MICHAEL DELL (74%); BILL GATES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



265 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: An Unexpected Odd Couple: Free Markets and Freedom

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
When President Bush declared last week that political openness naturally accompanied economic openness, his counterparts in Beijing and Moscow were not the only ones to object. Liberal and conservative intellectuals, even once ardent supporters, have backed away from the century-old theory that democracy and capitalism, like Paris Hilton and paparazzi, need each other to survive. 
 From China, where astounding economic growth persists despite Communist Party rule, to Russia, where President Vladimir V. Putin has squelched opposition, to Venezuela, where dissent is silenced, developments around the world have been tearing jawbreaker-size holes in what has been a remarkably powerful idea, not only in academic circles but also in both Republican and Democratic administrations -- that capitalism and democracy are two sides of a coin.
''People, including myself, still have reasons to think it will eventually happen,'' Francis Fukuyama, a political economist at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, said of China's evolution to democracy. ''But the time frame has to be a lot longer.'' At least in the next couple of decades, he said, it is likely that ''the authoritarian system will keep going and get stronger.'' 
 Mr. Fukuyama, perhaps more than anyone else, has been associated with the idea that capitalism and democracy are inextricably linked. In his famous essay, ''The End of History,'' written in 1989 as the Soviet Union was in decline, he declared that all nations would ultimately develop into Western-style liberal democracies.
 ''There was great hope in the early 1990s,'' said Michael Mandelbaum, the author of the forthcoming book ''Democracy's Good Name: The Rise and Risks of the World's Most Popular Form of Government.'' The belief was that rising incomes would create a middle class that would agitate for personal liberty and political power. The tipping point seemed to occur when per capita income reached somewhere between $6,000 and $8,000. True, there were exceptions like tiny Singapore with its growing wealth and one-party state, but they were often dismissed as too small or transitional to really put a dent in the theory. 
 Yet, as the free market and autocrats gained power in the Caucasus, Central Asia, Latin America and Russia, the initial optimism about democracy's sure-footed march faltered. Some scholars pointed out that the American experience, where democracy and capitalism arose at the same time, was not so much a model for the rest of the world as an anomaly. ''Capitalism came before democracy essentially everywhere, except in this country, where they started at the same time,'' said Bruce R. Scott, an economist at Harvard Business School who is finishing a book titled ''Capitalism, Democracy and Development.''
 ''In the rest of the world, it took 100, 200, 300 years before they got to where they could manage a democracy,'' Mr. Scott said. A big mistake, he said, was assuming that ''all you had to have was a constitution and an election and you had a democracy; that was really stupid.'' 
 Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate now at Columbia University, agrees that one of the biggest changes since the early 1990s is an appreciation of the complexity and limits of democracy. 
 As more fledgling democracies fail, various theories have surfaced to explain the appearance of democracy and elections without real freedom. Fareed Zakaria, a columnist and author of a book on the development of democracy, suggested that some countries -- Singapore, Peru and Russia, for example -- went through a stage of ''illiberal democracy,'' where there was robust economic growth but few political liberties like a free press, the rule of law and personal liberty until liberal habits and institutions had a chance to develop.
 Then, just after the start of the Iraq war, ''There was a miniburst of optimism'' that capitalism was leading to democracy after all, Mr. Mandelbaum said, with three popular uprisings in Ukraine, Georgia and Kyrgyzstan and elections in Gaza, Lebanon and Egypt in 2005. The burst quickly fizzled though, when the democratic ''revolutions'' proved short-lived and prone to violence and corruption. Now some scholars argue that a free market can even end up undermining democracy. ''Capitalism doesn't necessarily lead toward democracy at all,'' Mr. Scott said. ''The one thing that you can say is that capitalism is going to relentlessly produce inequality of income, and eventually that is going to become incompatible with democracy.'' That is where political leadership and institutions come in. 
 Another problem, said Lord Dahrendorf, a research professor at the Social Science Research Center Berlin, is that when democracy fails to deliver the economic goods, people begin to doubt its value. ''Few things seem more difficult and yet few things are more important for sustainable liberty,'' he wrote recently, ''than to separate capitalism and democracy in people's minds.'' Otherwise, instead of mutually reinforcing each other, the two spiral into disenchantment. 
 Even if capitalism does not assure democracy's existence, many economists and political scientists say it creates a hospitable atmosphere and helps democratic systems withstand turmoil. Nor should we forget, Mr. Stiglitz counsels, that ''the movement from closed to open society is a very big change.'' To compete economically, a nation has to be plugged into the global information network, which exposes its citizens to other political systems and cultures. Reinforcing that trend, Mr. Mandelbaum said, is that the ''habits and values of a market economy, when transferred to the political sphere, make for a democracy.'' 
 But China, he acknowledges, is ''the big enchilada, the big test.'' Even with its growing middle class, it still has a billion poor people. Pressure for democracy will increase, but so will push back from China's leaders. So far they have been successful. ''The Chinese government is pretty good at buying off intellectuals and the middle class who fear disorder much more than they want political participation,'' Mr. Fukuyama said.
 He added that he would not be surprised if China and even Russia were to come up with a ''new type of authoritarian ideology that tries to justify'' their non-Western systems. He has already heard the outlines of such arguments -- which echo the ''Asian values'' idea of non-Western cultural norms that lead to different development paths -- from Chinese intellectuals and Russian policy makers.
 Where the theorizing spills out of the classroom, though, is around the question of what can be done to influence the process. This is where stark differences appear, not between liberals and conservatives, but between the professors and policy makers. As Mr. Fukuyama said, one point on which he has differed from neoconservatives in the Bush administration is that, ''I think, in general, the United States can't do very much.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ukrainians took to the streets in December 2004, but democratic revolutions there and elsewhere, in places like Georgia and Kyrgyzstan, did not have the expected results. In China, economic growth coincides with one-party rule. (Photo by James Hill for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); WRITERS (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); PARIS HILTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) CHINA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); UKRAINE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); GEORGIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



266 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Awaiting Trial, Ex-Labor Leader Puts On Hard Hat

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and MATTHEW SWEENEY

 BODY:
As he walked down West 59th Street yesterday, a burly man in a blue hard hat, he looked like thousands of other electricians in the city. 
 But this electrician, on lunch break from his $46-an-hour job building a luxury residential high-rise, was in no way a typical union journeyman.
He is Brian M. McLaughlin, once the city's top labor leader and once an assemblyman from Queens, a man courted by mayors and governors until he was indicted last October, charged with stealing money from his union, from the State Assembly, even from a local Little League. 
 As he worked yesterday at his new job at 59th Street and 11th Avenue, Mr. McLaughlin wore a red T-shirt and dust-covered blue jeans, having put aside the expensive wool suits and silk ties of old.
 Now he has become the rarest of species -- an indicted union leader who has gone back to work alongside the rank and file. He works each day next to members of his own union, Local 3, which the indictment accuses him of defrauding.
 If anything, though, his fellow electricians seemed protective of him yesterday as he walked around the site, unbothered by any sort of rancor.
 All told, Mr. McLaughlin, 55, is charged in a 43-count federal indictment with illegally obtaining $2.2 million through embezzlement, fraud, receiving bribes and other means. He has pleaded not guilty and is free pending trial.
 He said he was back at work for a simple reason: He had a family to support and a lawyer to pay -- and federal prosecutors were demanding that he disgorge any ill-gotten gains. 
 ''Like anyone else, I'm back at work because I need to work,'' he said. ''I always liked being an electrician.''
 Mr. McLaughlin, a brawny 6-foot-4, said there was also something comforting about returning to work he knows. ''This is very serene,'' he said, as he paused outside the building on his lunch break.
 Mr. McLaughlin said he received unemployment insurance for six months after he was forced to take a leave last summer from his job as president of the New York City Central Labor Council. He is now on unpaid leave. The organization is the nation's largest municipal labor council, representing more than one million workers.
 In March, he said, he went to work for several weeks underground as a sandhog on the gigantic water tunnel that is now under construction beneath the city. He said he decided to take a less grueling job as an electrician as soon as his name came up on the union's waiting list for jobs. 
 He said he did not jump ahead of other people on the list. ''I didn't do anything inappropriate'' in getting the job, he said. ''I waited my turn.''
 For the past two weeks, Mr. McLaughlin has been working on the Element Condominium, a 33-story building described on its Web site as an ''urbane paradise with breathtaking views.'' The electrical contractor on the site is Colony Electric, of Staten Island, and yesterday Mr. McLaughlin wore a Colony decal on his hard hat. 
 It has been a quarter-century since Mr. McLaughlin, who served seven terms in the State Legislature, last worked with his electrician's tools. Since then the trade has changed, with the spread of fiber optics, cable television and DSL.
 ''It's surprising that he's working with his tools now,'' said Jason Ramos, an electrician in Local 3 who was working at a neighboring construction site. ''He was so high-ranking up there.'' 
 In a city with a long history of indictments against labor leaders, Joshua Freeman, a labor historian at the City University Graduate Center, said it was nonetheless rare to encounter one who returns to his rank-and-file job after being charged.
 One possible reason Mr. McLaughlin is back at work is the delay he has encountered in selling a large country house he owns in Suffolk County, on the North Shore. Last fall, shortly after the indictment, he put the home, near a nature preserve in Nissequogue, on the market for $1.6 million. But real estate records indicate it has not sold -- perhaps because federal officials have sought to seize the property.
 The federal indictment accuses Mr. McLaughlin of taking more than $140,000 from his union's street lights division, for which he was business representative. It also accuses him of taking $185,000 from the Central Labor Council, more than $35,000 from the State Assembly and $95,000 from Little League baseball teams in Queens.
 Mr. McLaughlin, who is out on $250,000 bail, is also accused of stealing more than $330,000 from his own re-election committee, using some of that money to pay for personal expenses like a rehearsal dinner for his son's wedding and a renovation of his Nissequogue home.
 In addition, the indictment charges that he illegally received more than $1.4 million from street-lighting contractors and other companies.
 Conviction on all 43 counts could send him to prison for decades.
 His lawyer, Michael F. Armstrong, declined to comment yesterday, and officials for Local 3 did not return phone calls.
 For more than a week, Mr. McLaughlin has eaten lunch by himself at the Olympic Flame Diner, around the block from the construction site, according to a manager there. As he left the diner yesterday, he said he had faced no hostility from the union brothers with whom he now works.
 ''The people on the job are wonderful,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian M. McLaughlin, center, once New York City's top labor leader, who is under indictment, works on a high-rise on 11th Avenue. (Photo by Patrick Andrade for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); BRIBERY (70%); EMBEZZLEMENT (70%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (69%); SICK LEAVE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



267 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: With Immigration Bill Stalled, Advocates Push Forward

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 13 

 BODY:
As officials in Washington discussed ways to revive an immigration bill stalled in the Senate, immigrant advocates moved forward on Wednesday with a new round of lobbying that they hope will lead illegal immigrants out of the shadows.
 Two nationwide caravans supporting immigrant rights are on their way to Washington, including members of a ''Dreams Across America'' campaign that left Wednesday on a train here to tell their stories at several stops and through a multimedia Web site. It is one of three Dreams Across America trains carrying 100 immigrants through different parts of the country.
The campaign is organized by many of the groups -- including labor unions and the Roman Catholic Church -- that last year brought hundreds of thousands of people into the streets in support of immigration changes. The campaign is intended to counter concerns about border security and amnesty for illegal immigrants that have dominated the debate in Washington.
 ''We want to create a dialogue with the public,'' said Fermin Vasquez, 20, a college student from El Salvador who recently became a legal resident. ''We know there are a lot of misconceptions about what an immigrant is and isn't. Anti-immigrant people ignore the civil wars and disasters and economic conditions that cause people to immigrate.'' 
 Cardinal Roger M. Mahony, the archbishop of Los Angeles, attended the send-off. He said there was a need to draw attention to recent public opinion polls that have shown a majority of Americans in favor of comprehensive changes to immigration law. 
 ''Because a few have raised negative voices, strident voices, it is easy to forget the majority of Americans are for immigration reform,'' he said.
 The other caravan plans to deliver one million letters Thursday to a group of senators in Washington from citizens and legal residents supporting passage of the comprehensive bill.
 But unlike the largely cohesive front lined up against the Senate bill, there is some division among immigrant advocates about whether the legislation is worth fighting for.
 Some are pressing to get the bill approved by the Senate in hopes of making changes when it goes before the House. Others denounce that strategy and call for a process that would make it easier than the bill envisions for large numbers of illegal immigrants in the United States to get legal status.
 ''Nothing will be worse in terms of the millions of individuals and families that will be criminalized in perpetuity by the proposed Senate legislation,'' said lawyers for the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law, an advocacy group, in a statement. 
 Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, one of the groups in a broad coalition backing the bill, said many supporters had problems with aspects of the bill but supported the measure as a first step after years of failure to get any overhaul.
 That approach has left supporters of the bill in the awkward position of at once holding their noses while beating the drums for it.
 The Dreams Across America train reflects the changing tactics of some supporters, deliberately shifting their energies away from another round of demonstrations to lobby Congress. The cross-country public relations campaign offered a softer note to the large, loud demonstrations that some of the people behind the new move had backed last year. 
 Behind the scenes, pro-immigration lobbyists are peppering legislators with calls and meetings, and everyone is operating with a sense that the next few weeks are critical.
 The bill ''is certainly not what we wanted,'' said Richard H. White, president of the Arizona Interfaith Network, which promotes the legalization of illegal immigrants. ''But our point is, because we have differences, that does not mean that should stop the debate. There is just too much cost being borne inordinately by Arizona and other border states.''
 But other advocates disagree, saying supporters of an overhaul have given too much ground. The bill, they argue, would do little to advance their goal of granting citizenship or legal status to all 12 million illegal immigrants and would not make it easier to unite divided families.
 Antonio Gonzalez, a veteran immigrants' rights advocate who leads a coalition of groups opposing the bill, said it would create an ''apartheid system'' of open doors for the affluent and skilled and closed ones for less fortunate but much-needed low-skilled workers. 
 ''It does not legalize 12 million undocumented people because there are an infinite number of obstacles in the legalization program that preclude 80 to 90 percent from making it through the system to permanent residency,'' he said. ''It does not solve future labor needs because of built-in deficiencies like requiring temporary workers to go back for a year after two years. Nobody is going to do that.''
 He said it was misguided to think the House was the body to soften provisions so that illegal immigrants and their families could get legal status quicker or easier.
 ''The anti-immigrant right is driving this process, and the House is more susceptible to their pressure than the Senate,'' said Mr. Gonzalez, president of the William C. Velasquez Institute, an immigration policy center here.
 Such splits were reflected here in California, where Senator Dianne Feinstein, a backer of the bill, voted to cut off debate while a fellow Democrat, Senator Barbara Boxer, considered more liberal, joined 11 other Democrats in voting not to.
 As the presidential primaries gets closer, senators will be less inclined to make waves with an immigration bill, Mr. Sharry said, noting the minefield of procedural tactics, horse-trading and political posturing that can kill legislation.
 ''Immigration legislation in the Congress has the feel of an Indiana Jones flick,'' Mr. Sharry said. ''It is so unpredictable and there are so many trapdoors and bad guys and slithering snakes and huge boulders you don't see until they are on you. To get to the 'grand bargain' was extremely time consuming, extremely painful and extremely difficult.''
 Still left in the lurch are millions of illegal immigrants. A group of church leaders have begun a New Sanctuary Movement to house illegal immigrants facing deportation in churches across the country. Law enforcement officers generally do not enter church grounds to make arrests unless lives are at stake.
 Last Friday, Liliana, who refused to give her last name, took up residence at St. Luke's Episcopal Church in Long Beach, near Los Angeles. She has three small children who were born in the United States and are citizens, but she has been told she is ineligible for legal status because she entered the country with a fraudulent birth certificate from her native Mexico several years ago.
 ''We are not criminals or bad people,'' she said in a recent interview. ''We just want a way to work here and provide for our children.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Regla Soto, second from right, and other ''Dreams Across America'' participants began their caravan yesterday. (Photo by Stephanie Diani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RELIGION (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); AMNESTY (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); CIVIL WAR (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); LAWYERS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (64%); LABOR UNIONS (54%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



268 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Prima Ballerina With Supple Grace and a Will of Steel

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

 BODY:
When Diana Vishneva was 9, she was denied admission to the Vaganova Ballet Academy in Leningrad, the school that has produced generations of stars (Nijinsky, Pavlova, Nureyev and Mikhail Baryshnikov among them). Her spine was malformed and would cause her problems later, the authorities said. And her legs didn't lift high enough. 
 The experience marked her indelibly, said Ms. Vishneva, now 30 and, as a principal dancer with the Kirov Ballet and American Ballet Theater, widely acknowledged as one of the world's great ballerinas. ''Before that, I'd always been in first place for everything,'' she said, speaking through a translator at her temporary home, a comfortable apartment near Lincoln Center. ''Here there were about 90 children, from all over the Soviet Union, for each available place. It made me understand that not everything comes easily. After that, every day my mother would stretch my legs higher. When they wouldn't take me, I was determined to get in.'' 
Ms. Vishneva (pronounced Veesh-NYO-va), who is performing with American Ballet Theater during the company's Metropolitan Opera House season, would undoubtedly triumph in any ballerina casting call. She is as thin and pretty as might be expected, with dark hair, long eyelashes and skin so pale that one could imagine she never leaves the theater. In rehearsal she is intently focused but relaxed; she chats and smiles easily with her coaches and partners, but she never deviates from the work at hand. 
 In performance Ms. Vishneva is quite another being, an astonishing combination of abandon and control in a range of ballets encompassing the 19th-century classics as well as works by Ashton, Balanchine, MacMillan and William Forsythe. While this breadth of repertory is no longer uncommon for Kirov dancers, Ms. Vishneva is exceptional in her ability to put her supple plastique -- her gloriously articulate back from which all movement appears to emanate, her elongated line in arabesque, her exquisitely fluid arms -- at the service of the choreography. (Her dramatic intelligence and timing are also impeccable: no one know better how to hold a pause.)
 ''Who else is equally impressive as Odette and as the lead girl in Balanchine's 'Rubies' -- two roles that are almost a contradiction in terms?'' Robert Gottlieb wrote in The New York Observer this year. ''Vishneva is probably the most accomplished, the most complete, ballerina in the world today.''
 In conversation Ms. Vishneva is friendly and voluble, but also guarded. It is soon clear that she possesses that inner thread of steel, a simplicity of purpose, that great artists must have to shut out the world and bring it back at will.
 ''When I did get into the school two years later, I understood that my childhood had ended,'' she said. ''I entered a different family, of teachers who I trust and who trust me.'' Like countless generations of students before her, from the time the academy was the Imperial Ballet School, presided over by the czars, through the years of Soviet rule, her regime was rigorous: ballet class followed by schoolwork followed by more dance classes -- historical dance, character dance, mime and modern -- from 9 in the morning until 6 at night, frequently followed by additional rehearsals. 
 Every day Ms. Vishneva, who lived with her parents (her father is a chemist, her mother an economist) and older sister in a suburb of Leningrad, now St. Petersburg, would rise at 6 a.m. to make the 90-minute journey to school. Frequently she would be in the studio practicing before the other pupils arrived. ''I was a workaholic from an early age,'' she said. ''I was often so tired that I slept through the academic classes.'' 
 By the time she was 17, Ms. Vishneva had been asked by Oleg Vinogradov, the director of the Kirov Ballet, to join the company and had won the gold medal at the prestigious Prix de Lausanne competition in Switzerland. Not only did she turn down the prize -- a year's scholarship to an international ballet school of her choice -- but she also refused Mr. Vinogradov. ''I wanted to finish,'' she said. ''My school, my teachers -- they are holy.''
 When Ms. Vishneva did join the Kirov, in 1995, Makhar Vaziev had become the director of the Maryinsky Ballet, as it is known in Russia. (Because the Kirov name became well known in the West in the Soviet era, the company still uses it abroad.) Although Ms. Vishneva said it was ''like auditioning all over again,'' Mr. Vaziev was not slow to recognize her gifts, giving her the roles of Aurora and Juliet, and promoting her to principal dancer just one year after her entry into the company. More important, as far as she was concerned, he began a program of dancer exchanges with foreign companies, sending her to La Scala and to perform with Vladimir Malakhov's Berlin State Ballet.
 ''I learned what it is to be in another company,'' she said. ''I had to learn new versions of ballet I knew, work to a much heavier schedule than in Russia. I began to feel completely different.'' 
 In 2003 Mr. Vaziev arranged a dancer exchange with Kevin McKenzie, the artistic director of Ballet Theater. Since 2005 she has performed with Ballet Theater every year, thrilling audiences with a combination of purity and daring that comes, she says, from intense concentration on every moment of every ballet. ''When I learned 'Giselle,' '' she said, ''I must have rehearsed the first moment, when she opens the cottage door, at least 500 times. I often can't sleep because I'm thinking about a role -- how to make it better, what I didn't do.''
 Asked if this intense work ethic brings her pleasure onstage, Ms. Vishneva, who says she is as shy offstage as she is uninhibited on it, looked slightly puzzled. ''I do get satisfaction that it is my movement, my way of dancing,'' she said cautiously. ''It's the artistic side of ballet that is important to me. If I didn't have that, I would have left ballet. When you turn your technique into lightness, that's what is worthwhile. But it's an endless quest.'' Diana Vishneva will be performing with American Ballet Theater at the Met tomorrow night in ''Manon''; on Monday in ''Romeo and Juliet''; and on June 26 in ''Swan Lake.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Diana Vishneva performing in ''La Bayadere'' at the Met. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Diana Vishneva, a principal dancer with the Kirov Ballet and American Ballet Theater, is now performing in New York. (Photo by Damon Winter/The New York Times)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (91%); BALLET (91%); DANCE (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCE EDUCATION (90%); THEATER (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); OPERA (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



269 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Town Went Too Far in Trying To Take Land, Court Says

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

 BODY:
In a decision that could affect redevelopment battles across New Jersey, the State Supreme Court ruled unanimously yesterday that a town had overstepped the State Constitution's definition of ''blight'' when it tried to take private property for development. 
 ''Although community redevelopment is an important municipal power, that authority is not unfettered,'' Chief Justice James R. Zazzali wrote in the court's opinion. In the case, the town, Paulsboro, had argued that property owned by the Gallenthin family was ''not fully productive,'' and thus was in need of redevelopment, a designation that opened a 63-acre parcel to takeover using eminent domain.
The court disagreed. ''The New Jersey Constitution does not permit government redevelopment of private property solely because the property is not used in an optimal manner,'' Justice Zazzali wrote. He said that areas could be designated in need of redevelopment only if they, ''as a whole, are stagnant and unproductive because of issues of title, diversity of ownership or other similar conditions.''
 His opinion was at once a full-bodied discussion of what constitutes blight and a marker of the churning debate over eminent domain taking place in New Jersey and across the country since a United States Supreme Court ruling in 2005 that established the rights of localities to take over land for economic development.
 The decision yesterday was hailed by the state's public advocate, Ronald Chen, who had lobbied for changes in state law that would tighten the definition of ''blighted areas.'' 
 ''It's an important moment for the court to speak,'' Mr. Chen said. ''The need for redevelopment is critical in New Jersey, as is the need to protect property rights.'' He said that blight, as set out by the state's highest court, ''was not an impossible definition'' for municipalities to meet.
 Paulsboro, an industrial town of 6,500 people, sits across the Delaware River from the Philadelphia airport. The Gallenthin family had owned property there since 1951. In 2003, as part of a broader development plan, the town designated the property as a redevelopment area, and before the decision yesterday it had fended off court challenges from the property owner.
 Yesterday's decision could have an immediate effect on at least two eminent domain cases that are being heard in New Jersey courts, legal experts said.
 Richard Epstein, a law professor at the University of Chicago, said the decision could be seen in the context of a recent judicial pushback against broad definitions of blight, citing recent decisions in Ohio and California. 
 ''There is going to be more rooted opposition the more people feel threatened,'' he said, adding that the term had been used as a trump card of sorts for developers and local politicians. ''If you could define by fiat an area as blighted or seedy, the battle was over.'' 
 The New Jersey justices included a lengthy discussion of the word ''blight'' that included the views of writers on the subject and the dictionary definition. 
 A clause on blighted areas was introduced into the Constitution by Jane Barus, a delegate to the constitutional convention of 1947. She had intended to enable ''the rehabilitation of our cities,'' the court wrote. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); PROPERTY LAW (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LOBBYING (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (84%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



270 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Waterfront Called Endangered Site

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
The mighty Monitor, the ironclad Civil War ship, was built on Greenpoint's gritty waterfront. The Graving Dock at the Todd Shipyards in Red Hook was the terminal for ships traveling from the Erie Canal. The Old Dutch Mustard Company in Williamsburg churned out prepared mustard, vinegars and fruit juice for half a century. The mustard building was torn down last fall, and other sites in Brooklyn are soon to be transformed into apartments and stores in an ambitious neighborhood revitalization effort that is a cornerstone of the Bloomberg administration's economic development initiative. But today the National Trust for Historic Preservation plans to sound the alarm by declaring Brooklyn's industrial waterfront one of America's 11 most endangered historic places.
 ''The buildings really represent an important part of Brooklyn's heritage, and it would be a tragedy to lose it,'' Richard Moe, president of the trust, said in an interview. ''We're very concerned that there's such a rush on to demolish everything.''
The endangered area delineated by the trust extends from the Brooklyn Army Terminal in Sunset Park to the site of the burned-out Greenpoint Terminal Market. Mr. Moe said the trust's declaration was intended as a warning to city government to integrate historic sites into its development plans rather than erase them. 
 Preservationists assert that the city should consider using the old manufacturing buildings for new purposes, as developers have done in SoHo and TriBeCa, and that some existing manufacturing should be allowed to continue. 
 ''They have value for the working waterfront and industrial retention in New York City,'' Lisa Kersavage, a preservationist at the Municipal Art Society, said of the structures. ''We need to raise awareness that these buildings are of national significance and that their loss is of national concern.''
 The waterfront was nominated for the endangered list by the society, a nonprofit preservation organization. The society says that the city's Department of Buildings issued 1,740 new building permits in Brooklyn in 2005. The same year the buildings department issued 1,924 permits for demolition, roughly double the number issued five years ago. 
 ''Brooklyn lost five buildings and gained four new ones every day in 2005,'' the society said in its nomination. Asked about the trust's concerns, Daniel L. Doctoroff, deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, pointed out that some buildings might be preserved, like the Domino Sugar refinery, a brick Romanesque Revival structure that is up for consideration by the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission. 
 ''It's a balance,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''All the time we weigh the value of historical preservation against the need to move the city forward in terms of housing, jobs and parkland.''
 In successive waves from the 19th to the 20th century, immigrants streamed into Brooklyn for its plentiful jobs in maritime operations, factories, warehouses and sugar refineries. The trust asserts that this legacy will be lost unless more buildings are preserved.
 ''Today Brooklyn's industrial heritage -- a tangible link with the immigrants who struggled for new lives here -- is in jeopardy as the waterfront falls victim to voracious developers anxious to cash in on the area's newly hip status,'' the trust said in a statement.
 The areas at risk include the Greenpoint-Williamsburg waterfront, where about 180 blocks were rezoned by the New York City Council in 2005 to allow for the construction of larger buildings. More than 7,000 residential units are planned or under construction in downtown Brooklyn, not including the nearby Atlantic Yards project, which calls for eight million square feet of high-rise housing, office space and a basketball arena. 
 Preservationists say the manufacturing buildings should be integrated into these grand plans. ''As they make up the past, they should be part of the future,'' said Ward Dennis, founding member of the Waterfront Preservation Alliance of Greenpoint and Williamsburg. 
 In the 1850s Williamsburg was the third-largest city in the region, filled with 19th-century row houses and manufacturing buildings, as well as banks, schools, churches and synagogues. 
 In Red Hook the trust is concerned about the loss of the Civil War-era Graving Dock, a concrete and steel basin that was used to repair tall ships, starting in 1866. The city recently approved plans to allow Ikea, the home furnishings store, to pave over the dock to make way for a parking lot.
 The trust also cited the Domino refinery, with its signature dome, rounded-arch openings and distinctive smokestack. Acquired by the Havemeyer family in 1856 -- and rebuilt after a fire in 1882 -- it was once one of the largest refineries in the world, the society said; by 1870 more than half of the sugar consumed in the United States was refined there.
 At the Revere Sugar factory in Red Hook, developers recently received a demolition permit and started taking down buildings to clear the waterfront site for commercial and residential construction. And the Greenpoint Terminal Market, a former rope factory built in 1890, was destroyed in May 2006 in a fire shortly after the city rezoned the area to allow for high-rise residential towers. 
 The trust also named the 1915 Austin, Nichols Warehouse in Williamsburg, which lost its landmark status in a City Council vote in December 2005. Designed by Cass Gilbert, the architect for the Woolworth Building and the Customs House, it is considered an unusual example of the Egyptian Revival style, with its monumental horizontal reinforced concrete form, flared cornices and narrow, patterned window openings. The building is being expanded and converted into a luxury condominium.
 The society says the city's environmental impact statement for the rezoning in the Greenpoint-Williamsburg area identified only 18 historic buildings and one historic district deserving of protection within 180 blocks, while the society's own survey of the same area identified 264 buildings that should have been included.
 The historic trust, a nonprofit organization dedicated to saving historic places, lobbies Congress and operates sites like Philip Johnson's Glass House in New Canaan, Conn., which opened to the public this spring.
 Since it began issuing its annual endangered list in 1988, the trust has identified 189 threatened historic sites. Among the 11 choices this year are also El Camino Real de Tierra Adentro National Historic Trail, a 300-year-old trade route that runs from Texas to New Mexico and is threatened by a $225 million commercial Spaceport for suborbital flights, planned adjacent to one of the trail segments.
 The trust also named the 1803 H. H. Richardson House in Brookline, Mass., the last home and studio of the architect Henry Hobson Richardson, which is vacant and subject to demolition unless a buyer comes forward. 
 Historic motels along Route 66, from Illinois to California, also made the list. 
 Mr. Moe said that while time would soon run out, he hoped that the Brooklyn waterfront's historic character could be preserved. ''This is a problem that can be fixed -- it's not too late,'' he said. ''We have already lost some historic buildings and we don't want to lose any more.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about a decision by the National Trust for Historic Preservation to declare Brooklyn's industrial waterfront one of the country's most endangered historic places misstated the nature of the roofing at the Domino Sugar Refinery in Williamsburg, which is within the area. None of the buildings are topped by a dome; the Revere Sugar Factory in Red Hook, which has been mostly demolished, had a dome.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Preservationists see history in the Domino Sugar factory. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
The site of the Old Dutch Mustard Company in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The factory was torn down to make way for a new building.
 In the zone of an ''endangered historic place'': The former Greenpoint Terminal Market, at left, and the Austin, Nichols Warehouse. (Photographs by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. E7) Map of Brooklyn, New York, highlighting the location of demolished buildings in the waterfront area from reen point to the Brooklyn Army Ternminal: The endangered area in the Brooklyn waterfront as delineated by a preservation group. (pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY VESSELS (90%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORY (78%); DRESSING & SAUCE MFG (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUILDING PERMITS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); MAYORS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (70%); CITIES (70%); SUGAR MFG (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (61%)

COMPANY: OLD DUTCH MUSTARD CO INC (72%); VIGOR INDUSTRIAL LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (72%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



271 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Legislators' Pet Spending Projects, Exposed

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 12 

 BODY:
As part of the effort to bring greater transparency to the state's budget process and reduce the potential for corruption, the Legislature on Wednesday released for the first time a list of special projects and other changes to the $33.5 billion budget being requested by individual lawmakers.
 The list of what have long been known as Christmas tree items -- so named because they were strung onto the budget like so many lights and ornaments -- include local pet projects like $75,000 for the Boys and Girls Club of Newark and $82,000 for the meals program of the UJA Federation of Northern New Jersey. Some reflected municipalities' priorities, like $1 million for the North Hudson Fire District and $750,000 for landfill closings in North Arlington. 
Others were sponsored by large groups of lawmakers and reflected broad policy: a $129 million increase in aid to hospitals that treat uninsured patients, $3 million to legal services for the poor, and cost-of-living increases for workers at health programs receiving state funds.
 In all, the Legislature posted online 404 requested changes to the budget proposed by Gov. Jon S. Corzine. (It is at www.njleg.state.nj.us/changebudgetproposal/budgetresolutions.asp). Each change lists its legislative backers, along with a disclosure form detailing any personal or business relationship the lawmaker has to the recipient of the money. 
 The list came the day after the legislative leaders and Governor Corzine announced they had reached agreement on the budget, well in advance of the June 30 deadline. 
 Later Wednesday, they released the blueprint of that agreement, which includes a total of $189 million more in spending than Mr. Corzine proposed in February. By far the largest single change that lawmakers made in the governor's proposal was the $129 million increase in aid to hospitals for serving the uninsured. And only about 50 of the members' requested changes were included in the two houses' appropriation measure. Hearings on the measure are scheduled to begin Friday.
 The Christmas tree list is, in part, the legislative leaders' attempt to defuse the public's suspicion about the items, which often find their way into the state spending plan at the last minute without much discussion and are suspected of benefiting politically connected interests.
 The practice of adding last-minute items flourished in varying degrees under both Democratic and Republican regimes in the Legislature, and has in the last year attracted the attention of federal investigators, who have subpoenaed budget records concerning Christmas tree items back to 2004.
 In March a former budget committee chairman, Sen. Wayne R. Bryant, a Democrat from Camden, was indicted on corruption charges, accused of pushing for such budget enhancements for a state medical school that employed him as a consultant.
 The new openness in New Jersey comes amid outrage over similar budget items, known as earmarks in the United States Congress, that have also figured prominently in corruption scandals. Congress as well has moved in the last year to shed light on the process of earmarks.
 ''This is open, and there is nothing that is going to be happening behind a closed door at 4 in the morning,'' said Senate President Richard J. Codey, a Democrat. 
 Mr. Codey noted that in recent weeks he had been discouraging some members from seeking certain changes or additions to the budget, warning that Governor Corzine, who has the authority to make line-item vetoes, would never approve it. He said that over the next eight months, before next year's budget negotiations begin, the lawmakers would refine the new, more transparent process to pool changes under broad program areas and eliminate narrowly focused items without cutting funding of local projects altogether.
 ''There are plenty of programs that are worthwhile and should be included in the budget,'' Mr. Codey said. ''I disagree that these are all questionable Christmas tree items.''
 Sen. Leonard Lance, the Republican leader, said his party's members had not requested any additions to the budget.
 ''We believe that the state is in a precarious fiscal situation with a $2.5 billion structural deficit,'' he said. ''We just hope they vote on each item individually so that there can be discussion.''
 But such individual votes are unlikely. Instead, Assembly and Senate Democrats were caucusing late on Wednesday to winnow the list of changes. In the Assembly, according to Joseph Donnelly, the spokesman for Speaker Joseph R. Roberts Jr., there were 245 specific budget changes requested from 45 of the 50 Democrats. Those changes included 223 requests for increased spending and 22 requests for reduced outlays in such areas as fuel, reductions based on updated economic projections since the original budget was drawn up. 
 Mr. Donnelly said this amounted to $495 million in increased spending and $194 million in reductions for a net increase of $300 million -- the figure in place before legislators and the governor then cut the requests to achieve the final increase of $189 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); SUBPOENAS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); LEGAL AID (73%); COST OF LIVING (67%); INDICTMENTS (61%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); LANDFILLS (54%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (73%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



272 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Passes Bill to Cut Subsidies to Student Lenders

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13 

 BODY:
The House education committee voted Wednesday to cut subsidies to student lenders and to halve the interest rates on a key student loan program over the next five years.
 The bill, approved in a 30-to-16 vote that included many Republicans on the yes side, underscored the vastly changed landscape facing the student loan industry, which is facing major challenges this year, including investigations of its marketing and underwriting practices. The Senate education committee is taking up its own bill next week, expected to include even deeper cuts in subsidies to lenders than the $19 billion in the House bill, and President Bush also proposed cuts in payments to lenders. 
 ''For far too long, college costs have grown faster than families' ability to pay them,'' said Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee. ''With this bill, we are saying that help is on the way.''
 The bill met with sharp criticism from the lending industry. In a statement, the Consumer Bankers Association, which represents lenders, called it an ''anti-student bill in pro-student clothing,'' predicting that it would result in fewer services to students as lenders seek to cut overhead costs.
 The bill raises the maximum Pell grants for low- and moderate-income students over the next five years, to $5,200 from the current $4,700. It eases repayment for students relying on federal loans to pay for college, by lowering the maximum a graduate must make in loan payments to 15 percent of income, rather than the current 20 percent.
 It also offers $4,000 a year in tuition assistance for students planning to become public school teachers and forgives up to $5,000 in student loans for graduates who enter public service, including law enforcement officers, firefighters, nurses and public defenders.
 Many of the bill's elements, like the cuts in lender subsidies, had either been proposed by Congressional Republicans in the past or included in Mr. Bush's budgets.
 The lower interest rate, which would apply to need-based student loans, had also been approved by the full House shortly after the new Congress was sworn in last January. But Wednesday's bill extends the period during which the interest rate will drop to 3.4 percent, from its current 6.8 percent, to a year, instead of six months.
 The bill pays for the estimated $18 billion in expanded benefits to students through some $19 billion in cuts to lender payments. Another $750 million of the savings will go toward reducing the federal deficit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER BANKERS ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



273 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; CRITICAL SHOPPER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: If You Really Need the Big Price Tag

BYLINE: By Mike Albo

 BODY:
WHEN I walked up to Theory's flagship store in the meatpacking district, I saw a model teetering outside on the uneven cobblestones of Gansevoort Street, getting some last-minute touch-ups for a photo shoot. She was wearing a cream-colored coat that was gathered in the back with clips, like an exoskeletal spine. 
 Around the corner on Greenwich was a line of movie trailers, humming with individual air-conditioners, waiting to shelter Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio, who were apparently filming somewhere down the street.
I needed this boost of hype before entering the chillingly large interior of Theory, which offers oddly simple clothes at prices that would make no sense unless Leo and a bunch of models were around. 
 There weren't many people in the store, but that may just be because it is so huge you don't see other people right away. The vast high-ceiling space is divided between men's and women's apparel, with a central pit of plush beige couches and a smattering of shoes on tables, along with art books, bags and sunglasses. Garments hang from racks suspended from the ceiling, and I began thumbing through them, trying to find something that my low-limit credit card could cope with. This was not easy.
 A simple yellow and gray striped sweater and a blue shirt in a slightly buckled poplin were each $225. I gravitated toward a pair of summery seersucker pants for $195, but after trying them on, I realized they were as wide-legged as some similar pants I have that were my grandpa's. Shorts were available in the style for $165, but I couldn't stop thinking about the $30 of leg material that was absent from them. There were Sole Surfer flip-flops for $20, and on two small tables, a few skin care products as well as candles, available in masculine scents. ''They're mandles!'' a salesperson said. (The people who work here all seem kind of fun to be around.)
 I found a long-sleeve henley in a long-john weave of cool, beautifully soft viscose for $125. When I tried it on, it fit like a second skin, but I didn't think that I was cocky enough to wear it. This was a top for Johnny Drama on ''Entourage'' or one of the many stylized dudes who must pass through these doors every day.
 The meatpacking district vibrates and throbs with so much trendiness and so many models and tan people that it has become an epicenter of conspicuous taste that rivals Robertson Boulevard in Los Angeles. And Theory is like the area's City Hall. 
 Founded in 1997 by Andrew Rosen, Theory is owned by Link Theory Holdings, a Japanese company that recently bought and revamped Helmut Lang. It moved to this corner building in November. Viewed from outside, it looks governmental, but as you roam the gorgeous first floor, you sense that above you, every detail of your experience has been carefully planned. 
 Considering the cost of the renovation, Theory must be doing something right. It seems to have found a niche for itself: a contemporary clothing brand that is just a tiny silk thread away from being a designer label but isn't one. The clothes stay as basic as Banana Republic for the small/medium/large mind-set while trying to be as distinctive as a designer brand like Marc Jacobs, which these clothes seem to emulate in both their understated preppie-cool style as well as their price tags. 
 It is here that you can get your basic white V-neck T-shirt in a soft cotton fabric for $65. Or, over in the women's section, a black silk blouse for $275 and a tiny cropped black leather bomber for $815. 
 These garments are given names that sound like the monikers of models who work and party outside its doors: Danton, Ares, Zander. The fabrics and colors get special titles, too, so a pair of brown shorts are not just shorts, but Jace in Quest fabric and Coffee Bean color. 
 BUT no matter how seductive the feel, particular the fit or ingenious the categorization, I can't get over how expensive these clothes are. But then, I am not someone who can just order drink after drink at the Hotel Gansevoort with cavalier joy and talk about how fun it is to be tricoastal. 
 For me, high prices are justified if I can fool myself into thinking that something is a luxury brand or created by some mastermind with a unique vision of the world. The clothes here do not offer as much wit, passion or unity of theme as could be had for the same amount at, say, Marc by Marc or John Varvatos. One rack, for instance, held business shirts in sullen blue and gray checks and stripes. They fit nicely, but couldn't I go online to Lands' End and custom-order something similar? That way I would at least have the satisfaction of getting more attention to personal detail. 
 Then something scary happened to me. The longer I was in the store, the more I began to internalize the inflated prices. My basic scale of value was unmoored, and as I searched a rack of sober blue shirts, I started justifying the prices. ''Wow! This is only $145! That's way less than the $225 shirt a rack away! It's a steal!'' 
 This led me to buy the stretchy Klaus shirt in Studio with Black Ticing (a cotton/poly/nylon weave in a thin black and white stripe) and the Kale in a Bengal Stripe of White/Sapphire, basically a cotton button-down in the conservative blue and white stripe of a banker. They seared my credit card as if it were a tuna steak. 
 For all my griping, I do kind of love what I bought. I wore my Klaus shirt that night and felt pretty special. For Leo, who will probably stop by between scenes, coming here may be like me lazily going to Old Navy or Target. Sick of free Valentino and Louis Vuitton, he can dash in for mandles, flip-flops and new duds for Clooney's Italian mansion party. See? Everyone needs basic knock-around clothes, even here in the excessive Bizarro World economy of the meatpacking district. Theory 40 Gansevoort Street; (212) 524-6790 SPACE -- A vast first-floor factory loft with dangling racks and large dressing rooms. Above are four floors of headquarters, so you feel as if the store's designs are freshly conceived, even if they are manufactured elsewhere. SERVICE -- You'll get a greeting right when you walk in, and the staff seem genuinely happy to see you (or at least trained to seem that way) and continue being nice when you walk around scrunching up your face in confusion at the prices. STYLE -- Toned-down basics for people too cool, rich or famous for Club Monaco and H&M. The merch changes every three to four weeks. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: CONCEPT -- The spacious flagship Theory store in the meatpacking district carries basics with a bit of pizazz. (Photographs by Donna Alberico for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (77%); FILM (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (61%)

COMPANY: LINK THEORY HOLDINGS CO LTD (69%)

PERSON: LEONARDO DICAPRIO (70%); KATE WINSLET (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007



274 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey, Trying to Save in '02, Drove Up Pension Costs Instead

BYLINE: By JO CRAVEN McGINTY and DAVID W. CHEN; Mary Williams Walsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In 2002, struggling to close a huge budget gap, the New Jersey Legislature hurriedly passed a bill offering thousands of state employees generous early retirement packages. Unions applauded because layoffs had been averted. Gov. James E. McGreevey claimed the state would save millions by cutting its payroll.
 But those savings have proved negligible compared with the long-term cost of the plan. By its own accounting, the state would have to set aside $617 million today to finance those sweetened pensions, double the amount it says it will have saved by trimming the work force and reducing salaries.
In the past two decades, New Jersey has on at least four other occasions granted generous early retirement benefits, and in each case, experts say, the plans cost the state more than it saved. 
 These and other pension enhancements, combined with years of skipping payments into the system, have undermined the state's ability to meet its pension obligations without raising taxes, borrowing money or shifting money from other state programs, experts and lawmakers warn. 
 ''Collectively as a Legislature we really never learn,'' said Senator Shirley K. Turner, a Democrat from Mercer County, who was a prime sponsor of the 2002 early retirement bill but now regrets its passage. ''We want to please people, we want to make them happy. But it has to be paid for. That's how we've mortgaged the future.''
 At least 14 other states, including Illinois and Texas, have made similar attempts to cut the work force in recent years and found the costs much greater than expected. Even Illinois, which did manage to shrink its staff over all, failed to pay for the pension enhancements on time, leading to higher costs. 
 A review by The New York Times of New Jersey pension records and government and legislative reports relating to its 2002 early retirement plan reveals the following problems: 
 More than 5,500 workers -- better than twice what the state had originally projected -- received early retirement packages, which added thousands of dollars to many workers' annual pensions. The larger number of retirements has meant higher than projected long-term costs to the pension and retiree health care systems. 
 Though the McGreevey administration pledged to keep half of the vacated jobs open for three years, only 210 state-financed vacancies remained by the end of the next fiscal year. The total amount spent on state salaries did not decline.
 The normal review process for the early retirement legislation did not occur because a special panel that analyzes all pension-related bills did not meet that entire year.
 More than 2,000 of the retirees were in federally financed jobs for which the state did not realize any saving in salaries. Yet the state will still have to cover their retirement costs.
 In his budget address this year, Gov. Jon S. Corzine warned that New Jersey faced a $25 billion shortfall in the $80 billion pension system. Some experts say the gap is much larger. 
 Mr. McGreevey did not respond to requests for interviews on the 2002 plan, but state officials who worked under him have said the plan helped keep down state spending and helped the administration close a $5.3 billion budget gap without undue pain. 
 Those officials also acknowledge that they knew savings from the early retirement program would not last long. 
 ''We never thought it would be a real long-term savings,'' said John E. McCormac, who was Mr. McGreevey's treasurer and an architect of the 2002 plan. ''There were a lot of promises made, but at the end of the day, those commitments weren't honored, because the departments said, 'I can't do with less.' ''
 Mr. McGreevey came into office in January 2002 facing a daunting $5.3 billion gap that had resulted from declining tax revenues caused by the post-9/11 economic downturn. Within a week of taking office, he fired several hundred nonunion state employees and threatened layoffs.
 During his election campaign, Mr. McGreevey, a Democrat, had forged a close alliance with the state's powerful public employee unions, so he was hesitant to lay off workers. He had also pledged not to raise taxes. So he turned to other measures to close the gap. 
 ''It's a textbook solution for every state or county with a deficit,'' Mr. McCormac said. 
 To encourage people to leave government service, the plan offered employees one of three pension sweeteners based on their age and length of service: extra years of service credit, free health benefits, or $500 a month for 24 months.
 For most employees, the enhancements meant thousands of dollars more each year in pension payments. A doctor at Hunterdon Developmental Center, for example, retired with three extra years of service credit and an annual maximum pension of $81,470.83. Without the additional credit, his pension would have been $74,007.85, a difference of $7,462.98. New Jersey also adds a cost-of-living adjustment each year. 
 In 2002, the McGreevey administration projected that the early retirement plan would save about $50 million in the first year and $261 million in salaries, benefits and taxes over five years. But for those savings to occur, the state said some things had to happen: 
 First, 2,481 employees would have to take advantage of the incentives. Second, the state would have to hold open half those vacated positions until 2005. Then, it could fill only 10 percent of the openings each year. 
 None of that happened.
 Perhaps because of the generous terms, more than 5,500 employees retired with the incentives. Half of those retirees worked in jobs at universities, colleges or agencies in which the federal government provided money for their positions. Their departures did not reduce state salaries; but with some exceptions, the state still had to pay for their pensions. 
 The administration did identify 2,573 full-time employees in state-paid jobs whose retirements produced salary savings. But instead of holding most of their jobs open for several years, the state filled nearly all of them quickly; only 210 remained vacant at the end of the 2003 fiscal year. 
 Because the state filled so many positions so quickly, it appears that the early retirement plan had minimal effect on the state's payroll. Indeed, a review of state records shows that the state's salary costs rose at an even pace before and after the 2002 plan was enacted. 
 The state, however, says salary costs would have risen even higher had the plan not been enacted. And it asserts that savings from the plan have grown to $314 million, though the accuracy of that number is difficult to determine because the state has never performed a job-to-job analysis of the savings. Instead it relied on averages to estimate savings. 
 By the state's own calculations, it also turns out that the cost of the early retirement package to the pension system is now more than double what the state projected in 2002: $616.8 million in today's dollars, instead of $278.1 million. The cost appears to have grown because more employees than predicted took advantage of the plan and the state needed to pay for pensions for the replacement workers. 
 Experts say that New Jersey's experience with the 2002 plan is quite typical of early retirement programs. Alan R. Kooney, a former legislative budget and finance director whose office reviewed the 2002 plan, said such packages were used during crises because they provide immediate savings without painful layoffs or service cuts. But those savings, he said, are almost always dubious propositions in the long run. 
 Still, New Jersey has tried them again and again: in 1991, 1993, 1997 and 1999 -- all years when it faced budget shortfalls. At present, more than 20,000 retirees, or about one in 10, benefit from some sort of early retirement incentive.
 Thomas Bryan, who was director of the Division of Pensions and Benefits in 2002, said those earlier programs did not seem to have saved as much of the money as had been anticipated. And a task force appointed by Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey to scrutinize employee benefits urged the state in 2005 to declare a permanent moratorium on early retirement plans because of their large, long-term liability.
 The current state treasurer, Bradley I. Abelow, said he was ''highly skeptical'' of early retirement incentives but did not rule them out as a way to encourage local governments to consolidate services.
 Despite that poor track record for early retirement plans, the 2002 bill passed quickly: just 18 days from its introduction to its final approval. (The only debate was over whether to expand the plan to include thousands of teachers and municipal employees. After Mr. McGreevey objected, that idea was shelved until the following year when the Legislature enacted it.) 
 The 2002 package was also approved without being reviewed by a 10-member state panel appointed by the governor and legislative leaders that customarily examines pension-related bills. That panel, the Pension and Health Benefits Review Commission, has opposed early retirement plans because of the costs they impose on the system.
 But in 2002, the panel did not meet once, records show, because the administration had not filled vacancies and then failed to convene the group. 
 Mr. McCormac acknowledged that the early retirement measure had contributed to the pension system's current fiscal trouble. He asserted, however, that its impact was small compared with other measures, including a benefit enhancement in 2001 that increased all state pensions by 9 percent, and stock market losses between 2000 and 2002.
 But even some prominent lawmakers who supported the 2002 measure now say it was a mistake. 
 ''All too often in state government we look toward short-term immediate solutions to problems without looking at the long-term consequences,'' said John Bennett, a Republican and former Senate president who voted for the measure but now says it was a mistake. 

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''The Final Count'' New Jersey offered early retirement incentives to state workers in 2002 to eliminate jobs and cut costs, but the package has not been successful. More people retired than had been projected . . . EMPLOYEES WHO RETIRED IN 2002 Predicted: 2,481 Actual More than: 5,500 . . . and then most of their jobs were filled quickly . . . Positions that remained vacant in 2003 8% (210 jobs)* Positions filled 92%* *Based on state-financed positions . . . so New Jersey's total work force continued to increase . . . Graph tracks all state employees since 1995. . . . and spending on salaries continued to rise because of this and new hiring. Graph tracks total state salaries since 1995. (Source by New Jersey Division of Pensions and Benefits)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); EARLY RETIREMENT (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



275 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
 HIGHER YIELDS TO HIT HOMEOWNERS The fallout from the increasing yields on the 10-year Treasury note -- a benchmark that influences many long-term interest rates, including home mortgages -- is likely to be widespread, and felt most immediately by homeowners and people looking to purchase a house. [Page A1.] MORTGAGE PROBLEMS PERSIST Delinquencies and foreclosures among homeowners with weak credit moved higher in the first quarter, but an industry report suggested that the problems have not extended into the larger pool of borrowers with stronger credit. [C1.] A TOLL ON WALL STREET The meltdown in the subprime housing market may be taking a toll on Wall Street firms. Goldman Sachs reported that profits were flat from a year ago, due to a weak mortgage market. 
And Bear Stearns reported a 10 percent drop in net income, excluding a one-time charge, also largely a result of the tepid mortgage market. [C7.] HANDOUTS FOR THE SUCCESSFUL A golf resort on the windy coast of Oregon benefits from a variety of state and local subsidies, the kind of indirect favors that influence the flow of money from the public to private interests and often serve to reinforce benefits for those who are already successful. [C1.] TAXES ON PUBLIC HEDGE FUNDS Two senators introduced legislation that could significantly increase taxes on publicly traded private equity firms and hedge funds, a move that could dampen interest as the Blackstone Group, the giant private equity firm, continues marketing its initial public offering to potential investors. [C1.] BOOM FOR VENEZUELAN BANKS President Hugo Chavez repeatedly vows to do away with capitalism in Venezuela. But it turns out that Mr. Chavez's economic policies have been generating a boom for those most capitalist of institutions -- Venezuela's banks. [C1.] THOMAS THE TANK ENGINE RECALL The toy maker RC2 Corporation pulled a number of its Thomas & Friends trains and accessory parts off the shelves after learning the red and yellow paint used to decorate more than 1.5 million of the toys contained lead. [C3.] PRICE INCREASES ARE MODERATED A double-digit jump in gasoline prices pushed up inflation at the wholesale level in May, but tame increases for most other goods suggested that price increases were largely contained and businesses would not react by raising prices. [C2.] DEMOCRATS PUT OFF ENERGY BILL Senate Democrats, facing their first significant battle over a wide-ranging bill aimed at reducing oil consumption, found themselves blocked by a Republican threat of a filibuster, and postponed all significant votes until next week. [A23.] LENDERS' TIES TO UNIVERSITIES Gifts and payoffs to universities and their officials by student lenders were far more pervasive than has been disclosed, and in some cases were demanded by university officials themselves in exchange for promoting lenders to students, according to a Senate report on the student loan industry. [A21.] CHINESE AUTOMAKER IN MEXICO A small Chinese automaker and its New Jersey partner are negotiating with Mexican officials to import Chinese-made pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, the first step toward building an assembly plant in Tijuana that could export vehicles to the United States. [C9.] TALKS TO BUY INDIAN AIRLINE An Indian tycoon, Vijay Mallya, is in talks to acquire a stake in SpiceJet, a publicly traded Indian airline backed by a Dubai investment fund and a group of investment banks. Mr. Mallya, left, is chairman of the UB Group, an airline and liquor conglomerate, and he also owns Kingfisher Airlines. Acquisition of SpiceJet would likely speed up consolidation in the money-losing Indian airline business. [C9.] HOT STOCK MARKETS IN INDIA India's stock markets are on a roll, surpassing even the rosiest forecasts, in part because of a young, wealthy, expanding middle class banking on India's aggressive corporate growth. [C4.] ROBOT CAR'S LATEST MODEL The team of Stanford University engineers that won $2 million in a Pentagon-sponsored robot car contest in 2005 unveiled its next-generation vehicle, which will maneuver in traffic without a human driver. [C3.] S.E.C. CHARGES LAWYERS The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil suit against two lawyers, one a former enforcement lawyer for the commission, charging that they had played important roles in a penny stock fraud that cost investors at least $160,000 in 2005. [C5.] CONDENSED ADS Honda will be the sole sponsor of what Sony Pictures Television is calling the Minisode Network on MySpace, which will show vintage television series edited down to 4 to 6 minutes. To mirror the pared-down programming, Honda will run only eight seconds of commercials with each episode. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C5.] PENSION PROMISES COME DUE IN N.J. New Jersey's history of granting state workers generous retirement benefits, combined with years of skipping payments into the system, have undermined the state's ability to meet its pension obligations. [A1.] HIRING FROM A BIGGER POOL The Center for Venture Education in Palo Alto, Calif., is trying to improve the record of technology investors in integrating African-Americans, Hispanics and particularly minority women into their ranks. V.C. Nation. [C4.] DRUG MAKER'S PROBATION ENDS A two-year probation for Bristol-Myers Squibb ends today, freeing the company from federal supervision after a major accounting scandal and other misconduct. [C7.]

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks the daily closing price of Bear Stearns shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); FILIBUSTER (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (84%); TAX INCREASES (79%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); RESORTS (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (69%); POLITICS (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (62%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); LEAD (61%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); RC2 CORP (65%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (65%); NAICS423910 SPORTING & RECREATIONAL GOODS & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (65%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



276 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 16412 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: June 15 - June 21

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition. Theater Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 
 Previews and Openings 'BEYOND GLORY' In previews; opens on Thursday. War stories from Stephen Lang form the basis of this solo play, based on the tales of eight veterans from World War II, Korea and Vietnam (1:20). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. 'ELVIS PEOPLE' In previews; opens on Thursday. Explore the obsessive world of Elvis fans in this new drama about the influence of the King (2:00). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. 'EURYDICE' In previews; opens on Monday. The hot young playwright Sarah Ruhl (''The Clean House'') gives her spin on the classic myth of Orpheus and Eurydice (1:30). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422. 'FALSETTOLAND' In previews; opens on Sunday. The National Asian-American Theater company brings back its revival of William Finn's musical about a gay man trying to deal with his wife, his lover and the approaching bar mitzvah of his son (1:40). Dimson Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 279-4200. 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: THE ROAST OF UTOPIA' Through Aug 22. The master parodists return with an excellent title and new jokes at the expense of ''Spring Awakening,'' ''Mary Poppins'' and other shows (1:30). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. 'GONE MISSING' In previews; opens on June 24. The Civilians revive this play with music; based on interviews, it revolves around the theme of loss (1:30). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. 'OLD ACQUAINTANCE' In previews; opens on June 28. The Roundabout presents a new revival of John Van Druten's drawing room comedy about two childhood friends who grow up to be very different adults (2:15). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. 'RADIO' In previews; opens on Sunday. A coming of age is paralleled with the growth of the Apollo space program in this new drama in the Brits Off Broadway festival (1:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. 'ROMEO AND JULIET' In previews; opens on June 24. Oscar Isaac and Lauren Ambrose play the star-crossed lovers in this new Shakespeare in the Park production. Michael Greif (''Rent'') directs. Delacorte Theater in Central Park, midpark at 80th Street, (212) 539-8750. Broadway 'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley) * 'COMPANY' (Tony Award, best revival of a musical 2007) Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'CURTAINS' This musical comedy about a musical-comedy murder -- featuring songs by John Kander and Fred Ebb and a book by Rupert Holmes -- lies on the stage like a promisingly gaudy string of firecrackers, waiting in vain for a match. The good news is that David Hyde Pierce, playing a diffident Boston detective, steps into full-fledged Broadway stardom. Scott Ellis directs a talent-packed cast that includes Debra Monk and Karen Ziemba. (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'DEUCE' Back on Broadway for the first time in 25 years, Angela Lansbury is so vitally and indelibly present that she even gives flesh to this flimsy comedy. Terrence McNally's play, about the reunion of two former doubles partners (Ms. Lansbury and Marian Seldes), is a jerry-built shrine to enduring star power. Directed by Michael Blakemore (1:45). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'FROST/NIXON' Frank Langella turns in a truly titanic performance as Richard M. Nixon in Peter Morgan's briskly entertaining, if all-too-tidy, play about the former president's annihilating television interviews with the British talk show host David Frost (the excellent Michael Sheen). Michael Grandage directs with the momentum of a ticking-bomb thriller and the zing of a boulevard comedy (1:40). Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'GREY GARDENS' Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'INHERIT THE WIND' Doug Hughes's wooden revival of this worthy war horse, based on the Scopes ''monkey'' trial of 1925, never musters much more velocity than a drugstore fan. Be grateful that the cast includes Christopher Plummer, in savory form as a Will Rogers of jurisprudence. An oddly subdued Brian Dennehy plays his pompous adversary (2:00). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'LEGALLY BLONDE' This nonstop sugar rush of a musical about a powder puff who finds her inner power-broker, based on the 2001 film, approximates the experience of eating a jumbo bag of Gummi Bears in one sitting. Flossing between songs is recommended (2:20). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'LOVEMUSIK' As Lotte Lenya and Kurt Weill, Donna Murphy and Michael Cerveris turn in stunningly shaded performances in what is, alas, a sluggish, mixed-up bio-musical. Scored with an eclectic sampler of Weill's songs, ''LoveMusik'' strives to achieve chilly distance and cozy intimacy in the same breath. Harold Prince directs; Alfred Uhry wrote the conventionally sentimental book (2:40). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) '110 IN THE SHADE' Is it possible for a performance to be too good? Audra McDonald brings such breadth of skill and depth of feeling to Lonny Price's lukewarm revival of this musical about a love-starved spinster that she threatens to burst the seams. She's an overwhelming presence in an underwhelming show (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley) 'RADIO GOLF' The final -- and in dramatic terms, the weakest -- of August Wilson's magnificent 10-play cycle about the African-American experience, ''Radio Golf'' has the crackle of a bustling comedy. But this tale of getting and spending in the 1990s, directed by Kenny Leon, throbs with a lament for a lost time, a lost culture, a lost language (2:30). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'SPRING AWAKENING' (Tony Award, best musical 2007) Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood) * 'TALK RADIO' The most lacerating portrait of a human meltdown this side of a Francis Bacon painting. Playing an abrasive radio talk show host with a God complex, the astounding Liev Schreiber seems to fill the air as inescapably as weather in Robert Falls's gut-grabbing revival of Eric Bogosian's 1987 play (1:40). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING' Joan Didion's arresting but ultimately frustrating adaptation of her best-selling memoir about being blindsided by grief, starring Vanessa Redgrave. The tension between style and emotional content that made the book such a stunner does not translate to the stage. The substance here is in the silences, when the focus shifts from words to Ms. Redgrave's wry face (1:40). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) Off Broadway 'CRAZY MARY' Sigourney Weaver and Kristine Nielsen serve their specialties (WASP tartness, madcap madness) with such gusto in A. R. Gurney's comedy that it feels ungallant to point out that their characters are as artificial as hard-plastic dolls. A contrived play that never quite connects its thoughtful mind with its sentimental heart (2:00). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley) 'ELECTRA' An ''adaptation'' of Sophocles' play that is more of a spoof of a Greek tragedy than any serious attempt to revive one (1:10). The HAS Theater, 645 St. Nicholas Avenue, at 141st Street, Hamilton Heights, (212) 868-4444.(Wilborn Hampton) ENSEMBLE STUDIO THEATER MARATHON 2007: SERIES A Neil LaBute's contemporary gloss on a classic tale of Greek vengeance is the highlight of the first round in this annual series of short plays. Dana Delany and Victor Slezak are woman scorned and cad of a hubby in a gruesome drama that packs a visceral punch. Unfortunately, Mr. LaBute's play comes last in a mostly unrewarding program (2:00). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101. (Isherwood) 'ESCAPE FROM BELLEVUE' This showcase for the band the Knockout Drops is less a theatrical experience than a slightly uncomfortable hybrid of a stand-up routine and a rock concert. It is also the agreeable if predictable memoir of the lead singer, Christopher John Campion, who narrates his own story -- heavy substance abuse, a couple of trips to Bellevue, a brave new life -- with a knack for anecdote and an ear for dialogue, like a particularly good storyteller at the corner bar. But ultimately, a rock musical, even one as understated as this, rises or falls with its music; fortunately, this band, though a little stolid, is pretty good (1:30). The Village Theater, 158 Bleecker Street, (212) 307-7171. (Anne Midgette) 'FROM RIVERDALE TO RIVERHEAD' Like a spinoff of the ''Saturday Night Live'' skit ''Bronx Beat,'' three strident, shallow sisters dominate this road play by Anastasia Traina, which repeatedly strikes the notes of a comedy skit but steadily increases the volume to an uncomfortable level of cruelty. Louise (Angelica Torn), her sisters and her luminous and quirky daughter, Rosie (Bess Rous), are driving to visit Louise's son in prison, enduring Louise's loud outbursts of self-pity that escalate into hysteria and abuse. The whole play focuses on these four women in the car, evoking the ''Are we there yet?'' of a family trip until it finally, in every sense, veers off the road (2:00). Studio Dante, 257 West 29th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-4500. (Midgette) 'GASLIGHT' The Irish Repertory Theater's revival of Patrick Hamilton's 1938 thriller about a husband intent on driving his wife mad strips away the claustrophobia and ably resists cliched feminist interpretation. As the impish detective who saves the day, Brian Murray is the play's great leavening agent. He prompts the heroine to whiskey drinking, and you want to raise a glass to him (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. (Ginia Bellafante) 'HORIZON' God is in the curriculum in Rinde Eckert's lively portrait of a theologian, an homage to the ''Christian realism'' of Reinhold Niebuhr. But even the fiercest secularist should find pleasure in this engaging performance piece, set in the seminary-without-walls of one man's mind (1:25). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 460-8996. (Brantley) * 'IN THE HEIGHTS' Lin-Manuel Miranda's joyous songs paint a vibrant portrait of daily life in Washington Heights in this flawed but enjoyable show. Essentially a valentine to the barrio -- conflict of a violent or desperate kind is banished from the picture -- the musical contains a host of funny performances and brings the zesty sound of Latin pop to the stage. (2:10). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Isherwood) 'IN A DARK DARK HOUSE' Neil LaBute's latest work, a tale of two badly behaving brothers (played by Frederick Weller and Ron Livingston), is about American adolescence and how it is warped, stolen and willfully extended. Before the double-knotted plot twists take over, it's a cold-eyed, absorbing drama that testifies to its author's very real talents (1:30). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley) * 'PASSING STRANGE' The composer and performer Stew narrates this semiautobiographical show about a songwriter on a journey of self-discovery. Part rock concert, part book musical, it flows smoothly on a strong current of feeling and humor as the Los Angeles-born central character searches for his musical voice in the hash bars of Amsterdam and the cabarets of Berlin (2:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555. (Isherwood) * 'THE RETURN OF THE PRODIGAL' The Mint Theater Company has unearthed this enthralling Edwardian drama by St. John Hankin about a lazy charmer who returns home to blackmail his wealthy family (2:00). The Mint Theater Company, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 315-0231. (Jason Zinoman) * 'THE RULES OF CHARITY' A man with cerebral palsy and the daughter who cares for him are at the center of this scalding play by John Belluso, which hits none of the familiar notes of the works-about-the-disabled genre but many thought-provoking ones. The performances, by the troupe Theater by the Blind, stick with you, along with the unsettling ideas of the play (2:00). Lion Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Neil Genzlinger) * 'SPALDING GRAY: STORIES LEFT TO TELL' A disarming collage of selections from the monologues and journals of Mr. Gray, the ultimate stand-up solipsist, who died in 2004. Directed by Lucy Sexton, and read by five performers, none of whom resemble Mr. Gray, with an affection that shrewdly stops short of hero worship (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) Off Off Broadway 'the house of bernarda alba' A first-rate revival in an adaptation that is somewhat abbreviated but maintains the play's tragic claustrophobia. A fine cast that includes a 12-member chorus that dances the flamenco (1:40). Nagelberg Theater, Baruch Performing Arts Center, 55 Lexington Avenue, at 25th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Hampton) 'TIME FLIES AND OTHERS BY IVES' An amusing collection of comic playlets by David Ives embraces the little guy (1:35). Laurie Beechman Theater, 407 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman) Long-Running Shows 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' A pasteboard pastiche of 1920's musicals, as remembered by a witty show queen (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'TARZAN' A writhing green blob with music (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 254 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) Last Chance 'THE PIRATE QUEEN' How to river-dance your way to the bottom of the ocean, courtesy of the songwriters of ''Les Miserables'' (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100; closes on Sunday. (Brantley) 'TEA' Age-blind casting is a great strength of the Pan Asian Repertory Theater's production of this play about four Japanese war brides who gather in 1968 to clean up the house of a fifth, who has killed herself. But the play itself crams verbiage and melodrama into what feels like a television epic, complete with that most stereotypical of figures, the dead woman's ghost seeking liberation into the next world. The whole thing goes down like a long soap opera, though the actresses do their best to bring it all to life (1:30). West End Theater, 263 West 86th Street, (212) 352-3101; closes on Sunday. (Midgette) Movies Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies. 'AMU' (No rating, 102 minutes, in English, Bengali, Hindi and Punjabi) This ambitious first feature by Shonali Bose, about Kaju, a young Indian-American woman searching for the real India and for her roots, begins as a gentle comedy of cultures clashing. Its true topic, though, is the riots that broke out in Delhi in 1984 after Indira Gandhi's assassination. Thousands of Sikhs were killed, and as Kaju learns, justice has been delayed and denied. (Rachel Saltz) * 'AWAY FROM HER' (PG-13, 110 minutes) Sarah Polley's well-observed adaptation of a story by Alice Munro is a quiet tour de force about love and loss, anchored by fine performances by Gordon Pinsent and Julie Christie as a couple dealing with the loss of memory and memories of past hurt. (A. O. Scott) 'THE BOSS OF IT ALL' (No rating, 99 minutes, in Danish) To describe ''The Boss of It All,'' Lars von Trier's acidic corporate comedy, as '' 'The Office' viewed through the looking glass'' only scratches the surface of the newest film from one of the foremost tricksters of world cinema. (Stephen Holden) * 'BRAND UPON THE BRAIN' (No rating, 96 minutes) A baroque entertainment with one foot in silent cinema and the other gingerly toeing the sound waves, Guy Maddin's latest centers on a man who, in visiting a now-emptied foundling home, journeys deep into his childhood. It's wild! It's weird! It's strangely touching and a total must-see! (Manohla Dargis) 'BROOKLYN RULES' (R, 99 minutes) However authentic and heartfelt this film's depiction of life on the meaner streets of the Northeast corridor may be, its story of three friends growing up in a mob-infested Brooklyn neighborhood doesn't begin to match ''The Sopranos'' in its epic vision of violence, class struggle and upward mobility in a barbarous culture. (Holden) 'BUG' (R, 102 minutes) In this overwrought psychodrama from the director William Friedkin, Ashley Judd's acting continues to surpass her career choices. Playing a shaky Oklahoma barmaid, she convincingly juggles an abusive husband (Harry Connick Jr.) and a newfound lover (Michael Shannon) who sees creepy-crawlies in the mattress and conspiracies everywhere. Though the movie's escalating hysteria may strain credulity, Ms. Judd has never been more believable as a woman condemned to attract the wrong kind of man. (Jeannette Catsoulis) 'CHALK' (PG-13, 105 minutes) This loose-jointed ensemble mockumentary about high school teachers is funny in a squirm-inducing way. (Holden) 'CRAZY LOVE' (PG-13, 92 minutes) Love is blind, and so too is Linda Pugach, one of the loony-tuners in Dan Klores's somewhat sickening, mildly gonzo documentary. In 1959 Mrs. Pugach, then 22 and known as Linda Riss, was blinded by her husband-to-be Burton Pugach, a Bronx ambulance chaser who single-mindedly pursued the object of his obsession all the way to the marriage altar. (Dargis) 'DAY WATCH' (R, 140 minutes, in Russian) Picking up a number of years after ''Night Watch'' concludes, this second installment in Timur Bekmambetov's bustling supernatural trilogy dazzles and confuses with equal determination. Less coherent than its predecessor, if equally creative, the movie depicts hidden dimensions teeming with beings who swap bodies at will and rewrite destiny with something called the Chalk of Fate. Perhaps the Fickle Finger was otherwise engaged. (Catsoulis) * 'HOLLYWOOD DREAMS' (R, 100 minutes) Filled with movie memories and gender confusion, Henry Jaglom's 15th and most accessible film finds him in a gentler, more wistful mood. Using a rabidly fame-smitten starlet (Tanna Frederick) as his fulcrum, Mr. Jaglom muses over the burdens of fame and the price of success. Knowing but never jaded, the movie is driven by Ms. Frederick's no-boundaries commitment to her broken character, a performance that's as startling as it is touching. (Catsoulis) 'HOSTEL: PART II' (R, 94 minutes) A trio of American female students are brutalized and butchered by the rich and twisted in Eli Roth's follow-up to his generally odious ''Hostel.'' Both installments are driven by the same low motivation: to push the boundaries of exploitative nastiness. (Laura Kern) * 'KILLER OF SHEEP' (No rating, 83 minutes) Largely hidden from view for three decades, Charles Burnett's lyrical film about a working-class family living in a broken-down home in a bombed-out stretch of Los Angeles is an American masterpiece. (Dargis) * 'KNOCKED UP' (R, 129 minutes) Foul of mouth and true of heart, this new comedy from Judd Apatow (''The 40-Year-Old Virgin'') captures the sexual and moral confusion of the present moment remarkably well. Seth Rogen and Katherine Heigl are unlikely bedfellows but perfect comic foils as a shlub-babe couple whose one-night stand leans to an unintended but not unwelcome pregnancy. (Scott) 'MR. BROOKS' (R, 120 minutes) Kevin Costner and William Hurt camp it up as a serial killer and his demonic alter ego in ''Mr. Brooks,'' a werewolf movie masquerading as a sophisticated thriller. (Holden) * 'OCEAN'S THIRTEEN' (PG-13, 113 minutes) The gang's all here, looking fighting trim and Hollywood beautiful, at your disposable pleasure. Steven Soderbergh shoots and directs, while George, Brad and the rest hustle and flow. (Dargis) * 'ONCE' (R, 88 minutes) A modest, scruffy movie about two musicians who meet on a Dublin street and sort of fall in love. Charming, touching and true. (Scott) * 'PAPRIKA' (R, 90 minutes, in Japanese) In this gorgeous riot of future-shock ideas and brightly animated imagery, the doors of perception never close. Satoshi Kon's mind-twisting, eye-tickling anime isn't greasy kid's stuff: it's for thinking, interested adults whose sense of wonder remains as alive as their imaginations. (Dargis) * 'PIERREPOINT: THE LAST HANGMAN' (R, 90 minutes) In this meditation on capital punishment and culpability, Timothy Spall, British film's quintessential blundering bloke, sinks his teeth into one of the juiciest roles of his career. His character, Albert Pierrepoint, a once-celebrated English hangman, executed more than 600 people (including 200 Nazi war criminals) from the early 1930s to the mid-1950s. (Holden) 'PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN: AT WORLD'S END' (PG-13, 167 minutes) This third and perhaps final episode in Gore Verbinski's swishy, swashbuckling saga wisely returns to the high-seas high jinks that made the first film so enjoyable. In service to a typically convoluted plot -- involving British perfidy, pieces of eight and a Godzilla-size sorceress -- all the usual suspects return to lie, swindle and marvel at Keith Richards's longevity, if not his line delivery. Jack Sparrow hallucinates, Barbossa agitates, and Elizabeth Swann is elected Pirate King. Really. Mr. Verbinski knows who wears the trousers in his trilogy. (Catsoulis) 'SHREK THE THIRD' (PG, 93 minutes) The ogre faces impending fatherhood and a career crisis. (Scott) 'SHOWBUSINESS' (PG, 102 minutes) This documentary by Dori Bernstein follows four Broadway musicals from rehearsal through the 2004 Tony Awards: ''Caroline, or Change''; ''Taboo''; ''Avenue Q''; and ''Wicked.'' On top of the usual challenges (fund-raising, rewrites, tryouts, marketing), they all had to endure scrutiny by theater critics and gossip columnists. Lively, sometimes cutting but mostly humane, ''ShowBusiness'' is packed with telling details. (Matt Zoller Seitz) 'SURF'S UP' (PG, 90 minutes) Treading eagerly on the flippers of last year's ''Happy Feet'' comes this ho-hum, computer-animated comedy featuring birds on boards. As a young Rockhopper penguin (voiced by Shia LaBeouf) heads for his first professional surfing competition, he learns about love, perseverance and that winning isn't everything. Though infused with a friendly, blue-collar vibe, the movie suggests that a moratorium on penguins might be called for -- despite the inevitable anthropomorphic void. (Catsoulis) * 'TEN CANOES' (No rating, 90 minutes, in various Yolngu Aboriginal dialects) There is nothing more enthralling than a good yarn, and the mesmerizing ''Ten Canoes'' interweaves two versions of the same Australian Aboriginal fable, one filmed in black and white and set a thousand years ago and an even older one, filmed in color and set in prehistoric times. (Holden) * 28 WEEKS LATER' (R, 91 minutes) The virus that killed off most of England -- after turning its population into rabid, flesh-hungry zombies -- seems to be under control at the start of this terrifying sequel to ''28 Days Later.'' But if anything, the horror is deeper, and the social criticism more acute. (Scott) * 'THE VALET' (PG-13, 85 minutes, in French) If you love to hate the superrich, this delectable comedy, in which the great French actor Daniel Auteuil portrays a piggy billionaire industrialist facing his comeuppance, is a sinfully delicious bonbon, a classic French farce with modern touches. (Holden) * 'WAITRESS' (PG-13, 104 minutes) Keri Russell is a small-town waitress in a bad marriage who finds solace in pie-baking and adultery in Adrienne Shelly's wry and winning final feature. (Scott) * 'YEAR OF THE DOG' (PG-13, 97 minutes) Mike White's touching comedy about a woman who loses a dog and finds herself is funny ha-ha but firmly in touch with its downer side, which means that it's also funny in a kind of existential way. Molly Shannon stars alongside a menagerie of howling scene-stealers. (Dargis) Film Series TO SAVE AND PROJECT: THE FIFTH MoMA INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL OF FILM PRESERVATION (Today through Monday) This richly varied series of films recently restored by the Museum of Modern Art and other members of the International Federation of Film Archives comes to an end this weekend, but there are still some remarkable things to see: The 1942 film ''A Pilot Returns'' (Friday) is one of the propaganda films made for Mussolini's government by Roberto Rossellini, whose politics changed abruptly (''Open City'') at the war's end; August Blom's ''End of the World'' (Saturday) is an apocalyptic thriller made in Denmark in 1916; ''A Man There Was'' (Saturday) is a 1917 feature by Sweden's first major filmmaker, Victor Sjostrom. Sunday brings a double feature of experimental films by Hollis Frampton, ''Zorns Lemma'' and ''Winter Solstice,'' as preserved by MoMA. The festival ends on Monday with Noel Black's cult favorite ''Pretty Poison''; ''Mata Hari,'' a 1931 George Fitzmaurice film featuring Greta Garbo's sexiest pre-code performance; and Otto Preminger's dark and stately 1947 melodrama, ''Daisy Kenyon,'' with Joan Crawford and Henry Fonda. Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Dave Kehr) THREE BY JAMES BENNING (Today through Thursday) Nothing seems more ordinary than the notion of a landscape photographer, but a landscape filmmaker is something exceptional -- which is just what James Benning is. His work discovers movement and change where others have for so long seen stasis and permanence. The Anthology Film Archives will be screening three of Mr. Benning's recent films in rotation this week, beginning tonight with ''13 Lakes'' and ''Ten Skies'' (both made in 2004), and adding ''One Way Boogie Woogie/27 Years Later,'' a 2005 revisitation of Mr. Benning's celebrated 1977 film ''One Way Boogie Woogie.'' Anthology Film Archives, 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $8. (Kehr) Pop Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music. LILY ALLEN (Sunday) A 22-year-old British singer with deceptively sweet, ska-infused pop songs, Ms. Allen is at her wry and snarky best when putting down disagreeable suitors. ''Smile,'' a No. 1 hit in England, is pure schadenfreude, and ''Knock 'Em Out'' a catalog of snappy answers to bad pickup lines: ''I've got herpes. No, I've got syphilis.'' At 8 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505, warsawconcerts.com; $25. (Ben Sisario) APOSTLE OF HUSTLE, MEMPHIS (Tomorrow and Monday) More evidence that Canada might have more side projects than actual bands: Apostle of Hustle, featuring Andrew Whiteman of Broken Social Scene, plays dreamy washes of guitar over an easygoing rock pulse, recalling the soft points of U2's ''Unforgettable Fire.'' Memphis includes Torquil Campbell of Stars, the superbly urbane indie-cabaret band from Toronto, whose songs are evoked but not equaled by Memphis's delicate melodies and cool dissection of heartbreak. Tomorrow at 9 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; $10. Monday at 9 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $12. (Sisario) * BRAKESBRAKESBRAKES, PELA (Tonight through Sunday) Led by the snarlingly persistent Eamon Hamilton, Brakesbrakesbrakes packs a lifetime of resentment into a taut two-minute power-pop song and turns to wistful country-folk to simmer down. (The band is known simply as Brakes back home in England, but uses the unwieldy triplicate here to distinguish itself from another band named Brakes.) Pela, from Brooklyn, calls its style ''pastoral punk,'' which means wide-open skies of bouncy, Pixiesesque basslines and sharp, sparkling guitars. With Electric Soft Parade. Tonight at 9:30, Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $14. Tomorrow at 9 p.m. and Sunday at 8 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $12 in advance, $14 at the door. (Sisario) FAB FAUX (Tuesday and Wednesday) There are Beatles tribute acts, and then there are Beatles tribute acts. This one, featuring the bassist Will Lee (of the ''Late Show With David Letterman'' band) and the guitarist Jimmy Vivino (from ''Late Night With Conan O'Brien''), recreates even the most complex studio work of the later Beatles without breaking a sweat. These two concerts are billed as a full-career Beatles survey: ''From the Cavern to the Rooftop.'' At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario) * MICHAEL FEINSTEIN (Tonight and tomorrow night) In the final two performances of ''Celebrating Bobby Short,'' Mr. Feinstein's funny, touching, meticulously researched tribute to this cabaret legend, who died two years ago, his special guests are Barbara Carroll (tonight) and Charles Cochran (tomorrow). This is the jazziest show of Mr. Feinstein's career, and he confidently stands his ground. At 8:30 and 11, Feinstein's at Loews Regency, 540 Park Avenue, at 61st Street, (212) 339-4095, feinsteinsattheregency.com; $75 cover, with a $40 minimum. (Stephen Holden) ALBERT HAMMOND JR. (Monday) The sunshine of ''Yours to Keep'' (Scratchie/New Line), the debut solo album by Mr. Hammond, of the Strokes, shows that crisp guitar classicism need not exist solely in the dark behind Manhattan's velvet ropes. With the Dead Trees and Medium Cool. At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $20 in advance, $23 at the door. (Sisario) * YUKA HONDA (Tomorrow) The keyboardist half of the fondly remembered 1990s avant-pop duo Cibo Matto -- who sang kitschy and hilarious confections about the infinite bounty of junk food -- Yuka Honda has kept busy as a solo artist and collaborator. Tomorrow, in a show presented by Tonic, she unveils a new project with Petra Haden, whose own ambitions include an a cappella cover of the Who's album ''The Who Sell Out.'' Also on hand: Sean Lennon, Cyro Baptista and DJ Olive. At 8 p.m., Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (212) 352-3101, abronsartscenter.org or tonicnyc.com; $15. (Sisario) LYLE LOVETT, K. D. LANG (Thursday) Lyle Lovett uses the ache in his voice to sound utterly heartfelt even when his songs grow wry and absurd, while his limber band covers the Texas spectrum from swing to honky-tonk to gospel. K. D. Lang's big, sultry voice harks back to a bygone era, when pop and country singers knew how to linger over a song's melody. But in the material she writes and chooses, she has a postmodern self-consciousness, embracing lavish emotions without giving in to them entirely. At 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-7171, radiocity.com; $45.50 to $101. (Jon Pareles) MASCOTT (Tuesday) If Aimee Mann had fended off cynicism, she might sound like Kendall Meade, the songwriter and singer of Mascott. Ms. Meade's serenely tuneful songs turn folk-rock into stately pop, wrapping vulnerability and longing in quietly radiant arrangements. With Graham Smith, Ghosts I've Met and Twin Thousands. At 8 p.m., Cake Shop, 152 Ludlow Street, between Stanton and Rivington Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 253-0036, cake-shop.com; $7. (Pareles) MIDSUMMER NIGHT SWING (Tuesday through Thursday) Lincoln Center's annual outdoor series of low-dipping, high-kicking music and dancing opens on Tuesday with George Gee's Make Believe Ballroom Orchestra and David Berger's Sultans of Swing recreating ''The Count Meets the Duke,'' the 1961 ''duel'' between Count Basie and Duke Ellington. On Wednesday is Charanga Soleil, which mixes salsa with Congolese guitar rumba and Haitian rara drumming; Thursday is a disco party for Gay Pride Week, with Jai Rodriguez as the host. At 7:30 p.m., with dance lessons at 6:30 p.m., Josie Robertson Plaza, Columbus Avenue at 63rd Street, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $15. (Sisario) * MIKA (Tonight) A 23-year-old British singer driven ''identity mad'' by his pop-culture obsessions -- ''I tried to be Grace Kelly/But all her looks were too sad'' -- Mika aims for the glittery pop bombast of Elton John and Queen, and has the gumption to pull it off. With Sara Bareilles. At 8, Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171, nokiatheatrenyc.com; sold out. (Sisario) O'DEATH (Tonight) This raw and ragged New York band draws from the starkness and spiritual purity of Appalachian folk, the menace of punk and the rowdy theatricality of Tom Waits, jumbling sacred and profane. Tonight O'Death celebrates the re-release of its album ''Head Home'' (Ernest Jenning). With the Reverend Peyton's Big Damn Band and the Super Monster. At 8, Luna Lounge, 361 Metropolitan Avenue, at Havemeyer Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, lunalounge.com; $12. (Sisario) * ONEIDA (Tonight and tomorrow night) Things are best in Oneida songs when the patterns of drums, keyboards and guitar converge into powerful, pulsating drones that seem to summon some primordial rock energy. And though this veteran Brooklyn band's latest album, ''Happy New Year'' (Jagjaguwar), also toys with some medieval-ish folk, there is plenty of that eerie, cathartic blare. Tonight at 8, with Dirty Faces, Brass Castle, Repellent and others, at Trash Bar, 256 Grand Street, at Roebling Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn (718) 599-1000, thetrashbar.com; $7. Tomorrow at 9 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; free. (Sisario) * PANDA BEAR (Monday) Noah Lennox, better known as Panda Bear, is one of the singers and captains of disorientation in Animal Collective. In that band and on his recent solo album, ''Person Pitch'' (Paw Tracks), he sends the sunniest Beach Boys melodies through endless psychedelic transformations, sometimes elegant and sometimes terrifying. With Rusty Santos and Kria Brekken. At 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario) MACEO PARKER (Sunday) As the alto saxophonist for James Brown in his prime funk years and later for George Clinton's Parliament-Funkadelic, Mr. Parker has an impeccable pedigree and the skills to match. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $35 in advance, $37 at the door. (Sisario) PEACHES (Wednesday) For Peaches, a former Canadian schoolteacher who became the uninhibited queen of electroclash, sex is everything: liberating force, political stage, social equalizer. Rap-singing over sparse, nervy electronic beats, she is a dance-floor dominatrix who demands pleasure, and demands it her way. (''Just one thing I can't compromise/I want to see you work it guy-on-guy.'') ''Guests'' are promised; expect them to end up entangled with their host in one way or another. At 10 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $30 in advance, $35 at the door. (Sisario) MADELEINE PEYROUX, JOSH RITTER (Tomorrow) Like Norah Jones, Ms. Peyroux has become a star by pursuing a gentle and sophisticated, jazz-inflected style -- a jazz-folk halfway point between Billie Holiday and Patsy Cline -- that has no place in the mainstream music business but whose honesty and finesse has struck a chord. Also on the bill is Josh Ritter, a songwriter whose guileless, boy-next-door voice belies the depth and ambition of his songs, whether he is confessing a simple crush or following his thoughts on a long, Whitmanesque incantation. At 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 307-7171, beacontheatrenyc.com; $35 to $65. (Sisario) A. R. RAHMAN (Tomorrow) Mr. Rahman became king of the Bollywood soundtrack in the 1990s with a candied, Westernized style that borrows some tricks from Andrew Lloyd Webber. No wonder, then, that Mr. Lloyd Webber looked to him to write the music for ''Bombay Dreams.'' At 8 p.m., Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, N.Y., (631) 888-9000, nassaucoliseum.com; $35 to $300. (Sisario) IKE REILLY ASSASSINATION (Tonight) An eloquent wiseguy whose songs evoke Bob Dylan and Paul Westerberg, Mr. Reilly, a former bellhop and gravedigger from Chicago, has the kind of high-energy, hook-heavy folk-rock sound that turns every head in a bar, while his nasal vocals are unsparingly sardonic: ''The friends that you rely on are the train tracks that you lie on.'' With Band of Thieves and the New York Howl. At 8, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15. (Sisario) BUFFY SAINTE-MARIE (Monday) This 1960s protest folker and longtime champion of American Indian rights will surely sing ''Now That the Buffalo's Gone'' and ''Until It's Time for You to Go,'' and maybe even ''Cod'ine,'' which became a garage-rock standard. But fans will wonder -- and maybe cringe at the thought -- that she will also do her best-known number: ''Up Where We Belong,'' the mawkish 1982 smash sung by Joe Cocker and Jennifer Warnes, which Ms. Sainte-Marie wrote with Will Jennings and Jack Nitzsche, then her husband. With Krystle Warren. At 7:30 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $30. (Sisario) * TELEVISION, APPLES IN STEREO, DRAGONS OF ZYNTH (Tomorrow) The jam band of the CBGB era, Television proved that bare art-rock need not have any aesthetic limitations, as Tom Verlaine and Richard Lloyd's guitars wailed in spiky, sinuous counterpoint, and its songs mushroomed into free-form odysseys of melody and noise. Reunited a couple of times since the early '90s, the band doesn't play often enough, but tomorrow it headlines an afternoon at Central Park SummerStage, with Apples in Stereo, a band from Denver that plays power-pop in bright, primary colors; and Dragons of Zynth, which claims to have an ''auto-physio-psychic'' approach to noisemaking. At 3 p.m., Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 360-2777, summerstage.org; free. (Sisario) * RICHARD THOMPSON, OLLABELLE (Thursday) From his days as a guitar prodigy in Fairport Convention, Richard Thompson has set his musings on bitterness and romance to subtly virtuosic, Celtic-infused folk-rock. His new album, ''Sweet Warrior'' (Shout! Factory), dips into nuts-and-bolts '50s rock for a series of stark tableaus of a world in conflict, from spiteful exes to a terrified, death-haunted young soldier in Iraq. The vocal quintet Ollabelle worships blues, country and gospel with crystalline voices and wide eyes, playing traditional songs like ''John the Revelator'' and originals that connect them to classic roots-rock. At 7 p.m., Celebrate Brooklyn, Prospect Park Bandshell, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, (718) 855-7882, brooklynx.org; $3 suggested donation. (Sisario) MARY TIMONY (Tonight) Mary Timony, who led the band Helium, has kept her tightly wound guitar riffs but has gradually left behind the personality crises of indie-rock to ponder higher thoughts and cosmic forces. At 8, with High Places and Eric Gaffney, at Death By Audio, 49 South Second Street, between Wythe and Kent Avenues, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, toddpnyc.com; $8. (Pareles) TRUE COLORS TOUR (Monday) In the best girls'-night-out package tour to come along in years, Cyndi Lauper appears with Debbie Harry, Erasure and a couple of rowdier underground bands: the heavily mascara'd, cabaret-goth Dresden Dolls, and the Gossip, a trio that plays bare but potent blues-punk. Also on the bill: Rosie O'Donnell and Margaret Cho. At 7 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-7171, radiocity.com; $51 to $205.50. (Sisario) * VOXTROT (Tonight) Like Morrissey or Ray Davies, Voxtrot's Ramesh Srivastava uses the small scale, tight script and jangly energy of the three-minute rock song -- as well as a fragile voice perfectly comfortable with its limitations -- to focus emotionally compelling character studies. After a steady stream of singles and mini-albums, this Austin, Tex., band finally released its debut LP last month (''Voxtrot,'' on Playlouder/Beggars), a triumph of angst and gush. With Favourite Sons and Au Revoir Simone. At 6, Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $20. (Sisario) MARY WILSON (Tuesday through Thursday) A Supreme from its founding in 1959 as the Primettes through all the group's post-Diana Ross incarnations, Mary Wilson comes to Feinstein's at Loews Regency for a two-week cabaret engagement. She's riding a wave of nostalgia in the wake of ''Dreamgirls,'' and her show is to feature standards -- in addition, of course, to Supremes hits. At 8:30 p.m., 540 Park Avenue, at 61st Street, (212) 339-4095, feinsteinsattheregency.com; $75 cover, with a $40 minimum. (Sisario) Jazz Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music. WESS ANDERSON QUARTET (Tuesday through Thursday) An alto saxophonist with a tart and bluesy sound, Mr. Anderson enjoys support here from the pianist Aaron Diehl, the bassist Kengo Nakamura and the drummer Jaz Sawyer. (Through June 24.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Nate Chinen) PETER APFELBAUM AND NEW YORK HIEROGLYPHICS (Tonight and tomorrow night) Peter Apfelbaum, a multireedist and pianist, has been celebrating the 30th anniversary of this adventurous African-inspired band, with a roll call that includes Abdoulaye Diabate on vocals and Charles Burnham on violin. At 9 and 10:30, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15. (Chinen) RICARDO ARIAS (Tomorrow) Mr. Arias is a Colombian-born improviser whose instrumental arsenal often includes a cluster of balloons. He presents a new commission, ''Trying and Erring,'' for a group that includes the percussionist Sean Meehan and the trumpeter Nate Wooley. At 6 p.m., Bronx River Art Center, 1087 East Tremont Avenue, at West Farms Square, Fordham, (718) 589-5819, bronxriverart.org; $10 suggested donation. (Chinen) MICHAEL ATTIAS'S TWINES OF COLESION (Monday) A composer with a taste for inquisitive frictions, Mr. Attias presents a group featuring his fellow saxophonist Tony Malaby, along with Russ Lossing on Wurlitzer piano, John Hebert on bass and Satoshi Takeishi on drums. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) BILLY BANG (Tonight) With his solo violin piece inspired by the Lewis deSoto sculpture ''Paranirvana,'' part of a current exhibition, Mr. Bang provides a fitting season finale to the Rubin Museum's Harlem in the Himalayas series. At 7, Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org; $20. (Chinen) CARIBBEAN JAZZ PROJECT (Wednesday and Thursday) A breezy Latin jazz combo ably led by the vibraphone and marimba specialist Dave Samuels, the Caribbean Jazz Project welcomes a special guest next week: the excellent Brazilian guitarist Romero Lubambo. (Through June 23.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. (Chinen) CHOURMO (Tonight) The resourcefully subversive guitarist David Torn has a new album on ECM that features his longtime colleagues Tim Berne, on alto saxophone, and Tom Rainey, on drums. This group is more of a collective affair, but potentially no less intriguing. At 9 and 10:30, Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, near Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; $5 suggested cover. (Chinen) ANTHONY COLEMAN TRIO (Tuesday) Anthony Coleman's stylistic world contains everything from the early jazz of his fellow pianist Jelly Roll Morton to the earlier nonjazz of classical and Sephardic folk music. He seems likely to lean toward free improvisation in this trio with the saxophonist Michael Attias and the cellist Fred Lonberg-Holm. At 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) ALEXIS CUADRADO'S PUZZLES QUARTET (Monday) Alexis Cuadrado, a Spanish-born, Brooklyn-residing bassist and composer, leads a rhythm-minded post-bop band with Jaleel Shaw on alto saxophone, Brad Shepik on guitar and Mark Ferber on drums. At 8 p.m., Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; $5 suggested cover. (Chinen) CARLO DeROSA QUARTET (Thursday) The well-traveled bassist Carlo DeRosa showcases original material in this ensemble with the tenor saxophonist Mark Shim, the pianist Luis Perdomo and the drummer Justin Brown. At 8:30 and 10 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) WAYNE ESCOFFERY QUARTET (Tuesday through Thursday) ''Veneration'' (Savant), a new album by the tenor saxophonist Wayne Escoffery, features sharp playing by a group that includes the vibraphonist Joe Locke and the drummer Lewis Nash. Those musicians resurface here alongside the bassist Dwayne Burno and the trumpeter Nicholas Payton. (Through June 24.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen) JOE FIEDLER TRIO (Thursday) Performing music from a forthcoming album, ''The Crab'' (Clean Feed), the trombonist Joe Fiedler calls upon the improvisational abilities of the bassist John Hebert and the drummer Mike Sarin. At 8 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) SONNY FORTUNE QUARTET (Sunday) Since the 1960s, countless saxophonists have adopted the methodology of John Coltrane, but few have captured his restless spirit. Sonny Fortune, who worked often with the Coltrane drummer Elvin Jones, is chief among them. Part of the JVC Jazz Festival. At 3 p.m., Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, 515 Malcolm X Boulevard, at West 135th Street, Harlem, (212) 491-2206; $20, $16 for members. (Chinen) GODFATHERS OF GROOVE (Tonight and tomorrow night) As their name suggests, the organist Reuben Wilson, the guitarist Grant Green Jr. and the drummer Bernard Purdie bring a wealth of experience to this soul-jazz enterprise. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $28. (Chinen) SCOTT HAMILTON QUARTET (Tuesday) A tenor saxophonist deeply conversant in swing traditions, and specifically the style of Zoot Sims, Scott Hamilton leads a quartet with Norman Simmons on piano, Jay Leonhart on bass and Chuck Riggs on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen) PHOEBE JACOBS -- A LIFE WELL-LIVED: A WORK STILL IN PROGRESS (Thursday) The contortions in the title of this tribute hardly capture the straightforward joy with which Ms. Jacobs, who is now approaching 90, has engaged the world of traditional jazz. Among those paying homage are the singer and pianist Barbara Carroll, the versatile clarinetist Ken Peplowski, the trumpeters Jon Faddis and Randy Sandke, and the ragtime piano specialist Terry Waldo. Part of the JVC Jazz Festival. At 8 p.m., Kaye Playhouse at Hunter College, 68th Street between Park and Lexington Avenues, (212) 772-4448, kayeplayhouse.hunter.cuny.edu; $45. (Chinen) * KEITH JARRETT, GARY PEACOCK, JACK DEJOHNETTE (Thursday) The standout jazz piano trio of the past 25 years, this ensemble derives much of its identity from the extemporizations of Mr. Jarrett, which can sound crisp and boppish one moment and fluidly romantic the next. But Mr. Peacock, an agile bassist, and Mr. DeJohnette, a deeply musical drummer, also play defining roles. Part of the JVC Jazz Festival. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, $35 to $90. (Chinen) KOMEDA PROJECT (Sunday) While best known for his haunting soundtracks to Roman Polanski films, the Polish pianist and composer Krzysztof Komeda made plenty of music that commands full engagement. This repertory quintet, led by the saxophonist Krzysztof Medyna and the pianist Andrzej Winnicki, explores that rich musical terrain. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) * LEE KONITZ QUARTET (Wednesday and Thursday) Lee Konitz brings his venerable reputation and dry-martini alto saxophone tone to a quartet with the bop-leaning guitarist Peter Bernstein. (Through June 23.) At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) STEVE LEHMAN QUINTET (Sunday) The saxophonist Steve Lehman pursues an abstract lyricism informed by myriad traditions. He has sympathetic peers in the trumpeter Jonathan Finlayson, the vibraphonist Chris Dingman, the bassist Drew Gress and the drummer Tyshawn Sorey. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15. (Chinen) JASON LINDNER BIG BAND (Thursday) The pianist Jason Lindner is best known for this vamp-heavy ensemble, which outfits the big-band tradition with contemporary contours. This is a prerelease party for a forthcoming album, which will be available at the show. (Through next Friday.) At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15. (Chinen) TONY MALABY'S APPARITIONS (Tomorrow) Rhythm and texture are often equal priorities for the tenor saxophonist Tony Malaby, but that would seem especially true in this band, which includes two venturesome drummers -- Tom Rainey and John Hollenbeck -- along with a bassist, Drew Gress. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) * BRANFORD MARSALIS / JOSHUA REDMAN (Wednesday) Among other things, these superb tenor and soprano saxophonists share a nuanced perspective on jazz tradition and innovation. Mr. Marsalis has been the more consistent bandleader over the years, but Mr. Redman has a new album, ''Back East'' (Nonesuch), that reconfirms his graceful command. Part of the JVC Jazz Festival. At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100, the-townhall-nyc.org; $50 and $65. (Chinen) JIMMY McPARTLAND CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION (Tuesday) The pianist Marian McPartland presides over this salute to her husband -- the fine cornetist Jimmy McPartland (1907-1991) -- and handpicks a group that includes the bassist Bill Crow, the guitarist Howard Alden and the drummer Eddie Locke. Part of the JVC Jazz Festival. At 8 p.m., Kaye Playhouse, 68th Street between Park and Lexington Avenues, (212) 772-4448, kayeplayhouse.hunter.cuny.edu; $45. (Chinen) MOUTIN REUNION QUARTET (Thursday) Francois and Louis Moutin, a bassist and drummer, respectively, lead this trans-Atlantic post-bop band; the group's other half consists of the saxophonist Rick Margitza and the pianist Pierre de Bethmann. At 8 and 10 p.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626, sweetrhythmny.com; cover, $15, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) NIGHT OF THE RAVISHED LIMBS (Wednesday) This installment of the smartly programmed Park Slope series features a pair of bands led by broadminded guitarists: the Billy Newman Quintet, with a frontline of Ben Holmes on trumpet and Michael Attias on alto saxophone; and the Scott DuBois Quartet, with Andrew D'Angelo on alto saxophone and bass clarinet. At 8 and 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) LUIS PERDOMO TRIO (Tomorrow) Luis Perdomo attacks the piano with focused urgency, and his compositions take unforced yet unexpected turns. As on his strong recent album ''Awareness'' (RKM), he plays here with the bassist Hans Glawischnig and the drummer Eric McPherson. At midnight, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $10, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) PLANET JAZZ (Tonight and tomorrow night) On ''In Orbit'' (Sharp Nine), an album released last year, this sextet pursues a hard-bop agenda with gusto, benefiting greatly from the prowess of the tenor saxophonist Grant Stewart, the trumpeter Joe Magnarelli and the guitarist Peter Bernstein, who all appear here. At 9 and 10:30, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20. (Chinen) PRESERVATION HALL JAZZ BAND (Tuesday) The granddaddy of traditional New Orleans revival ensembles, led by the trumpeter John Brunious, performs a concert in Midtown Manhattan with a handful of special guests, including the pianist Alan Toussaint, the violinist Jenny Scheinman and the alto saxophonist Steve Wilson. Part of the JVC Jazz Festival. At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, (212) 307-4100, the-townhall-nyc.org; $40 and $55. (Chinen) RAINEY+BERNE+HEBERT (Wednesday) The drummer Tom Rainey assumes a leadership role in this free-improvising group, which includes a regular collaborator, the alto saxophonist Tim Berne, and a sympathetic partner, the bassist John Hebert. Their ranks expand here to include Ingrid Laubrock, a German-born, British-based tenor and soprano saxophonist who performs infrequently in the States. At 9 and 10 p.m., Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; $5 suggested donation. (Chinen) RUFUS REID QUINTET (Monday) A stalwart bassist and bandleader, Rufus Reid presents the same group heard on his new release, ''Live at the Kennedy Center'' (Motema), with Rich Perry on tenor saxophone, Freddie Hendrix on trumpet, Sumi Tonooka on piano and Tim Horner on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen) PETE ROBBINS AND CENTRIC (Tonight) The alto saxophonist Pete Robbins pursues an intimate jazz-rock hybrid with some fellow left-of-centrists: Sam Sadigursky on reeds, Eliot Cardinaux on keyboards, Thomas Morgan on bass and Tyshawn Sorey on drums. At 9 and 10:30, Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) TRAVIS SULLIVAN'S BJORKESTRA / URI CAINE'S BEDROCK (Tonight) The saxophonist and pianist Travis Sullivan leads the Bjorkestra, a big band with a muse, a method and a roster of good young players. Bedrock consists of the keyboardist Uri Caine, the bassist Tim Lefebvre and the drummer Zach Danziger, three musicians with a fondness for wicked grooves. At 8, Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $20. (Chinen) TILT BRASS BAND (Tonight and tomorrow night) Chris McIntyre, a trombonist who has programmed this month at the Stone, is a member of this 10-piece brass ensemble, which will perform new commissions by colleagues like the cornetist Taylor Ho Bynum and the saxophonist Charles Waters. At 8 and 10, the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) * MCCOY TYNER TRIO (Tuesday through Thursday) The rumble and sweep of McCoy Tyner's piano playing have quieted a bit over the years, but he can still be a compelling stylist, especially in this trio, with Charnett Moffett on bass and Eric Kamau Gravatt on drums. Special guests for this engagement include the harmonica virtuoso Toots Thielemans (Tuesday and Wednesday) and the tenor saxophonist Joe Lovano (Thursday). (Through June 24.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $55 at tables, $30 at the bar, with a $5 minimum.(Chinen) * WE REMEMBER RUBY: A MUSICAL SALUTE TO RUBY BRAFF (Wednesday) Irascible and irreplaceable, the cornetist Ruby Braff left a void in traditional jazz when he died in 2003. He would have been 80 this year, one reason for this gathering of kindred spirits, like the cornetist Warren Vache, the pianist Dick Hyman, the guitarist Bucky Pizzarelli and the saxophonists Scott Hamilton and Harry Allen. Part of the JVC Jazz Festival. At 8 p.m., Kaye Playhouse, 68th Street between Park and Lexington Avenues, (212) 772-4448, kayeplayhouse.hunter.cuny.edu; $45. (Chinen) CASSANDRA WILSON / OLU DARA (Tonight) A jazz singer by training and temperament, Ms. Wilson takes obvious pleasure in a boundless repertory, a tendency borne out vividly on her most recent album, ''Thunderbird'' (Blue Note). Mr. Dara, who has appeared on some of Ms. Wilson's recordings, is a trumpeter, guitarist and singer with a similar connection to Mississippi twang. At 7, Central Park SummerStage, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 360-2777, summerstage.org; free. (Chinen) * VISION FESTIVAL XII (Tuesday through Thursday) Avant-garde jazz culture has no better colloquy in this country than the Vision Festival, which offers a wealth of material in its first few days, including the premiere of a large-scale work by the bassist William Parker (Tuesday); a set by the Sound Vision Orchestra, led by the trumpeter and composer Bill Dixon, who will also receive a lifetime recognition award (Wednesday); and a reading by the poet Jayne Cortez, with musicians associated with her ex-husband, Ornette Coleman (Thursday). At 7 p.m., Angel Orensanz Foundation, 172 Norfolk Street, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 696-6681, visionfestival.org; $30 in advance; $35 on the day of show; $150 for a six-night pass. (Chinen) YELLOWJACKETS (Wednesday and Thursday) After 25 years, this pace car of light fusion has not slowed a bit, thanks to the stewardship of the founding members Russell Ferrante (keyboards) and Jimmy Haslip (bass), and the contributions of Bob Mintzer, an articulate saxophonist, and Marcus Baylor, a whip-smart drummer. (Through June 24.) At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $35, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) Classical Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music. 
 Opera 'LA BOHEME' (Tonight and Wednesday) A loaf of bread, a jug of wine and an evening of opera: summer's annual ritual returns this week in the form of the Met in the Parks. ''Boheme'' may lose some of its oomph without the company's perennially popular sets, but this year's Parks cast includes some fine singers, including Hei-Kyung Hong (as Mimi on Wednesday) and Mary Dunleavy and Elizabeth Caballero (alternating as Musetta). Jose Luis Duval and Roberto Aronica are playing Rodolfo; John Hancock and the veteran Dwayne Croft are Marcello. So, yes, come for the voices, even through the mikes. Gareth Morrell conducts. Tonight at 8, Pelham Bay Park, the Bronx; Wednesday at 8 p.m., Cunningham Park, Queens, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; free. (Anne Midgette) 'MARGARET GARNER' (Tuesday) Members of the New York City Opera visit the Apollo Theater's Salon Series for an evening of excerpts from the recent Richard Danielpour/Toni Morrison opera based on Margaret Garner, a famous figure from black history. At 7:30 p.m., Apollo Theater, 253 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 531-5305, apollotheater.org; $15. (Bernard Holland) * 'PSYCHE' (Tonight through Sunday) The artistic directors of the Boston Early Music Festival, Paul O'Dette and Stephen Stubbs, call this 1671 opera by Lully ''the elephant in the room'': a hugely influential work in its day without a single definitive extant score. They have, accordingly, worked out a performing edition from 35 different sources and chosen to mount the piece, with what purports to be authentic Baroque stage machinery, as the centerpiece of their acclaimed biennial festival. Among the many other events in the festival this weekend are performances by Sequentia and the Ensemble Clement Janequin (tonight), and a 17th-century-based concert by the Royal Wind Music (Sunday). ''Psyche'' will be repeated in Great Barrington, Mass., next weekend. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7, Sunday at 3:30 p.m., Cutler Majestic Theater, Emerson College, 219 Tremont Street, Boston, (617) 661-1812, bemf.org; $30 to $250. (Midgette) Classical Music AMERICAN COMPOSERS ALLIANCE (Wednesday and Thursday) The American Composers Alliance's Festival of American Music kicks off with the premiere of John Eaton's ''Pumped Fiction,'' with a libretto by Estela Eaton, his daughter. Beth Greenberg directs the Pocket Opera Players in the work, a fable about the world's leading patenter-distributor of penis pumps. On Thursday a number of New York premieres will be presented, including Christopher Adler's ''Signals Intelligence'' for solo marimba, Elizabeth Bell's ''Soliloquy'' for solo cello and Lewis Nielson's ''Iskra'' for flute, cello and percussion. At 8 p.m., Thalia at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $25 on Wednesday; $15 on Thursday. (Vivien Schweitzer) BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday, and Wednesday) This floating concert hall on the Brooklyn side of the East River is open all year, but it is at its best in the spring and summer, when the sun sets late, and it's warm enough to have an intermission stroll on the deck. The program this week is varied as always: tonight Hartmut Rohde, a violist, and Mykola Suk, a pianist, play works by C. P. E. Bach, Liszt, Toch, Bloch and Hindemith. In a lunchtime piano recital tomorrow, and again in the evening, Jenny Lin plays Shostakovich preludes and fugues and works by Chopin. Sunday is devoted to Beethoven chamber works, including the Horn Sonata (Op. 17), a cello and piano arrangement of the Opus 3 Piano Trio, and the Septet (Op. 20). And on Wednesday Modiano and Ralsk, a multimedia duo made up of Yael Archer (Modiano) on flute and electronics, and Kurt Ralsk, a video artist, will offer a concert of its recent works. Tonight, tomorrow and Wednesday nights at 8, tomorrow at 1 p.m. and Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65+ tonight and Thursday. (Allan Kozinn) CONNECTICUT EARLY MUSIC FESTIVAL (Tonight through Sunday) New London's annual three-weekend feast of early music, slightly spare yet charming in the best New England tradition, continues with celebrations of three composers. Tonight is ''Mr. Purcell at Home,'' with songs and trio sonatas by that English master; tomorrow it's ''Bach at Zimmermann's Coffee House,'' offering light fare like the ''Coffee'' Cantata; and on Sunday four Haydn symphonies take the stage in the original orchestration the composer conducted at Esterhaza. Tonight at 8, Mystic Art Center, Mystic; tomorrow at 6 p.m., the Velvet Mill, Stonington; Sunday at 6 p.m., Evans Hall, Connecticut College, New London, (860) 444-2419, ctearlymusic.org; $20 to $26. (Midgette) * EMERSON STRING QUARTET (Sunday) In its Perspectives series at Carnegie Hall, this superb ensemble has been exploring all the Beethoven string quartets, with works by his predecessors and successors to provide a broad historical and musical context. In this final installment the group plays Beethoven's Quartets in F (Op. 135) and C sharp minor (Op. 131). Between them, the musicians give the premiere of a work composed for the series by Kaija Saariaho, ''Terra Memoria.'' A preconcert recital by Jessica Lee, violinist, includes Ms. Saariaho's Nocturne for Solo Violin and Beethoven's Sonata for Violin and Piano in G (Op. 96), with Ieva Jokubaviciute. At 8 p.m. (preconcert recital at 6:45), (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $32 to $79. (Kozinn) KATYA GRINEVA (Tomorrow) Ms. Grineva's piano recital at Carnegie Hall brings along a gallery of familiar musical faces: Rachmaninoff, Liszt, Chopin, Debussy and Ravel. Also featuring music by Ernest Bloch. At 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $25 to $95. (Holland) JUPITER SYMPHONY CHAMBER PLAYERS (Monday) In the adventurous spirit of its founder, the conductor Jens Nygaard, this chamber ensemble typically juxtaposes familiar works with lesser-known scores. This time the resident players are joined by Xiao-Dong Wang, a violinist, and Inga Kapouler, a pianist, for a program that includes Mozart's Piano Trio No. 4 (K. 542), Czerny's Fantasia Concertante, Kreutzer's Clarinet Quartet in E flat and Dvorak's String Quintet (Op. 97). At 7:30 p.m., St. James's Church, Madison Avenue at 71st Street, (212) 799-1259, jupitersymphony.com; $10 to $25. (Kozinn) JOHN KAMITSUKA (Tuesday) Mr. Kamitsuka's traditional program of memorable composers for the piano acknowledges the ''Three Bs'' (Bach, Beethoven and Brahms) and then adds the ''Big S'' (Schubert). At 8 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $35. (Holland) * MAKE MUSIC NEW YORK (Thursday) New York's inaugural Make Music festival, an all-day affair inspired by Fete de la Musique in France (first held in 1982), features hundreds of free musical events around the city. The lively classical lineup ranges from the New York Consort of Viols playing Renaissance music on the Upper West Side to a performance of Terry Riley's ''In C'' in the middle of Cornelia Street in Greenwich Village. Other events include Greg Zuber, the Metropolitan Opera principal percussionist, playing contemporary music in the financial district; Bargemusic musicians playing Vivaldi in Brooklyn Borough Hall; and members of the New York Philharmonic playing chamber works by Mozart and Steven Gerber at Lincoln Center Plaza. Schedule and information: makemusicny.org. (Schweitzer) MUSIC MOUNTAIN (Sunday) A benefit concert with Peter Serkin opens the 78th year of this Connecticut chamber music festival, which has a special focus on string quartets. The Bard Festival String Quartet will offer the Shostakovich 11th Quartet and Beethoven's Opus 132 in A minor before being joined by Mr. Serkin for the Brahms Piano Quintet. At 3 p.m., Gordon Hall at Music Mountain, Falls Village, Conn., (860) 824-7126, musicmountain.org; $25 to $200. (Midgette) NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday) Riccardo Muti's conducting is a balance of elegance and power, and the Philharmonic's response to it has been satisfying. To conclude his two-week visit with the orchestra, he leads Rossini's ''Semiramide'' Overture, Schubert's Symphony No. 3 and Dvorak's Symphony No. 5. Then Lorin Maazel is back with a program that includes a group of Strauss songs, to be sung by Deborah Voigt, and Mahler's sprawling Symphony No. 7. Tonight at 8, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722, njpac.org; $28 to $94. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $56 to $96 tickets remaining tomorrow, $28 to $94 for Wednesday and Thursday. (Kozinn) NORFOLK CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL (Tomorrow) The Norfolk Chamber Music Festival kicks off its summer series with an unusual lineup of guitar, played by Benjamin Verdery; theremin and shakuhachi, played by Elizabeth Brown; and percussion, played by John Marshall. The program includes Ravi Shankar's ''Aube Enchantee'' (''The Enchanted Dawn''); Michio Miyagi's ''Haru No Umi'' (''A Sea in Springtime''); Ingram Marshall's ''Soepa'' ; and works by Mr. Verdery and Ms. Brown. At 8 p.m., Ellen Battell Stoeckel Estate, Routes 44 and 272, Norfolk, Conn., (860) 542-3000, yale.edu/norfolk; $10. (Schweitzer) * St. Luke'S CHAMBER ENSEMBLE (Tomorrow and Sunday) ''Unleashed'' is the final program in the St. Luke's chamber festival celebrating female composers. The women here have dealt with the stigma of being female -- evidently still something of a handicap in a field that remains overwhelmingly male -- by blazing their own trails: their own kinds of music, their own kinds of career. Joan La Barbara, Julia Wolfe, Pamela Z and Eve Beglarian share the afternoon with a young composer named Erin Watson, whose ''Lullaby for Cy Twombly,'' commissioned for the festival, will have its first performance. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., Chelsea Art Museum, 556 West 22nd Street; Sunday at 3 p.m., Dia:Beacon, Beacon, N.Y., (212) 594-6100, oslmusic.org; $20. (Midgette) Dance Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance. * AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (Tonight, tomorrow and Monday through Thursday) It's all Kenneth MacMillan this weekend and next week. ''Manon'' will be danced by Diana Vishneva, Marcelo Gomes, Gennadi Saveliev and Michele Wiles (tonight); by Julie Kent, Jose Manuel Carreno, Jesus Pastor and Carmen Corella (tomorrow afternoon); and by Xiomara Reyes, Angel Corella, Ethan Stiefel and Stella Abrera (tomorrow night). Then comes ''Romeo and Juliet,'' with the tempestuous lovers danced by Ms. Vishnevar and Angel Corella (Monday); Paloma Herrera and Mr. Gomes (Tuesday); Gillian Murphy and David Hallberg (Wednesday afternoon); Irina Dvorovenko and Maxim Beloserkovsky (Wednesday night), and Ms. Reyes and Mr. Carreno (Thursday). Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Monday, Tuesday and Thursday at 8 p.m.; Wednesday at 2 and 8 p.m. Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, abt.org; $24 to $110. (Jennifer Dunning) IAN SPENCER BELL (Thursday) Mr. Bell will perform his new solo, ''Floating Hold,'' set to the songs of Glenn Miller, in the small formal drawing room of the Morris-Jumel Mansion, a favorite place. Through next Friday. At 7:30 p.m., Morris-Jumel Mansion Museum, 65 Jumel Terrace, at 160th Street, Washington Heights, (212) 923-8008; $10. (Dunning) ALEXANDRA BELLER (Thursday) In Ms. Beller's new ''us,'' directed by Kristin Marting, a woman on the verge of breaking up with her lover embarks on a journey of reconciliation, substituting her country for her life partner. (Through June 24.) At 8:30 p.m., Here Arts Center, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 352-3101, here.org; $50; $20. (Dunning) CEDAR LAKE CONTEMPORARY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday and Wednesday) The company will perform ''Decadance,'' a suite of excerpts from dances created since 1985 by Ohad Naharin, director of Dance Company, in Tel Aviv. (Through July 1.) Tonight, tomorrow, Tuesday and Wednesday nights at 8; Sunday at 7 p.m., Cedar Lake Theater, 547 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 868-4444, cedarlakedance.com; $40; $30 for students and 65+. (Dunning) CHIMAERA PHYSICAL THEATER (Thursday) Birds, fire and logarithms are among the themes woven together in ''Reading by Lightning,'' a collaboration between Mollye Maxner, a choreographer, and Kathy Couch, a designer. (Through June 24.) At 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479, joyce.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. 
 (Jack Anderson) COVENANT DANCE THEATER (Tonight and tomorrow) Marla Hirokawa, the company director, celebrates two decades of choreographing and teaching with a program of repertory pieces danced by alumni and performers who have appeared with Jennifer Muller, Philadanco and the Ballet Theater of New Mexico. Tonight at 7:30, tomorrow at 2 p.m., Kingsborough Community College Performing Arts Center, 2001 Oriental Boulevard, Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn, (718) 891-6199, covenantdance.com; $20; $17 for 65+ and children 12 and under. (Dunning) DANCE THEATER OF HARLEM (Tomorrow and Sunday) A recent lecture-performance at the Guggenheim Museum revealed that the advanced students at this school will be ready to go once the company resumes performing after a long hiatus because of financial problems. They will perform here, along with children -- adorable, of course -- from all levels of training. At 5 p.m., Harlem Stage at Aaron Davis Hall, West 135th Street and Convent Avenue, (212) 650-7100, harlemstage.org; $25. (Dunning) DANCEMOPOLITAN AT JOE'S PUB (Tonight) ''Villains and Heroes, the 100 most influential people who (n)ever lived,'' is a suite of dances inspired by the favorite villains and heroes of the choreographers who are performing. The dancers are former members of Stephen Petronio's company, and Mr. Petronio himself is the evening's host. At 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $20. (Dunning) FULL FORCE DANCE THEATER (Tonight, tomorrow and Sunday) Works by Katie Stevinson-Nollet and Lisa Race include a collaboration with Robert Black, a bass player who will move like a Pied Piper among the dancers; a portrait of an Alzheimer's patient; a comically sinister mystery story; a duet inspired by Salvador Dali; and a male trio inspired by photographs of fallen soldiers. At 8, Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479, joyce.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Anderson) * SAVION GLOVER (Tuesday through Thursday) A tap virtuoso turns his two tapping feet into a percussion ensemble. (Through July 14.) Mondays and Tuesdays at 7:30 p.m., Wednesdays at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m., Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $44 (Anderson) * SHANNON HUMMEL/CORA DANCE (Tonight and tomorrow night) Ms. Hummel's dances are like short stories, economical and eloquent. Now, at the start of her second decade as a choreographer, she has become a mother. The program includes repertory dances, a work in progress and a conversation about finding the balance between being an artist and being a parent. At 8, Brooklyn Arts Exchange, 421 Fifth Avenue, at Eighth Street, Park Slope, (718) 832-0018, bax.org; $8 to $15. (Dunning) * 'INVENTION: MERCE CUNNINGHAM & COLLABORATORS' (Tuesday through Thursday) This free exhibition focuses on Mr. Cunningham's collaborations with artists including John Cage, Jasper Johns and Nam June Paik. Manuscripts, computer-generated choreography, costumes, set pieces and posters are among the materials on view, culled from the Cunningham archives, the John Cage Trust and the holdings of the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center. A dance created by Mr. Cunningham for the exhibition will be performed during the show's run in the library's lobby, and there will also be performances by Nurit Tilles of music by Cage for prepared piano. (Through Oct. 13.) Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays from noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays from noon to 8 p.m., New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-1630, nypl.org. (Dunning) JACOB'S PILLOW DANCE FESTIVAL (Tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday) The festival opens its 75th-anniversary season tomorrow night with a sold-out gala featuring performers from two major companies, Nina Ananiashvili's State Ballet of Georgia and the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, that are appearing at the festival this summer. The season proper opens with the Georgians in the third act of Petipa's ''Don Quixote,'' George Balanchine's ''Mozartiana'' and Trey McIntyre's ''Second Before the Ground.'' Tomorrow at 6:30 p.m.; Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m., Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, George Carter Road, Becket, Mass., (413) 243-0745, jacobspillow.org; $58. (Dunning) KATHAK ENSEMBLE (Tonight and tomorrow night) Janaki Patrik and her company will present a Kathak dance travelogue that takes the audience from the form's origins in the Indian countryside to the royal courts of a Bollywood movie set. At 8, Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning) VALENTINA KOZLOVA'S DANCE CONSERVATORY COMPANY (Tonight) This program includes a new piece by Margo Sappington and excerpts from ''The Pharaoh's Daughter'' and ''Raymonda.'' Many of the performers are Ms. Kozlova's students, though the dancers also include Reyneris Reyes of the Boston Ballet. But to watch these young dancers perform is to see solid, inspired training and the handing down of tradition in three dimensions. At 8, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $30; $20 for 65+ and children under 12. (Dunning) MIRO MAGLOIRE'S NEW CHAMBER BALLET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Magloire specializes in presenting dances, here created by himself and a guest choreographer, Constantine Baecher, that are intimately connected to their musical scores, which are performed live. At 8, City Center Studio 4, fourth floor, 130 West 56th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444; $20. (Dunning) * NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL BALLET COMPETITION (Wednesday and Thursday) Young dancers, ages 17 to 24, from around the world, compete for gold, silver and bronze medals. Competition rounds continue through June 23 at 8 p.m.; the gala performance is June 24 at 7 p.m., Rose Theater, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 721-6500, nyibc.org. Competition rounds: $27.50; $17.50 for students and 65+; $70 for the gala. (Anderson) NOCHE FLAMENCA (Tonight through Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday) It's back, with a new piece called ''Aldaba'' and the company star, Soledad Barrio, she of unfailing fire. (Through July 29.) Tonight and Wednesday and Thursday nights at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 5 p.m., Theater 80, 80 St. Mark's Place, at First Avenue, East Village, (212) 352-3101, theatremania.com; $55. (Dunning) NOTES IN MOTION (Tonight through Sunday night) ''Interiors,'' a new piece by the company's director, Amanda Selwyn, takes the audience on a journey through five rooms and spaces, in order to question concepts of public and private realms. At 8:30, Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194, danspaceproject.org; $25; $20 for students. (Dunning) JODy OBERFELDER (Tonight through Sunday) Ms. Oberfelder, known for her acrobatic, high-energy dance mixed with glints of humor, will present her new ''Heavy Light,'' inspired by Horace Walpole's notion that life is a comedy for thinkers and a tragedy for those who feel, and ''The Title Comes Last,'' in which performers travel from a workaday world into ''a land of vibrancy.'' Take us with you. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7, Sunday at 3 p.m., the Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, www.theflea.org; $20; $12 for students and 65+. (Dunning) * OUT LIKE THAT! FESTIVAL (Thursday) The festival, which celebrates gay pride in the Bronx, opens with ''She's Got Moves,'' a program of dance by ''fierce, feisty, ferocious'' female choreographers who include Alethea Adsitt, Sharon Estacio and Faye Driscoll. (Through June 23.) At 8 p.m., the Bronx Academy of Art & Dance, 841 Barretto Street, South Bronx, (718) 842-5223, bronxacademyofartsanddance.org; $15. (Dunning) SENS/NOEMIE LaFRANCE (Tonight and tomorrow) Ms. LaFrance, known for visually dramatic site-specific dance, will present performances of a work in progress called ''Rapture,'' in which dancers travel across stainless-steel roofs and walls in a response to the architectural design of Frank Gehry's Fisher Center. At 8 p.m., Fisher Center for the Performing Arts at Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7900, fishercenter.bard.edu; free. (Dunning) STREB S.L.A.M. (Tonight through Sunday) High-flying, wall-crashing thrills and chills, and popcorn besides. Tonight at 7; tomorrow at 3 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m., Streb Laboratory for Action Mechanics, 51 North First Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (212) 352-3101, strebusa.org; $20; $10 for children. (Dunning) * 33rd ANNUAL DANCE CRITICS' ASSOCiATION CONFERENCE (Tomorrow and Sunday) This year's topics -- Katherine Dunham and Lincoln Kirstein -- are of general interest, and the conference sessions, which include screenings of rare films and a lecture-demonstration of the Dunham technique, are open to the public. David Vaughan will be honored for his critical writing and service as an archivist to the Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, with the award presented by Mr. Cunningham. Participants include Martin Duberman, Kirstein's recent biographer, and Robert Gottlieb, the editor and dance writer. Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, TriBeCa, dancecritics.org. (Dunning) VISION FESTIVAL XII (Tuesday) The festival, whose goal is to promote collaborations between choreographers, musicians and visual artists, begins on Tuesday with a program featuring work by Marlies Yearby and Cooper-Moore. (Through June 24.) At 9:30 p.m., Angel Orensanz Foundation, 172 Norfolk Street, at Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (800) 838-3006, brownpapertickets.com; $35; $30 in advance. (Dunning) WORKS AND PROCESS AT THE GUGGENHEIM: PILOBOLUS AND INBAL PINTO (Monday) Pilobolus will perform repertory and excerpts from a new piece choreographed collaboratively by Pilobolus and Ms. Pinto, with Avshalom Pollak, who, like Ms. Pinto, is an Israeli choreographer. They will also discuss the collaborative process. At 7:30 p.m., Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3587; $24; $15 for students. (Dunning) Art Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums * AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE GREAT COVER-UP: AMERICAN RUGS ON BEDS, TABLES AND FLOORS,' through Sept. 9. The more than 60 rugs in this extraordinary show count among the best pictorial art of 19th- and early-20th-century America, which means that quite a few of the women who made them qualify as great, if unidentified, artists. Densely textured, gloriously colored, boldly scaled and exuberantly frontal, they provide something of a history of the American handmade rug, from mostly yarn-sewn to the popular hooking technique. Their intuitive intelligence, where space and composition are concerned, proves once more that modern form is not a modern invention and flattens the always provisional distinction between art and craft. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith) THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'IMPRESSIONIST AND EARLY MODERN PAINTINGS:THE CLARK BROTHERS COLLECT,' through Aug. 19. The Met examines the lives and collecting habits of two feuding brothers, heirs to the Singer sewing machine fortune, who were among the leading 20th-century art patrons. Sterling Clark was founder of the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute in Williamstown, Mass. His younger brother Stephen was a trustee of both the Met and the Museum of Modern Art (and established the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y.) The brothers shared a love of Renoir, Degas and Americans like Winslow Homer, but Sterling ''drew the line'' at Cezanne and considered Matisse and Picasso ''bad painters and fakers.'' Tracking their taste and how they dispersed their collections is interesting -- and perhaps instructive for contemporary collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener) MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'Richard Serra Sculpture: 40 Years,' through Sept. 10. This retrospective is a landmark by a titan of sculpture. At 67, Mr. Serra is still nudging the language of abstraction, constructing ever more awesome mazes of looming Cor-Ten steel. His ''Torqued Ellipses'' and ''Torqued Toruses'' and other recent works like ''Band'' and ''Sequence'' have their origins in pieces he did 40 years ago in rubber and lead, as this retrospective handsomely affirms, but these are nonetheless unprecedented variations on the theme of dumbfounding spirals and loops. These shapes and experiences are new. That's about the best, and the rarest, compliment you can give to any artist. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Michael Kimmelman) MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'NEW YORK RISES: PHOTOGRAPHS BY EUGENE DE SALIGNAC,' through Sept. 4. This exhibition makes a case for adding Eugene de Salignac, the official photographer for the New York City Department of Bridges, Plant and Structures from 1903 to 1934, to the canon of American photographers whose images are forever linked with the city. He captured the Williamsburg, Manhattan and Queensboro Bridges just as construction was completed and the subways tracks were being laid. In some of his moving, eye-catching images, he exhibits his appreciation for New York's work force. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1673, mcny.org. (Bridget L. Goodbody) Galleries: Uptown 'CONCEPTUAL PHOTOGRAPHY: 1964-1989' There are no surprising names in this intriguing show of one or two works by nearly 30 artists from several generations and countries. But the works themselves are often unusual, especially on the early end, as is the richness with which various subjects and techniques ricochet among them. Zwirner & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212) 517-8677, zwirnerandwirth.com, through June 23. (Smith) Galleries: Chelsea Art & Language, Stephanie Brooks, Helen Mirra, Ian Wilson In a four-artist show that is, to say the least, spare, the Minimal-Conceptual veterans Art & Language and Ian Wilson join forces with the relative newcomers Stephanie Brooks and Helen Mirra. For the most part, Art & Language sets the terms, first with ''Index 003'' (1973), a kind of teaser about the impossibility of saying nothing, which reads in this context as a defense of the work on view. In addition, everyone else here takes lots of language into their art. Peter Blum Chelsea, 529 West 29th Street, (212) 244-6055, peterblumgallery.com, through June 23. (Smith) Kathe Burkhart: 'The Liz Taylor Series: Selections from 1983-2007' The term ''post-feminism'' gains significance when looking at Kathe Burkhart's ''Liz Taylor Series'' paintings. Unlike 1970s feminist artists, Ms. Burkhart doesn't just celebrate famous women; she inhabits one. Ms. Taylor serves as a doppelganger for the artist in paintings that combine movie stills and tabloid images with collaged elements and text. Only a few of the 125 paintings in the series appear here, but they demonstrate how feminism can be retooled for every generation. Alexander Gray Associates, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 399-2636, alexandergray.com, through June 23. (Schwendener) 'In Defense of Ardor' For most of the 2000s, art pundits have campaigned to replace kvetchy postmodernism with a New Sincerity. By why an either/or proposition? Can't irony be ardent? Can't ardor be critically self-aware? Can't passion and reason coexist? In this group show they often do. Bellwether, 134 10th Avenue, between 18th and 19th Streets, (212) 929-5959, bellwethergallery.com, through June 30. (Holland Cotter) Galleries: Other * MARTIN KIPPENBERGER: 'PREIS bilder' Seven canvases from two series of paintings rarely exhibited in this country play on the double German meaning of preis (price and prize), some variation of which appears on each surface. They show this famous bad-boy sculptor conveying his usual sarcasm in surprisingly beautiful terms that couldn't get much flatter. Hard-edged and brushy techniques contrast the main tactics of formalist painting while converting the Modernist grid into designs redolent of drapery and checked tablecloths. A preponderance of hot pink argues for the pleasure principle. 1018 Art, 1018 Madison Avenue, near 78th Street, (212) 537-0453, 1018art.net, through July 27. (Smith) * 'The Museum of Crime and the Museum of God' Put together by the writer Luc Sante from material from his own collection, this assemblage -- with holy cards and vintage mug shots; protective amulets and 1930s crime novels; photographs of murder scenes and of river baptisms -- is essentially about his life and makes a transfixing show. Apexart, 291 Church Street, between Walker and White Streets, TriBeCa, apexart.org, through June 23. (Cotter) 'The Price of Everything: Perspectives on the Art Market' Marcel Duchamp, who tried to redefine art as an active tool for thinking rather than a passive object of looking, hovers like a damaged angel over this think-piece of a group show organized by the 2006-7 Helena Rubenstein Curatorial Fellows of the Whitney Museum of American Art Independent Study Program. The Art Gallery, City University of New York Graduate Center, 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street, gc.cuny.edu, through June 24. (Cotter) Christian Tomaszewski: 'On Chapels, Caves and Erotic Misery' The Polish-born, New York-based artist Christian Tomaszewski breaks down film's ''fourth wall'' by inviting viewers to enter his version of David Lynch's ''Blue Velvet.'' Installed in the SculptureCenter are re-creations of locations and dollhouse-size models of objects from the movie, as well as other tableaus. Problems arise when he tries to merge the ''Blue Velvet'' angle with aspects of Kurt Schwitters's ''Merzbau'' to explore the collision of Postmodern and Modern aesthetics. Mr. Tomaszewski might be over-reaching, but he offers plenty to think about: memory, representation and America as seen through both his eyes and Mr. Lynch's. The SculptureCenter, 44-19 Purves Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 361-1750, sculpture-center.org, through July 29. (Schwendener) Last Chance * 'Beneath the Underdog' This ultra-cool, downtown-comes-uptown affair is one of the better gallery shows of the year. And full credit goes to its artist-curators, Nate Lowman and Adam McEwen. They've turned Gagosian's six-room space into a mini-museum of objects that speak of the base, the gross, the fallen, the ruined, the failed. A second show, ''Mafia (or One Unopened Packet of Cigarettes),'' is tucked inside. Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, between 76th and 77th Streets, gagosian.com; closes tomorrow. (Cotter) 'CROSSCURRENTS: DURER TO PICASSO' A show of prints and drawings that makes imaginative pairings of older works with those of 20th-century artists who are sometimes cued by their contemporaries as well as their ancestors. The evidence is keen in, for example, Hieronymus Bosch's ''Temptation of St. Anthony'' (1561), a fervidly drawn scene of grotesque beings and fantastic doings placed near two later Surrealist renditions: a biomorphic figment by Andre Masson, ''The Genius of the Species'' (1942), and Salvador Dali's etching ''Landscape in the Manner of Arcimboldo'' (1934), a biomorphic-geometric vision. A beguiling show. David Tunick, 19 East 66th Street, (212) 570-0090, tunickart.com; closes today. (Grace Glueck) * LOUISE KRUGER: SCULPTURE, 1950s TO THE PRESENT This 21-work survey of mostly carved wood sculpture supplies another chunk in the history of postwar American art. Influenced by folk art and trained for a year by a shipbuilder, Ms. Kruger developed her art sculpture by cutting woodblocks for prints, as an enormous example here attests. Her life-size figures, portrait busts and political asides are in step with other artists of her generation, including Bill King and Marisol. But her works have their own formal quirks, telling abbreviations, lustrous finishes and quiet, watchful force. Lori Bookstein Fine Art, 37 West 57th Street, (212) 750-0949, loribooksteinfineart.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith) * JIM LEE: 'ALTAMONT' This young artist takes tips from lots of approved sources -- Robert Ryman, Richard Tuttle and Ellsworth -- but has some ideas of his own about the art and craft of building paintings and the play between the literal and the visual. The smaller works tend to be better because they are more complicated, but on the whole, and as a whole, the show is a beautiful start. Freight & Volume, 542 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 989-8700, volumegallery.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith) CLAUDE MONET (1840-1926): A TRIBUTE TO DANIEL WILDENSTEIN AND KATIA GRANOFF This exhibition of nearly 60 paintings by one of the most beloved painters in the world feels a little like having dinner with a celebrity. It allows you to experience afresh the momentum and innovations of Monet's astounding trajectory, up close and in detail. It should not be missed. Wildenstein & Company, 19 East 64th Street,(212) 879-0500, closes today. (Smith) NICK Z./KAI ALTHOFF: 'WE ARE BETTER FRIENDS FOR IT' The latest variation on the collaborative trashed-gallery convention is a strikingly beautiful, if funky, cavelike environment punctuated by artfully messy tableaus in stark white containers. These suggest crash pads, children's bedrooms and studios, but also function almost like paintings. Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-9300, gladstonegallery.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

GRAPHIC: Photos: POP -- Cyndi Lauper, above, appears with Debbie Harry and Erasure in the True Colors Tour on Monday at Radio City Music Hall. Page 24. (Photo by Richard Drew/Associated Press)
ART -- A 1910 photograph of the Queensboro Bridge, left, is among the works by Eugene de Salignac being featured at the Museum of the City of New York. Page 25. (Photo by Museum of the City of New York/Aperture)
 THEATER -- Frederick Weller and Louisa Krause, below, star in Neil LaBute's latest theatrical work, ''In a Dark Dark House.'' Page 23. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); MUSIC (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); KOREAN WAR (71%); WRITERS (71%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



277 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: Rising Rates Start to Squeeze Consumers and Companies

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The unusually low interest rates of the last three years have been an enormous boon to almost every corner of the American economy. 
 They have provided consumers with dirt-cheap mortgages that fed the real estate boom. They have supplied easy credit to companies and investment firms, propelling stocks and corporate profits to record highs and fueling a buyout binge.
Now that party may be coming to an end. 
 Yields on the 10-year Treasury note -- a benchmark that influences many long-term interest rates, including home mortgages -- jumped sharply on Tuesday and are up significantly in the last month. The fallout is likely to be widespread, and felt most immediately by homeowners and people looking to buy a house. 
 Economists said homeowners trying to refinance their adjustable rate mortgages before they reset to higher levels are already feeling pinched. The national average for the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage jumped to 6.74 percent yesterday. At the beginning of the year, the average was 6.18 percent, according to Freddie Mac, a big buyer of mortgages. 
 Last year, adjustable rate loans accounted for 25 percent of mortgage applications, up from 11 percent in 1998, Freddie Mac said. Demand for adjustable rate loans peaked in 2004 at 33 percent; many of those are at or near the reset point.
 ''It's going to be tough,'' said Adam L. Stein, president of the Washington Association of Mortgage Brokers near Seattle. ''I talk to people every day looking to get the fixed rate. You give them the current rate and they say, 'That doesn't do anything for me.' ''
 Homeowners are not the only ones who will have to swallow higher costs. Corporations, accustomed to financing operations with cheap debt, will see their expenses rise, cutting into profits. In addition, rate increases will crimp the private equity buyout boom, which has been fed in large part by the heavy issuance of corporate debt at low rates.
 ''There has been a half a percentage point rise in rates while inflation has been flat, so the real cost of capital has gone up for consumers and for corporate America,'' said Mickey Levy, chief economist at Bank of America. He said he expects that the increase will put pressure on stocks and damp already weak demand for housing.
 The recent rate move came as something of a surprise to Wall Street. It is the result, traders say, of heavy selling by foreign investors, who may be growing concerned about inflation, and holders of mortgage securities hoping to reduce the risks associated with higher rates. 
 While the Federal Reserve Board sets the nation's interest rate policy, buyers and sellers in the Treasury market drive the rates that affect both consumer and corporate borrowers. Bond yields rise when prices fall. The 10-year Treasury note stood at 5.22 percent at the end of trading yesterday, up from 4.7 percent a month ago. 
 Adding to concern over rising rates, the Labor Department reported yesterday that producer prices rose 0.9 percent in May, more than forecasters had expected. The government will release May's consumer price figures today.
 Stocks have so far shrugged off the jump in interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 13,553.72 yesterday, up 71.37 points; the average is 0.8 percent below its high of June 4. 
 Some bond strategists said the recent rate spike is only the beginning. The sharp increase, they said, is just starting to bring interest rates back to their normal or long-term trend levels. 
 ''Bond yields have been so low for so long,'' said Richard Suttmeier, chief market strategist at RightSide Advisors. ''But yields in the 10-year have moved up almost 100 basis points since the end of February. That, to me, is a big shock and enough for people to take notice.''
 Particularly hard hit will be consumers with weak credit -- known as subprime borrowers -- who are faced with mortgage rates that will soon reset to higher, in some cases double-digit, levels. Some $100 billion in subprime loans are scheduled to reset between now and October. 
 Even before the latest rate increase, borrowers who were refinancing their mortgages were paying higher prices to do so. In the first quarter of 2007, Freddie Mac said, half of the borrowers who paid off their original loans and took out new ones absorbed an average increase in interest rates of three-eighths of a percentage point.
 Betty King, a 42-year-old single mother of two in St. Louis, would like to refinance the adjustable rate mortgage on her three-bedroom townhouse but cannot. Her $1,200 monthly payment would rise too much. Her loan, with a rate of 5.9 percent, is scheduled to reset next year. 
 ''Right now, it doesn't pencil out for me,'' said Ms. King, who works part time at an online travel site so she can spend time with her teen-age daughters. 
 A. W. Pickel III, a mortgage banker who is working with Ms. King, said several clients are in similar predicaments. 
 ''I don't think they are panicked,'' he said. ''But now they are wishing, 'Why didn't I take a fixed rate three years ago when I had the chance and rates were low.' ''
 Higher rates are already contributing to an increase in foreclosures. The share of mortgages entering foreclosure in the first quarter of 2007 rose to 0.58 percent, the Mortgage Bankers Association said yesterday, up from 0.54 percent in the previous quarter.
 RealtyTrac, an online provider of foreclosure data, reported Tuesday that foreclosures in May were up 90 percent from the period a year earlier. Although RealtyTrac's figures may overstate matters somewhat by reflecting loans in each step of the foreclosure process, the total foreclosures of 176,137 in May were sobering.
 For struggling homeowners, the rise in rates could not come at a worse time. ''In prior foreclosure waves, we had a drop in interest rates that allowed workouts to be done at lower interest rate levels,'' said Louis S. Barnes II, a partner at Boulder West Financial Services, a mortgage banking firm in Lafayette, Colo. ''Today rates are substantially higher than when a lot of these loans were created.''
 In Florida, a glut of homes on the market combined with rising insurance premiums and higher interest rates will mean a slower recovery, said Patrice P. Yamato, a mortgage broker in Jacksonville and president of Florida's mortgage broker association. One potential client, she said, decided not to buy a new home because the jump in rates meant a monthly payment of $500 more than what she would have paid a few weeks ago.
 Consumers will not be the only ones encountering higher borrowing costs. Corporations will also have to absorb greater expenses, putting pressure on profits and stock prices. 
 ''The trajectory of corporate profits has flattened out after growing in double digits for several years,'' Mr. Levy said. ''The stock market could handle that when rates were low, but a 50-basis-point rise in real bond yields should have dampening impact on stock valuations.'' 
 The private equity buyout boom that has contributed to the bull market in stocks will also face headwinds. While prevailing rates remained below 5 percent, deals financed by corporate debt issuance worked well. As rates move up, the economics of selling big bond issues to pay for the deals becomes more difficult. 
 Consider Alltel, the nation's fifth-largest cellphone company, which is being taken private in a $27.5 billion deal by the Texas Pacific Group and Goldman Sachs. 
 This week, Alltel said that it would take on about $21.7 billion in debt to pay for the transaction. About $14 billion of that debt will be secured loans, but Alltel must sell $7.7 billion in bonds to get the deal done. 
 Assuming the bonds carry an 8 percent to 9 percent interest rate, the range for comparable telecommunication debt issued recently, Alltel will probably spend almost all the cash that it earns to service the debt, said Ping Zhao, a senior analyst at CreditSights. Ms. Zhao further assumes the company's service revenue will grow 7.3 percent this year. 
 Alltel could prove to be a critical test of investor sentiment, said Kingman Penniman, chief executive of KDP, a bond research firm. ''The first cracks will appear when you can't do the $14 billion or the $8 billion deals,'' he said.
 For now, investors still appear to be receptive, said Andrew Feltus, a high-yield fund manager at Pioneer Investments. ''The market seems to be saying, 'I have got the money, I have got to put it to work.' '' 

GRAPHIC: Graph Graph tracks mortgage rates since 2005. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (66%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



278 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: America Comes Up Short

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Traveling through Europe recently, I've been able to confirm through personal experience what statistical surveys tell us: the perceived stature of Americans is not what it was. Europeans used to look up to us; now, many of them look down on us instead.
 No, I'm not talking metaphorically about our loss of moral authority in the wake of Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib. I'm literally talking about feet and inches. 
To the casual observer, Europeans -- who often seemed short, even to me (I'm 5-foot-7), when I first began traveling a lot in the 1970s -- now often seem tall by American standards. And that casual observation matches what careful researchers have found.
 The data show that Americans, who in the words of a recent paper by the economic historian John Komlos and Benjamin Lauderdale in Social Science Quarterly, were ''tallest in the world between colonial times and the middle of the 20th century,'' have now ''become shorter (and fatter) than Western and Northern Europeans. In fact, the U.S. population is currently at the bottom end of the height distribution in advanced industrial countries.''
 This is not a trivial matter. As the paper says, ''height is indicative of how well the human organism thrives in its socioeconomic environment.'' There's a whole discipline of ''anthropometric history'' that uses evidence on heights to assess changes in social conditions. 
 For example, nothing demonstrates the harsh class distinctions of Britain in the age of Dickens better than the 9-inch height gap between 15-year-old students at Sandhurst, the elite military academy, and their counterparts at the working-class Marine School. The dismal working and living conditions of urban Americans during the Gilded Age were reflected in a 1-1/2 inch decline in the average height of men born in 1890, compared with those born in 1830. Americans born after 1920 were the first industrial generation to regain preindustrial stature.
 So what is America's modern height lag telling us?
 There is normally a strong association between per capita income and a country's average height. By that standard, Americans should be taller than Europeans: U.S. per capita G.D.P. is higher than that of any other major economy. But since the middle of the 20th century, something has caused Americans to grow richer without growing significantly taller.
 It's not the population's changing ethnic mix due to immigration: the stagnation of American heights is clear even if you restrict the comparison to non-Hispanic, native-born whites. 
 And although the Komlos-Lauderdale paper suggests that growing income and social inequality in America might be one culprit, the remarkable thing is that, as the authors themselves point out, even high-status Americans are falling short: ''rich Americans are shorter than rich Western Europeans and poor white Americans are shorter than poor Western Europeans.''
 We seem to be left with two main possible explanations of the height gap. 
 One is that America really has turned into ''Fast Food Nation.'' 
 ''U.S. children,'' write Mr. Komlos and Mr. Lauderdale, ''consume more meals prepared outside the home, more fast food rich in fat, high in energy density and low in essential micronutrients, than do European children.'' Our reliance on fast food, in turn, may reflect lack of family time because we work too much: U.S. G.D.P. per capita is high partly because employed Americans work many more hours than their European counterparts.
 A broader explanation would be that contemporary America is a society that, in a variety of ways, doesn't take very good care of its children. Recently, Unicef issued a report comparing a number of measures of child well-being in 21 rich countries, including health and safety, family and peer relationships and such things as whether children eat fruit and are physically active. The report put the Netherlands at the top; sure enough, the Dutch are now the world's tallest people, almost 3 inches taller, on average, than non-Hispanic American whites. The U.S. ended up in 20th place, below Poland, Portugal and Hungary, but ahead of Britain. 
 Whatever the full explanation for America's stature deficit, our relative shortness, like our low life expectancy, suggests that something is amiss with our way of life. A critical European might say that America is a land of harried parents and neglected children, of expensive health care that misses those who need it most, a society that for all its wealth somehow manages to be nasty, brutish -- and short. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); HISTORY (74%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (63%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) UNITED STATES (99%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



279 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14 Hamas Extends Its Reach; Government Is Dissolved The Palestinian territories seemed headed toward a turbulent political divide. Masked Hamas gunmen took control of the Gaza Strip and the Fatah president dissolved the three-month-old unity government, declaring a state of emergency and plans for elections. A1 Egypt Cracks Down on Dissent Recent arrests in Egypt may have as much to do with efforts to challenge the governing party's monopoly on power as they do with holding a view of Islam that many Muslims consider heretical. They appear part of a zero-tolerance policy toward challenges to the status quo, political analysts said. 
A6 Iraq Tries to Maintain Calm With curfews imposed in Baghdad and several other Iraqi cities and security heightened across the country, the day passed with few episodes of violence despite the destruction a day earlier of the minarets of a holy shrine in Samarra, sacred to Shiites. An attack on the shrine last year set off months of sectarian killings. A8 4 Sentenced for Russian Deaths A Russian military court convicted four officers in their third trial for killings in Chechnya, where they had fired on a van containing six unarmed civilians. Only one of the four officers was in court for sentencing. The others, who disappeared during their trial in April, were convicted in absentia. A14 Gates Firm on Missile Defense Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates made clear that the United States would not alter plans to deploy parts of a missile defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic, despite an unexpected proposal by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to use a radar base in Azerbaijan instead. A6 NATIONAL A16-23 Clintons Liquidate Trust To Avoid Campaign Worries The Clintons voluntarily liquidated their blind trust and are leaving the proceeds for now in cash in an effort to eliminate any chance of ethical problems or political embarrassment from their holdings as Mrs. Clinton runs for the Democratic presidential nomination, their advisers said. A1 Libby to Serve Sentence I. Lewis Libby Jr. was escorted by federal marshals out a side door in a federal courtroom in Washington for processing after a judge issued a final ruling that he would have to begin serving his 30-month jail sentence shortly, even before his appeals are exhausted. A20 Same-Sex Unions Remain Legal Same-sex marriage will continue to be legal in Massachusetts, after proponents won a months-long battle to defeat a proposed constitutional amendment to define marriage as between a man and a woman. A16 Immigration Bill Revived Senate Democratic and Republican leaders announced that they had agreed on a way to revive a comprehensive immigration bill that had been pulled off the Senate floor just seven days ago. A23 EDUCATION Report on Student Lending Gifts and payoffs to universities and their officials by student lenders were far more pervasive than has been disclosed and in some cases were demanded by university officials themselves in exchange for promoting lenders to students, according to a Senate report on the student loan industry. A21 NEW YORK/REGION B1-6 New Jersey Budget Fix Costs More Than It Saves In the past two decades, New Jersey has on at least five occasions granted generous early retirement benefits, and in each case, experts say, the plans cost the state more than they saved, undermining the state's ability to meet its pension obligations without raising taxes, borrowing money or shifting money from other state programs. A1 Pseudonymous Writer Sued Since the writer JT Leroy, child of a truck-stop prostitute, was revealed to be the fictitious alter ego of Laura Albert, an obscure young novelist from Brooklyn Heights, a film production company has sued Ms. Albert for fraud, saying that a contract signed with JT Leroy should be null and void. B1 BUSINESS DAY C1-10 Era of Low Rates Ending Unusually low interest rates have been an enormous boon to almost every corner of the economy, but as rates look poised to rise, the party may be ending. A1 Bancrofts Seek Guarantees The family that controls Dow Jones & Company has rejected a plan prepared by its lawyers, asking them instead to seek stronger guarantees of editorial independence as a condition of selling the company to Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. C3 Business Digest C2 SPORTSFRIDAY D1-7 Spurs Win in Sweep The San Antonio Spurs defeated the Cleveland Cavaliers 83-82 for their fourth N.B.A. title in nine years. D6 OBITUARIES B6-B7 Kurt Waldheim The former United Nations secretary general and president of Austria, whose hidden ties to Nazi organizations and war crimes were exposed late in his career, was 88. B7 EDITORIAL A24-25 Editorials: Palestinians at war; Congress and the caregivers; good news on math; when good weeds go bad. Columns: Paul Krugman and David Brooks. Crossword E20 Public Lives B2 TV Listings E27 Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HAMAS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (79%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); REFERENDUMS (77%); CURFEW (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); MARSHALS (76%); ETHICS (75%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); MILITARY COURTS (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); MARRIAGE LAW (64%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (64%); MARRIAGE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) EGYPT (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); POLAND (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



280 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 2; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Film in Review; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: And Then Came Love

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
 Opens today in Manhattan Directed by Richard Schenkman Not rated; 99 minutes 
 There is an in-joke smothered under the wooden dialogue of ''And Then Came Love,'' an inept romantic comedy that for reasons known only to God drew Vanessa Williams, Eartha Kitt, Ben Vereen and Stephen Spinella into its swamp of cliches. Ms. Kitt's character, Mona, is a scowling termagant as fearsomely strait-laced as Lady Bracknell in ''The Importance of Being Earnest'' -- a play that figures prominently (and ludicrously) in the story. It's a hoot to watch Ms. Kitt, pop music's original vamp, look down her nose and pester her daughter, Julie (Ms. Williams), a single mother and successful magazine reporter, to marry and be respectable. 
Julie's son, Jake (Jeremy Gumbs), is an irritating 6-year-old fathered by a sperm donor. When the boy starts acting up in school, Julie worries that the daddy's genes might not be all they were cracked up to be (he was advertised as Ivy League educated) and hires a private detective to find him; then she tracks him down in New Jersey. The donor, Paul Cooper (Kevin Daniels), turns out to be a hunky but unemployed actor in rebellion against his father, a snobbish corporate lawyer (Mr. Vereen). 
 Although Julie conceals the purpose of her visit, Paul likes her enough to look her up in Manhattan, where he and his son meet cute and bond. You know the rest. But first Julie must divest herself of Ted (Michael Boatman), a successful photojournalist proffering emeralds, who is desperate to marry her. Worse, she must venture from Manhattan to Weehawken, N.J., to see Paul perform in what may be the crummiest production of ''The Importance of Being Earnest'' ever mounted. Julie's best friend, Stuart (Mr. Spinella), a sour drama critic, would disagree. His verdict: ''Very fine work.'' STEPHEN HOLDEN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eartha Kitt, left, and Vanessa Williams in ''And Then Came Love.'' (Photo by Sky Island Films) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); SINGLE PARENTS (69%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (68%); POP & ROCK (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



281 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Chinese in Talks to Send Pickups to Mexico

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 14 

 BODY:
A small Chinese automaker and its New Jersey partner are negotiating with Mexican officials to import Chinese-made pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, the first step toward establishing a beachhead in North America. 
 As part of the deal, the partners expect to begin building an assembly plant in Tijuana this year that could export pickups and S.U.V.'s to the United States within a couple of years, said Marc N. Scheinman, a consultant to Chamco Auto of Parsippany, N.J.
A Chinese delegation met Thursday with the governor of Baja California to discuss details and a formal announcement could come next week, said Alejandro Contreras, a spokesman for the state government.
 The Chinese automaker, Hebei Zhongxing Automobile Manufacture Company, expects to begin exports to Mexico by September, said Mr. Scheinman. Zhongxing is a regional producer in Baoding, in the western Chinese province of Hebei, that produces mostly pickups. 
 The company's Web site reports that it has the capacity to produce 110,000 vehicles. But Michael J. Dunne, vice president of international operations for J. D. Power & Associates, wrote recently in The Detroit News that the company was expected to sell just 25,000 vehicles in China this year. 
 Exports to the United States will not start until at least the middle of next year, said Mr. Scheinman, after engineers at the Baoding plant bring the vehicles in line with American safety and emissions standards. 
 The United States auto industry has been speculating about when the first Chinese cars will crack the market. A plan to introduce cars produced by the Chinese automaker Chery Automobile foundered, said David E. Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.
 ''When you look at what's required to compete in terms of emissions and safety standards, it is incredibly difficult,'' Mr. Cole said. ''Talk is pretty cheap and doing it is very difficult.'' 
 American, Japanese and European automakers all export to the United States from plants in Mexico. 
 ''Mexico is a very good manufacturing base,'' Mr. Cole said of Zhongxing's plans to build a plant in the United States. ''It has good skilled workers and relatively low costs. But would the vehicles really be ready for prime time?'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%)

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); HEBEI, CHINA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



282 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Freddie Mac Reports Another Quarterly Loss

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance company, reported an unexpected first-quarter loss yesterday as rising interest rates hurt the value of hedges it holds to protect profits on its mortgage portfolio. 
 The $211 million net loss, its third consecutive quarterly decline, is in contrast to net income of $2 billion in the first quarter of 2006.
The first-quarter loss came mainly because the company was forced to lower the value of derivatives it holds to insure against a sharp rise or fall in interest rates. Big interest rate moves can hurt the value of the huge amount of mortgages Freddie Mac owns.
 ''The volatility in our results will continue,'' Anthony S. Piszel, chief financial officer at Freddie Mac, said in an interview. 
 With this report, Freddie Mac resumed quarterly financial reporting for the first time since a 2003 accounting scandal led to a $5 billion restatement of past earnings.
 The company reported a net loss of 46 cents a share in the first quarter. Excluding unusual items, Freddie Mac was expected to show a profit of $1.09 a share, according to Reuters Estimates.
 ''The first quarter was a very challenging period in the U.S. housing and mortgage markets,'' Richard F. Syron, Freddie Mac's chairman and chief executive, said in a conference call, citing falling housing prices and tightening mortgage credit.
 The company's retained mortgage portfolio grew an annualized 6 percent in the quarter, to about $714 billion.
 Under agreement with its regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Freddie Mac is limiting its portfolio growth while it sorts through its accounting and financial reporting problems.
 Freddie Mac aims to report 2007 results within 60 days of year-end and begin the Security and Exchange Commission registration process by mid-2008.
 The company's share price dipped 62 cents from its adjusted close to trade at $65.24 on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ACCOUNTING (88%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SCANDALS (53%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%)

PERSON: RICHARD F SYRON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



283 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Street Scene; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: India's Economic Boom Transforms Stock Trading Into a National Pastime

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, June 14 

 BODY:
Devender Singh invested in India's volatile stock markets for the first time last year after watching a friend make a mint. The markets promptly fell 30 percent.
 But Mr. Singh, who runs a travel company that leads tours to New York, did not panic. He waited, and a few months later, his investments were up 10 percent. ''You've got to have patience,'' he said. Of course, he also stopped taking all of his friend's advice.
For now, India's markets are on a roll, surpassing even the rosiest forecasts, in part because of a young, wealthy, expanding middle class that is banking on India's aggressive corporate growth. While Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, has offered warnings about China's market, Indian indexes have hit new highs, drawing in foreign investors and Wall Street banks. 
 Many Indian companies are looking to take advantage of the fervor. This week, the country's largest public offering came to the market, the $2.4 billion float of the real estate company DLF. Despite a history strewn with lawsuits, fears of a property bubble and a prospectus that lists 76 risks, DLF was oversubscribed. 
 This month, India's ICICI Bank plans to tap markets in India and the United States for $5 billion. Stock offerings in 2007 will shortly reach $10 billion, in part because of a new issue from Tata Steel, which is raising money to finance the acquisition of a rival, the Corus Group.
 The frothy share prices and large initial offerings are intensifying a debate in India. 
 Market bulls say a fundamental shift is under way as consumers tie their personal wealth more closely to India Inc., paving the way for a more prosperous middle class. 
 ''There has been a sea change in the way people are approaching savings and investments,'' said Sanjay Prakash, head of HSBC's mutual fund business in India. In the last five years, he said, a lot of people became very rich. 
 But bears have begun to talk about a bubble fed by naive optimism and day trading. Indian investors have forgotten, critics say, the heavy losses they suffered after fraud depressed the markets in the early 1990s and the technology bubble burst a few years ago.
 ''It's a bubble to the extent that we lack depth and breadth in the market,'' said Prithvi Haldea, a founder and managing director of New Delhi's Prime Database, which tracks issues and trends in the markets. About three-quarters of the daily volume comes from day trading, he said. ''It's more of a casino,'' he said. If you ask those traders what they know about a stock, ''they can't answer you,'' Mr. Haldea said.
 While the argument intensifies, the recent growth and volatility are undeniable. In 2004, the Bombay Stock Exchange's Sensex Index passed what was seen as the psychologically crucial 4,000 mark. It closed Thursday at 14,203.73, and many traders expect it to hit 15,000 this year. In the 12 months ended June 8, India's market indexes have risen 45.6 percent, HSBC said. In addition, the amount of household savings invested in the equities and mutual funds has risen to about 5 percent from about 1 percent four years ago. 
 In May, the market cap of companies on the Bombay Stock Exchange crossed $1 trillion, putting India second only to China among emerging markets. But in recent weeks, the Sensex Index has yo-yo'ed, dropping as much as 1 percent in a day. 
 Stock watching has become an obsession in India, one that rivals cricket and Bollywood. India has three national business television news channels and another in the planning, four national daily business newspapers and dozens of business magazines. In The Hindustan Times, a daily newspaper that claims 14 million readers, the ''World News'' is tucked behind the business section.
 Believing in India's stock markets means believing in India itself -- and the country's ability to transform its combination of young population, dilapidated infrastructure, chaotic streets and unbridled optimism into a corporate superpower. 
 The market is ''fundamentally going to rise,'' said D. K. Malhotra, a 46-year-old bank manager whose household has about 50 percent of its savings in the markets. Sureha, his wife, a 41-year-old homemaker, does the trading, he said, and makes her own decisions. The Malhotras have put all their investments in blue chips, companies like Reliance Industries and Maruti. 
 ''This is not a fad,'' Mr. Malhotra said. ''We sleep quiet at night, no problem.'' 
 Even Bollywood has joined in. ''Guru,'' a 2007 film about an Indian villager turned business tycoon, neatly sums up the ethos of the time. At a pivotal point, a taxi driver tells the chief executive and hero, ''I got my three daughters married'' thanks to your stock shares. At the close of the film, the hero promises to make India's largest company a global powerhouse, yelling to a stadium of gleeful shareholders, ''Tell the world we are coming.'' 
 In the Delhi headquarters of Angel Broking, across the hall from the Uzbekistan national airline, young male traders pack into computer-lined rooms that are frostily chilled against the heat outdoors. The brokerage house, which has 76 branches, has 220,000 clients and is growing 30 percent a year. 
 ''The risk appetite here is greater than in developed countries,'' said Dinesh Thakkar, founder of the brokerage firm, which is soliciting bids for a foreign partner. ''If you've already got wealth, you don't want to take risks,'' he said, ''but if you're aspiring to be wealthy, you're willing to do so.'' 
 Younger investors, he said, are more willing to take risks than previous generations, and they understand the products. Investors, in general, he said, are financially savvy because many of them have run or have grown up around small businesses. 
 Even mutual funds, which have had a difficult time attracting assets in India, are growing.
 While Mr. Haldea has expressed concern about day traders, he acknowledges that his son is active in those very markets. ''He's earning tons of money and is willing to put it into the capital markets,'' Mr. Haldea said. ''With a growing population, there are new suckers every year.'' 
 Most Indian investors, though, are expressing nothing but optimism. Indian corporations are ''buying companies bigger than themselves, and have confidence,'' said Raman Verma, a trader who started with family money and now trades for several clients. ''In two or three years, the market may be saturated, but not now.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: At $2.4 billion, this week's public offering of stock in the real estate company DLF was the largest in India's history. (Photo by Santosh Verma for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%); LITIGATION (66%); ACQUISITIONS (50%)

COMPANY: ICICI BANK LTD (55%); TATA STEEL LTD (54%); TATA STEEL EUROPE (54%)

TICKER: ICICIBANK (NSE) (55%); IBN (NYSE) (55%); TTST (LSE) (54%); TATASTEEL (NSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS331210 IRON & STEEL PIPE & TUBE MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED STEEL (54%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (54%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (54%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (73%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



284 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Assisting the Good Life; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Resorts Add Jobs, But They Also Tap Into a Reservoir Of Subsidies

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

DATELINE: BANDON, Ore. 

 BODY:
Mike Keiser, who made a fortune selling greeting cards on recycled paper, turned this remote spot on the southern Oregon coast into a golfing mecca that attracts wealthy people in private jets from around the world. 
 To many in this hard-luck town of 3,000, Mr. Keiser is an economic hero. Work became scarce after the timber and fishing industries collapsed a quarter-century ago, and his Bandon Dunes Golf Resort, a few miles north of town, has created 325 full-time jobs, plus hundreds more part-time jobs. Mr. Keiser earns millions of dollars in profits each year.
But beneath this model of enterprise, largely hidden subsidies from airline passengers, state-lottery players, taxpayers and company shareholders support the benefits that the owner, workers and visitors at Bandon Dunes enjoy. 
 Airline passengers and lottery players are paying for a $31 million airport expansion to serve the 5,000 business jets that arrive each year, filled almost entirely with golfers. Many of them are executives of publicly traded companies flying at a small fraction of the real cost of their trips; taxpayers and shareholders bear nearly all of these costs. 
 Much controversy swirls around the subsidies and tax exemptions state and local governments offer expressly to attract businesses to a community. But far less attention has been focused on the many kinds of indirect favors that are showered on places like Bandon Dunes through government policies that influence the flow of money from the public to private interests and often serve to reinforce benefits for those who are already successful.
 ''In every situation, governments need to ask what the necessary public role is,'' said Irene S. Rubin, a public finance expert at Northern Illinois University. ''Why is the government even involved in this activity? What is the public good?''
 No official tally of business subsidies exists, but in separate studies Peter S. Fisher of the University of Iowa and Kenneth F. Thomas of the University of Missouri estimated that state and local subsidies aimed at creating jobs total about $50 billion annually. More subtle subsidies like those that benefit Bandon Dunes are not counted in those figures and may be even larger.
 Such government subsidies have been challenged as inefficient by a broad spectrum of critics, from the libertarian Cato Institute and the conservative Heritage Foundation to liberal groups like Good Jobs First. 
 To be sure, said Martin S. Feldstein, a Harvard University economics professor and a former chief economic adviser to President Ronald Reagan, some government subsidies can be beneficial for society. 
 ''A subsidy for flu vaccines is good,'' he said, ''because if you are vaccinated I am less likely to get flu by contagion.'' But job subsidies are a drag on the economy, he added, ''unless the local gain exceeds the loss in the rest of the nation.''
 In the beginning, there were no subsidies at Bandon Dunes. That stands in contrast to many projects where state and local agencies compete to attract investments in factories, corporate headquarters and other developments that claim to create or retain jobs.
 ''I am the sole owner -- no one else would have invested,'' said Mr. Keiser, who paid $2.4 million, half the asking price, for his first parcel of scrub land in 1990. The country may seem overrun with golf courses, but Mr. Keiser had something else in mind. He calls it ''dream golf,'' modeled after the age-old seaside links in Scotland where the game was invented.
 Tens of thousands of golfers now come each year, many in corporate jets, to play on three courses, all considered among the best in the world. They lie on the sandy bluffs above the Pacific Ocean, with no power poles, no traffic and no whine from electric golf carts, because players must walk, carrying their own bags or relying on caddies to help them navigate the course. Stiff winds carry balls unpredictably; wet weather is common.
 Bandon Dunes has become extraordinarily popular. This year about 120,000 rounds of golf will be played, at a typical cost in season of more than $200 a person. Lodging and meals add hundreds more to the expense. Among the visitors have been Bill Gates, Michael Jordan and Don Johnson. 
 After the resort was built without government aid, the first subsidy was put in place only after Mr. Keiser's lawyers succeeded in eliminating for three years the larger property-tax bill that would normally accompany new construction -- a tax break worth $99,000 this year.
 John Griffith, the Coos County commission chairman, complained that the tax cut had been sought after the decision was made to invest. ''It is supposed to be an incentive to attract new investment, not a reward for an investment you have already decided to make,'' said Mr. Griffith, who was almost alone among public officials in opposing the subsidy. The incentive was supported by the others as a means of rewarding Mr. Keiser for his investment in the area.
 The city of Bandon also allowed Mr. Keiser to buy into a proposed reservoir project, which would produce water for the town and for another golf course he may build south of here. The project requires condemnation of land, which can be done only by a government agency.
 But those two relatively modest government subsidies pale in comparison to the support for private jets that has made the resort far more accessible. About 20 miles north of Bandon Dunes lies an airport, which handles only three commercial flights a day. The airport was originally created to serve planes guarding the coast during World War II.
 Before the first golf course opened in 1999, perhaps three private jets a year landed here, said Gary W. LeTellier, the airport director. Last year 5,000 private jets came; the number should grow to as many as 7,500 once the expansion is completed, Mr. LeTellier said.
 The airport expansion is being financed by a tax paid on all commercial airline tickets and state bonds backed by revenue from the Oregon lottery, which is heavily used by the state's poor. 
 Even if the planned growth of the resort leads to a doubling of the full-time payroll to 650, the airport expansion alone represents a one-time cost to taxpayers of almost $48,000 a job. The average pay for a full-time Bandon Dunes worker, including benefits and tips, is about $36,000.
 The biggest subsidy is even more hidden, a consequence of the rules under which executives make personal use of company jets. Most executives do not pay directly; instead the value of the flights is supposed to be counted as income.
 In most cases, the executive's only expense is higher income taxes. Some companies reimburse executives for these taxes and even pay the taxes on the reimbursement.
 Moreover, under current government rules, the income attributed to personal use of such jets is only a fraction of the real cost. Take a trip that costs a company $100,000. Of that, $35,000 is borne by the federal government because such expenses are tax deductible. The other $65,000 is borne by shareholders in the form of lower profits. 
 Yet the executive owes no more than a few thousand dollars in taxes. That's because to calculate income taxes on personal flights, the government counts only a portion of costs, excluding, among other things, flights to position a plane or fly it home empty. 
 Based on the number of corporate jets flying here, an average four-hour flight time and total costs of $4,000 per hour, the subsidy from taxpayers works out to about $12 million, with shareholders effectively paying about twice that. For the 325 existing jobs, that adds up to an annual total of $37,000 a job.
 Michael Greenstone, a professor of economics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said that the subsidy is a significant boon to Mr. Keiser and his customers, sharply reducing the expense of reaching such a remote location.
 As the owner of a private business, Mr. Keiser personally bears the full cost of the leased Gulfstream 200 that brings him from his home in Chicago to Bandon Dunes roughly every six weeks. The resort never asked for the tax subsidy for executives, he said. And if taken away, he added, ''I think that it would have negligible impact on us.''
 ''Certainly from the recipient point of view,'' Mr. Keiser said, ''I'm pleased that there is a subsidy and know very well that it is a subsidy that can be changed at any point in time. That is why we have a Congress, to look at things like that.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Keiser created the Bandon Dunes Golf Resort, which each year attracts visitors from around the world, using 5,000 business jets. (Photographs by Andrew M. Daddio for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 The Bandon Dunes Golf Resort has created 325 full-time jobs, but much controversy swirls around the subsidies and tax exemptions it received. (Photo by Andrew M. Daddio for The New York Times)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); GOLF (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); RESORTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); LOTTERIES (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (66%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); VACCINES (62%); INFLUENZA (62%); ANTIVIRALS (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



285 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: More Trouble in Subprime Mortgages

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14 

 BODY:
Delinquencies and foreclosures among homeowners with weak credit moved higher in the first quarter, particularly in California, Florida and other formerly hot real estate markets, according to an industry report released on Thursday.
 The report, published by the Mortgage Bankers Association, came as the Federal Reserve held a hearing on what regulators could do to address aggressive abusive lending practices. Also Thursday, the latest survey showed that mortgage rates this week reached their highest level in almost a year; the national average for a 30-year mortgage was 6.74 percent, up from 6.53 percent last week, according to Freddie Mac, the mortgage giant.
The delinquency report presented a mixed picture. It indicated that more homeowners with tarnished, or subprime, credit are likely to have trouble making house payments, especially as interest rates rise. But it also suggested that, at least so far, the problems have not extended very far into the larger pool of prime borrowers, whose interest rates are lower because of their stronger credit. 
 At the end of March, the percentage of all loans that were delinquent or in foreclosure, 6.12 percent, was little changed from the end of last year and up from 5.39 percent from March 2006.
 The national numbers benefited from a decrease in the defaults among loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration. The agency and the lenders it works with have been restructuring two out of every three loans in foreclosure, said Douglas Duncan, chief economist with the Mortgage Bankers Association. And it appears similar efforts to renegotiate mortgages to keep borrowers in their homes may also be holding down defaults overall.
 ''We are seeing more loan modifications and foreclosures and once loans go through either of those processes the loans go out of those databases,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com. But he cautioned ''they might come back. The recidivism on those loans is very high.''
 For subprime borrowers, the outlook remained bleak.
 Nearly 19 percent of all subprime loans, or 1.1 million mortgages, were either delinquent by more than 30 days or in foreclosure, up from 17.9 percent at the end of last year. About 140,000 subprime mortgages entered foreclosure, a process that can last several months, in the first three months. About 20,000 of those were in California.
 ''The storm of foreclosure is happening silently across the country,'' said Martin D. Eakes, chief executive of the Center for Community Self-Help, a nonprofit organization based in North Carolina that operates a credit union and the Center for Responsible Lending.
 Mr. Eakes, who was speaking at the Fed hearing, criticized the central bank for failing to use its authority over mortgage lending to curb practices that, he said, caused the current problems by giving people loans they could not afford. 
 Fed officials did not directly respond to the complaints. But in opening remarks, Randall S. Kroszner, a governor on the Fed's board, said the central bank shared responsibility over mortgage lending with other state and federal regulators.
 ''Rising foreclosures in the subprime market over the past year have led the board to consider whether and how it should use its rulemaking authority to address these concerns,'' Mr. Kroszner said. ''In doing so, however, we must walk a fine line. We must determine how we can help to weed out abuses while also preserving incentives for responsible lenders.''
 The Fed first heard from a panel of mortgage lenders and non-profit housing groups and in the afternoon from a panel of state regulators, attorneys general and academics.
 In the morning, representatives from mortgage companies and an association of mortgage brokers parried, mostly in good humor, with people representing nonprofit housing groups that are the leading advocacy voice speaking on behalf of subprime borrowers.
 The opposing sides appeared to agree that the mortgage industry got carried away in the recent housing boom but disagreed sharply on the scope of the problem and what should be done.
 The nonprofit housing advocates attacked no-documentation loans, in which lenders do not verify that borrowers earn incomes listed on loan applications; prepayment penalties, which make it more expensive to refinance; and underwriting practices that overlook whether borrowers can ultimately repay their loans.
 Lenders generally argued against new regulations, saying that most of the practices being criticized may have been abused but can be very effective in helping lower-income borrowers if used prudently.
 ''There are folks that do this business the right way,'' said Pablo Sanchez, a national mortgage production specialist with JPMorgan. ''I would hate to have this as the last record that this is all the lenders' fault.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Randall Kroszner, a Federal Reserve governor, said the Fed ''must walk a fine line'' in curtailing mortgage abuses without choking credit. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg News)(pg. C7) Chart: ''More Troubled Loans'' The share of subprime loans that were delinquent climbed higher in the first quarter of this year. Foreclosures started in the quarter: 2.43% Total past due: 13.77% Graph tracks percentage of delinquent subprime loans (quarterly) since 2002. (Source by Mortgage Bankers Association)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (94%); FORECLOSURE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); FAIR LENDING (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%)

PERSON: BRUCE DUNCAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



286 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1554 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Split Deepens, With Government in Chaos

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER and STEVEN ERLANGER; Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza City.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, June 14 

 BODY:
The Palestinian territories seemed headed Thursday to a turbulent political divide. Masked Hamas gunmen took control of the Gaza Strip and the Fatah president dissolved the 3-month-old unity government, declaring a state of emergency and plans for elections. 
 An aide to President Mahmoud Abbas announced the decrees, including the firing of Prime Minister Ismail Haniya of Hamas, at a West Bank news conference after Hamas militias overran Fatah strongholds in Gaza, dragging men into the street and shooting them.
The territories that President Bush said he wanted to see become a state before he left office appeared torn asunder. 
 With Hamas controlling Gaza, it was not clear that Mr. Abbas had the power to carry out his decrees. A Hamas spokesman in Gaza, Sami Abu Zuhri, dismissed them. ''Prime Minister Haniya remains the head of the government, even if it was dissolved by the president,'' Mr. Zuhri said. ''In practical terms these decisions are worthless.'' 
 Even Mr. Abbas's supporters were dubious. ''An emergency government would be meaningless here,'' said Mkhaimar Abusada, a political scientist at the Fatah-affiliated Al Azhar University in Gaza. ''It wouldn't be able to do anything. Hamas is everywhere. That's the bottom line.''
 The scene in Gaza was one of prayerful celebration for Hamas mixed with revenge. Hamas fighters took over the Fatah-run Preventive Security compound, driving away in cars loaded with weapons, computers, office furniture and other equipment. 
 Bystanders were shocked. Ghassan Hashem, 37, a civil servant, said: ''I see Iraq here. There is no mercy. We are afraid. See how ferocious this fight was? There is no future for us.'' 
 Islam Shahwan, a spokesman for the Hamas militia, told Hamas radio triumphantly: ''The era of justice and Islamic rule has arrived.'' 
 The prime minister of Israel, Ehud Olmert, said, ''I call on my friend Abu Mazen,'' referring to Mr. Abbas, who was in Ramallah, ''to take the opportunity, now that almost the entire world understands the viciousness, the brutality of Hamas, to exercise his authority as the leader of the Palestinian people.''
 Israel will do what it can, he said in an interview with The New York Times in Tel Aviv, to ''be helpful and supportive of the Palestinian people in every possible way, including economic cooperation and security cooperation.''
 Mr. Olmert will travel to Washington over the weekend for talks with President Bush, which will focus on the collapse of Fatah in Gaza and Mr. Abbas's chances of success. Mr. Olmert is expected to tell Mr. Bush that Israel favored sealing off the Israeli-occupied West Bank from the infection of Gaza, continuing to prevent contact between them. 
 In security terms, Israel would like to seal off Gaza from the West Bank as much as possible, to prevent the spread of Hamas military power there, where Israeli troops still occupy the territory. Israel would also like to confront Hamas with the responsibility for governing Gaza -- providing jobs and food and security.
 Israeli officials suggested that Israel would work with Mr. Abbas and a Fatah government in the West Bank, and could gradually hand over to it the remaining Palestinian tax moneys, about $562 million, withheld since Hamas took power a year ago in March. ''To give the money to a Hamas government would be reckless,'' one senior Israeli official said. ''To give it to a Fatah government is an opportunity.''
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice expressed support for Mr. Abbas's decrees, saying he had ''exercised his lawful authority.'' Since Fatah conforms to the international conditions -- accepting Israel's right to exist and all previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements, and forswearing violence -- a government run by it without Hamas would presumably not be subject to international isolation and restrictions.
 The United States, Israel and the European Union consider Hamas, which seeks Israel's destruction, a terrorist group. But it may be very difficult for the United States and the European Union to stop aiding the 1.5 million Palestinians in Gaza, no matter who their rulers, and divert all aid through Mr. Abbas, who would have little influence in Gaza.
 Some on the Israeli right suggest Gaza is lost and should be treated like southern Lebanon, where Hezbollah rules another kind of mini semi-state.
 But some Palestinians believe that Fatah and Hamas may also come together again. Mr. Abbas says the emergency government will rule until new elections are possible -- but Hamas will not accept early elections. And it may be that another Arab government, like Egypt or Saudi Arabia, will soon step in to try to patch together the nascent Palestinian state, which is in danger of collapsing.
 Palestinians are unlikely to want to give up the idea of a Palestinian nation in both areas, with East Jerusalem as its capital. And Hamas has a significant number of followers in the West Bank, too, even if its fighters are far less well equipped and largely stay underground because of the Israeli occupation.
 Hamas argues that it has purged the security forces of ''corrupted elements'' who were in league with Israel and the United States to harm Hamas. Hamas wants a restored unity government where the security forces would all report to the Interior Minister, effectively meaning Fatah would give up much of its remaining power. 
 In Gaza, Hamas began to settle scores. Its men killed a senior Fatah commander in the north, Samih al-Madhoun, who had vowed on the radio to kill scores of Hamas members. He was captured in an exchange of fire, brought to the house of a Hamas fighter who died in the exchange and killed, Hamas said.
 More evident was the lack of Fatah leaders or commanders on the ground. The Gaza strongman Muhammad Dahlan, the former chief of Gaza's Preventive Security who is now Mr. Abbas's national security adviser, has been abroad for weeks for medical treatment. He returned to Ramallah on Thursday. His close ally, Gen. Rashid Abu Shbak, another former Preventive Security chief, is also outside the Gaza Strip, and the current Preventive Security head, Yussef Issa, was nowhere to be seen as the compound fell. 
 Of the few prominent Fatah figures left in Gaza, said to be on a Hamas hit list, some were escaping by boat to the Egyptian border. 
 Preventive Security cracked down on Hamas in 1996, led by Mr. Dahlan. Many of those who were imprisoned remember the treatment they received as cruel and humiliating. 
 ''The Preventive Security has a special meaning for Hamas,'' said Mr. Zuhri. ''Our fighters were tortured and killed inside.'' 
 He told reporters that the fall of the compound was ''the second liberation of the Gaza Strip.'' The first time, he said, ''It was liberated from the herds of the settlers,'' referring to Israel's withdrawal of all troops and settlers from Gaza in 2005. ''This time it was liberated from the herds of the collaborators,'' he said of Fatah. 
 The battle for the Preventive Security compound lasted 24 hours, and neighbors said they saw members of the force who surrendered being shot in the legs. Others reported having witnessed killings. 
 According to Dr. Muawiya Hassanein, head of the emergency medical service in Gaza, 27 Palestinians were killed in the violence on Thursday. 
 Gaza has become increasingly cut off from the world and from key supplies.
 All crossings from Israel and Egypt were closed because of the fighting, said Shlomo Dror, speaking for the Coordinator of Activities in the Territories, the Israeli agency that deals with the Palestinians.
 Palestinians are not working on their side of the crossings, he said, and the Palestinian in charge of the Karni crossing, the main goods terminal to and from Israel, has been kidnapped. Karni has been closed since June 9.
 Electricity and water continue to flow into Gaza from Israel and Egypt, but he said that fuel oil was running low and could disrupt electricity generation in two days.
 The International Committee of the Red Cross managed to bring in a small convoy of vehicles with blood supplies, Mr. Dror said, and nearly 150 Gaza businessmen left the territory on Thursday morning, ''But we don't know if they'll be allowed to come back,'' he said.
 Concern was mounting both inside and outside the Gaza Strip over the welfare of its 1.5 million residents, many of whom are already impoverished. The European Union announced it was suspending its aid projects there, and the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, which helps the 70 percent of Gazans who are refugees or their descendants, said Wednesday that it was curtailing its operations until the fighting stopped.
 ''I don't know if Hamas has a strategy for the day after,'' said Mr. Abusada, the political scientist, adding, ''There are more questions than answers.'' 
 There was talk both in Mr. Abbas's headquarters and among worried Palestinians in Gaza about requesting an international force to come to Gaza. 
 ''This is the beginning of the separation of the Gaza Strip and the West Bank,'' said Mr. Abusada, referring to the two Palestinian territories that were eventually supposed to make up an independent Palestinian state. 
 ''This is the lowest point in our struggle. We Palestinians are writing the final chapters of our national enterprise,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hamas gunmen fired into the air yesterday in Gaza City, where they celebrated the capture of their rival Fatah's Preventive Security headquarters. (Photo by Wissam Nassar/MaanImages, via Associated Press)
Palestinians in Gaza yesterday gathered around the body of Samih al-Madhoun, a Fatah commander whom Hamas said it killed. (Photo by Ibraheem Abu Mustafa/Reuters)
In the West Bank city of Nablus yesterday, members of Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades arrested a man said to be a member of Hamas. (Photo by Jaafar Ashtiyeh/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A8)
 Hamas fighters took over the Fatah-run Preventive Security compound in Gaza City yesterday, and looted it of weapons and equipment. (Photo by Ibraheem Abu Mustafa/Reuters)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); AL FATAH (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); RELIGION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); AL-AQSA MARTYRS BRIGADES (59%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (89%); EHUD OLMERT (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



287 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Boom Times For Banks In Venezuela

BYLINE: By JENS ERIK GOULD

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
In marathon speeches peppered with quotes from Marx and accolades to Che Guevara, President Hugo Chavez repeatedly vows to do away with capitalism in Venezuela. But it turns out that Mr. Chavez's economic policies have been generating a boom for those most capitalist of institutions -- Venezuela's banks.
 Record public spending, fueled by high oil prices, is flooding this flourishing economy with cash. Government currency controls are trapping much of that money in the country. The extra cash, in turn, is increasing consumer spending. The banks are taking advantage of that by handing out scores of loans, advertising on flashy billboards across Caracas.
And with interest rates lower than the rate of inflation, ''you would be stupid not to take out a loan right now,'' said Richard Francis, a director of sovereign ratings at Standard & Poor's. 
 As a result, bank profits grew 33 percent last year, led by increases of more than 100 percent in credit card loans and 143 percent in automobile credit, according to Softline Consulting, a financial analysis firm here. The banking and insurance industries' contribution to the gross domestic product rose 37 percent in 2006, the central bank said.
 The market looked attractive enough two years ago that the Stanford Financial Group of Houston put political risk on the back burner to open a dozen branches here. Now, remodeling its office tower in the Caracas business district of El Rosal, the bank has seen its revenue in Venezuela grow fourfold, and its credit portfolio nearly tripled last year.
 Still, the banks may be thriving too much for the government's liking. Mr. Chavez warned last month that the state could take over the industry if it did not offer low-cost financing to Venezuelan businesses. Among the institutions that would be affected by such a move are Citigroup and the Spanish banks Santander and BBVA, which control lucrative outlets here. 
 Venezuelan private industry is well aware that the president is not afraid of nationalizing. He made similar threats before the government bought out American companies' stakes in the largest private electric and telephone utilities this year. Venezuela also took over operation of multibillion-dollar oil projects in May.
 Bankers do not dismiss the possibility of an eventual takeover in their business, but they do not expect such a move in the short or medium term. ''The government needs private investment in banking,'' said Diran Sarkissian, president of the Stanford Bank in Venezuela. ''Ask them if they have the personnel to manage 50 financial institutions.''
 Oscar Garcia Mendoza, president of the locally owned Venezolano de Credito and one of the few bankers openly critical of the Chavez government, said that the threat could be seriously intended but that ''it would be a disaster that would affect millions of Venezuelans who trust the banking system for their savings.''
 In the meantime, customers have been taking advantage of the expansion in credit. Betzaida Guerra, 43, for example, said she discovered in a newspaper ad last year that a bank could finance an operation she had long wanted but could not afford. Within weeks, she secured credit for the nearly $5,000 surgery to enlarge her breasts. 
 ''I was excited,'' said Ms. Guerra, an accountant from a Caracas suburb, who has nearly finished paying off her 12-month loan. ''I saw the advertisement and thought, 'The way out has arrived.' ''
 The expanded use of credit is apparent in upper-middle-class Caracas neighborhoods like Altamira, where Gabriel Jimenez was getting ready to drive his new black Mercedes-Benz C200 sedan off the lot. Mr. Jimenez had bought the same model without financing in 2000, but this time he chose a 48-month loan to pay off most of the cost at 19 percent interest. The Venezuelan-owned Banesco approved his loan in only 72 hours.
 ''The process is really easy,'' said Mr. Jimenez, a divorce lawyer, before hopping into the driver's seat, smelling the new car's scent and playing with its gadgets. ''Before, interest rates were so high that it wasn't worth it.''
 The Altamira Mercedes dealership, which opened last year because of rising demand for luxury cars, has sold 9 of every 10 automobiles on credit this year since it began advertising the financing option in local newspapers, the director of operations, Vicente Amengual, said. Last year, only one of 10 was bought with a loan.
 Government officials point to the booming banks as an indicator of a healthy economy, which grew more than 10 percent last year and nearly 9 percent in the first quarter of 2007. 
 They say that the surge in the use of credit reflects growing consumer power and access to banking services for the country's poor, many of whom do not have bank accounts. 
 A burgeoning number of state-financed development banks have increased access to microcredit loans for low-income Venezuelans. Yolanda Vera, from the lower-class area of Propatria in western Caracas, said one such institution, a women's development bank called Banmujer, has given her a series of loans totaling $2,500 over the last three years for a start-up business that produces table linen.
 ''It has been a great push,'' said Ms. Vera, 50, who left her job at a cloth factory to open the business. ''I always wanted to have my own company.''
 Banks have profited as well from Argentine bonds they bought from the Venezuelan government in 2005 and 2006 at the official exchange rate. Then they sold the bonds for dollars and profited by buying bolivars at a higher black market rate. ''They were very attractive earnings,'' said Miguel Octavio of BBO Financieros of Caracas.
 This year, banks earned commissions as intermediaries for $7.5 billion in bonds issued by the state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela, the largest corporate bond sale in the country's history.
 But bank directors say these advantages and current revenue are more than offset by government regulations that are making the sector more vulnerable. Banks are required to commit 32 percent of their loans to specific areas of the economy, including agriculture, housing and microcredit. Coming changes in the country's banking law may increase that percentage, said Ricardo Sanguino, president of the National Assembly's Finance Commission.
 ''Here, the norms change,'' Mr. Sarkissian said. ''Every day they give us more news, a new regulation. That is constant.'' 
 The central bank, which has lost most of its autonomy from the government, announced in April that it would force private banks to double the amount of cash they deposit in their reserves, to 30 percent, in an effort to curb inflation. In the same week, Mr. Chavez ordered Fogade, the country's bank deposit protection fund, to transfer all its assets to the government, which would then distribute the cash to the poor. 
 Critics also say that Venezuela's inflation rate of more than 19 percent, the highest in Latin America, could force the government to raise interest rates. That, in turn, could make it more difficult for borrowers to pay back their loans. 
 Still, even with the ground shifting beneath them, banks expect to keep prospering, at least in the short term, as long as high oil prices continue to energize consumption.
 After all, these days Venezuelans can get financing to buy silicone for plastic surgery at their local pharmacy. At a Locatel drug store in eastern Caracas, eight people a day request loans administered through a Banesco credit card for implants.
 ''Lots of people come, especially during Christmas, Easter and graduation season,'' a saleswoman, Solsyret Delgado, saidas customers lined up at her register to inquire about the credit card offer. ''We've given them to almost everyone.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Because of liberal lending, Betzaida Guerra was able to finance nearly $5,000 for breast enlargement surgery. (Photo by David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times )(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); COUNTRY RISK (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); SOVEREIGN RISK (76%); INFLATION (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



288 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 934 words

PERSON: Kathryn W. Davis 

HEADLINE: A Feisty Philanthropist at 100, With a Five-Year Plan

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

DATELINE: Tarrytown 

 BODY:
PRECEDED by the authoritative tap of her stylish blue-and-white cane, and trailed by an animated Maltese typecast as doggie-in-waiting to a spry centenarian, Kathryn W. Davis, pacifist and adventurer, methodically descends the imposing staircase of Broad Oak, her bluff-top colonial overlooking her beloved Hudson River. How beloved? She is celebrating her centenary this year by giving it ''a little gift'' of $20 million. The trip from the second floor, where she keeps an easel at the foot of her bed and paints water-dominated landscapes -- she's a Pisces -- in two-hour bursts, is silent, except for an encouraging yip or two.
 Mrs. Davis, the widow of Shelby Cullom Davis, the innovative Wall Street financier (he transformed a $100,000 investment in 1947 into $848 million in capital by 1993), economics adviser to Thomas E. Dewey's 1940 and 1944 presidential campaigns, and United States ambassador to Switzerland during the Nixon administration, apologizes for going slowly on the stairs. And for using a cane. Its constant presence is a consequence of breaking a hip on the tennis court back in her 90s. 
''I have a cane for every costume, all of them gifts,'' she says cockily, holding her complementary cane against her blue-and-white embroidered tunic. ''I started out doing it just for fashion, but now it's a necessity for keeping my balance. If you live to be a hundred, you'll understand.'' One can only hope. 
 She arrives at the bottom intact and barely winded. Evidently the rumors about her prowess paddling a kayak in Cold Spring and peddling a bicycle at her winter home on Jupiter Island in Florida aren't hyperbole. She is a headstrong great-grandmother with ''two children, eight grands and seven great-grands.'' She candidly adds, ''I had a third child, Priscilla, but they gave me too much ether in the delivery room and it went from me into her and killed her.''
 Mrs. Davis, who like her husband received a Ph.D from the University of Geneva in 1934, says, ''I was delighted to get married and have children; it was the best kind of job.'' 
 As for making the grand gesture -- by age 4 she was waving flags at suffragist parades, and after graduating from Wellesley College in 1928 she hopped a rickety flight (her first) from Finland to Leningrad for an anthropologic jaunt into the rugged Caucasus Mountains -- she's still at it.
 HER only concession to turning 100 in February was to compile a five-year-plan, ''because 105 is how long I think I should live, and everybody told me that when I got to be 100, I should do whatever I want. One thing I want to do is save the Hudson River, see it accessible and swimmable and green along the banks: parks are the lungs for people living in the city or anywhere.'' The Shelby Cullom Davis Foundation is her conduit. 
 Hence her $20 million gift to Scenic Hudson Inc., an environmental organization dedicated, as she is, to the proposition that the Hudson River Valley is a natural treasure to be preserved forever, not paved over for profit. The gift, being announced today at a ceremony accompanied by a speech from Mrs. Davis (she delivered her last public oration in 2006 while accepting the Woodrow Wilson Award for Public Service in Washington) will enable Scenic Hudson to extend its necklace of 40 riverfront parks and renovate the historic bathhouse at Kingsland Point Park in Sleepy Hollow. Scenic Hudson, whose board includes her grandson Chris, estimates that $1 billion is required to preserve 100,000 acres of threatened land along the Hudson from Westchester County to Albany. 
 ''They say money is the root of all evil, but it can be the root of good things, too, and I hope that's what mine will do,'' she says. Her other plans for her personal centenary: ''100 Projects for Peace,'' which awards $10,000 each to student projects formulated to promote peace; and a foreign-language program, administered by Middlebury College, that gives $10,000 scholarships to students who master Arabic, Chinese, Russian or other languages outside the traditional curriculum of Romance languages and German. 
 She subscribes to the theory that war should be outlawed as a means of settling disputes. ''I had to keep quiet and hope Nixon was right, but I felt he was wrong,'' she says of her husband's tenure as an ambassador during the Vietnam War. 
 ''I'm a little surprised to be giving away $20 million,'' she adds, sipping minted iced tea, ''but I trust Scenic Hudson will be careful and won't throw it around, won't let it fall into wrack and ruin, into the hands of the Trumps of the world.''
 Along with a thistledown of pastel hair -- ''It's a rinse; plain white hair is too stark at this age,'' she says of its apricot hue -- held back by pearl barrettes, she still has plenty of pep, much of it verbal. When Mrs. Davis bumped into Donald Trump at a civic function, she informed him that delighted as she was to meet him, she did not ever wish him to become her neighbor lest he build a skyscraper and block her river vistas. Mr. Trump gallantly replied that he would do no such thing. Sure you would, she replied tartly. 
 She grew up in Philadelphia, where her father ran Art Loom, a carpet manufacturer. The family traveled extensively in Europe and Asia, and besides cultivating an appreciation for fine art and textiles, her itinerary cultivated her political conscience. When she made the first of her 25 trips to Russia, her father was afraid she would return a Communist. Not exactly. ''I voted for Norman Thomas when I got back; he was the Socialist candidate.'' Her father was furious. Her mother applauded. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: KATHRYN W. DAVIS (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); BOATING & RAFTING (71%); MOUNTAINS (70%); BONE FRACTURES (70%); MARRIAGE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (76%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CAUCASUS MOUNTAINS (50%) SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Philanthropy

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



289 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Proposed Ban on Taco Trucks Stirs Animosity in a California Town

BYLINE: By CAROLYN MARSHALL

DATELINE: SALINAS, Calif. 

 BODY:
Jose Martinez left Mexico around 1988 and toiled for years in a patchwork of fields here, harvesting berries and lettuce and barely making ends meet. 
 In 2002, Mr. Martinez took advantage of a city law created to help novice entrepreneurs start businesses related to the city's largely Hispanic cultural heritage. He bought a taco truck, one of 31 licensed mobile catering vehicles in Salinas, and built it into a modestly profitable operation.
But the City Council, responding to a business group and its most vocal members -- the owners of Mexican restaurants -- is poised to vote next month on a draft ordinance to ban taco trucks and other catering vehicles from Salinas, a farm town about 120 miles south of San Francisco. 
 The proposed ordinance, which is still subject to revision, is the latest round in a two-year debate that some say has created a rift in this community, placing poorer Mexicans who are looking to better themselves at odds with longtime residents whose families emigrated years ago. 
 Salinas is not alone. Taco trucks, cultural icons and social magnets in Mexico, have become a flashpoint in at least a dozen cities in California -- including Santa Rosa, 55 miles north of San Francisco, and Gardena, 15 miles south of Los Angeles -- and in other states, like Arizona, Oregon and Tennessee.
 Restrictions are being debated in the Central Valley towns of Lathrop, Escalon and Lodi. In most cases, brick-and-mortar businesses resent the competition. Many observers say the taco truck issue illuminates far more complex dynamics, from the perils of rapid urban development to hidden resentments toward, and among, Hispanics. 
 ''It's rarely if ever discussed, but there are obvious racial undertones,'' said David LeBeouf, a lawyer for about 100 food vendors here and in several Central Valley cities. 
 The ordinance would phase out mobile and stationary catering vehicles, most of which are taco trucks, by 2011, and would restrict how, when and where 240 pushcart vendors could sell cold prepared foods. 
 ''Of course I'm worried,'' said Mr. Martinez, who at 36 is saving to buy a home. ''It's my job, my livelihood.'' 
 Salinas officials say the proposed ordinance was not intended to shut down the vendors. ''We don't want to put these people out of business,'' said the senior deputy city attorney, Chris Callihan. ''We want to move them off the street and put them into brick and mortar establishments.'' 
 Concern about mobile vendors escalated in 2005 when a trade group, the Salinas United Business Association complained about a proliferation of taco trucks, some run illegally, in east Salinas, a hardscrabble area that is slated for modest improvements, including new landscaping and a promenade. 
 The harshest complaints came from restaurateurs, who said that the trucks had an unfair competitive advantage, fostered urban blight, blocked traffic and were sometimes unsanitary. 
 ''We all love Mexico, but once you jump on a plane you leave Mexico behind,'' said Antonio Campos, the owner of a Mexican restaurant here. ''Once you are in America, you have rules, regulations and standards.'' 
 Taco trucks ''should go to the fields and feed the agriculture guys,'' said Mr. Campos, 29, a Salinas native of Mexican descent. 
 Mr. Campos and others want taco trucks off east Salinas streets. ''If they are mobile vendors, keep them mobile. We have way more overhead and the competition is not on a level playing field,'' Mr. Campos said. 
 Vendors pay $25,000 to $50,000 for trucks and about $1,000 for permits. 
 The vendors say critics are trying to undo the reputation of their businesses as clean, safe and respectable, known to provide a vital service to cash-strapped farm workers and to a growing legion of out-of-town food fanatics. The vendors have protested, circulated petitions and, as of May 31, hired Mr. LeBeouf.
 Vendors ''are very angry, very upset,'' Teresa Hernandez, a volunteer spokeswoman, said. ''That group's whole argument is that the vendors are in the way of revitalization.''
 Mr. Callihan said the city's main concern has always been on public health and safety, especially since an E. coli scare last fall when tainted spinach was traced to farms in this region.
 ''There is a huge concern around here because of E. coli,'' Mr. Callihan said. ''It happened after the vendor issue came up. But it fed into it and our need to make sure food is safe.''
 City officials, though, note that no Salinas vendor has been linked to a health scare, prompting some taco truck advocates to call the rationale for the ordinance ''a smoke screen.'' 
 ''It really comes down to competition,'' said Melanie Wong, a Salinas native and a frequent blogger on Chowhound.com. ''Why should one class of merchant roll over for another class of merchant?'' 
 Mr. LeBeouf said the ordinance's rules on how far vendors must be from restaurants and that set hours of operation from 3 p.m. to 6 a.m., were unrelated to health and safety.
 ''It's a restraint of trade and you cannot do it,'' Mr. LeBeouf said. ''The city may be banking on the fact that the vendors don't have the money or motivation to challenge it. That's not the way you make good law.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Antonio Campos, owner of a Mexican restaurant, supports the ban.
 One of the taco trucks in Salinas, Calif., that faces banishment under a proposed city ordinance. City officials cite public health fears. (Photographs by Rubin Ruiz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORDINANCES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); LAWYERS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); CATERING SERVICES (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALINAS, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



290 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: The Great Divide on Immigration

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Next Culture War'' (column, June 12):
 Millions of people who have entered our country and remained here illegally have broken our laws. If we are going to give all of them a pass -- amnesty with full citizenship upon a few years' wait and a minimal fine -- why don't we simply open our borders and accept everyone in the world who wishes to immigrate to the United States? How many millions will come? 
 Whenever thoughtful people wish to discuss these policies, we are accused of racism or bias against certain immigrant groups. I have no doubt that such views exist, but not everyone who opposes the immigration bill shares them. 
 In school, we are taught that the United States is a nation of laws. Why have we lost control of our borders? I would be happy to see more immigrants from different parts of the world, but let's find the will to put this in a legal context. Education has less to do with many opponents' reasoning than simple common sense. Mary St. Laurent Corning, N.Y., June 12, 2007 To the Editor:
 As someone who spent 30 years as a machinist and is now retraining in paralegal studies, I believe I've seen both sides of the divide that David Brooks speaks of in regard to attitudes toward immigration. 
 In my experience, the root of the national schism over immigration policy is not cultural attitude but economic reality. The fact of the matter is that few if any of the estimated 12 million people here in the United States illegally are here to work as actuarials or English professors or newspaper columnists -- the sorts of jobs normally held by university grads. They are here to work as bricklayers or welders or landscapers.
 I would posit that if illegal immigration were undermining the wages of editors and lawyers instead of janitors and kitchen staff, the current debate might sound quite a bit different. Glenn Baldwin Chicago, June 12, 2007 To the Editor: 
 David Brooks notes that immigration is not a partisan issue and does not dovetail with racist or nativist attitudes. He then suggests that the current controversy is a cultural clash between an educated elite, favoring a cosmopolitan approach to the world, and a less educated class, worried that increased diversity would threaten ancient ties of community and social solidarity. I believe that this last analysis is wrong.
 As a well-educated liberal, I favor cultural diversity and enabling of individualism, but not at the cost of widening the gap between the haves and have-nots in our society. The Bush-Kennedy-McCain immigration bill was impossibly complex and tried to encompass too much.
 Furthermore, it sided with the Chamber of Commerce in helping unscrupulous businesses attract and exploit illegal immigrant workers, whose subpar wages add to the profits of the rich and lower the prospects of American workers seeking fair employment. 
 When it comes to the distribution of America's income and wealth, economists indicate that the disparity between the wealthy and the rest of society is greater than at any time since the Great Depression. This is a trend that must be resisted and reversed. William Reusch Okemos, Mich., June 12, 2007 To the Editor:
 David Brooks argues that immigration is not a partisan issue, but study after study has shown that self-identifying as a Republican, particularly a conservative Republican, is one of the most potent predictors of hostility toward immigration. 
 Republican politicians have run on anti-immigration platforms because this is an issue that works for them. It is highly effective in mobilizing the part of the Republican base that is culturally conservative and angry about immigrants who are perceived as abusers of tax-supported programs. 
 Republicans and Democrats may dislike the current immigration bill in roughly equal proportions, but it is Republican voters who oppose it most intensely. Wayne A. Cornelius Director, Center for Comparative Immigration Studies University of California-San Diego La Jolla, Calif., June 12, 2007 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Matt Rota) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); WRITERS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); MACHINE TOOLS (73%); PARALEGALS (72%); AMNESTY (72%); LEGAL EDUCATION (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CITIZENSHIP (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



291 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Protesters of Shark Hunt Have New Strategy: They Get a Bigger Group

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

DATELINE: MONTAUK, N.Y., June 10 

 BODY:
When about 250 fishing boats sail out of Montauk Harbor on Friday in the hope of reeling in an enormous shark, and a share of $700,000 in prize money, they will be leaving trouble in their wake.
 For the past several years, the Star Island Yacht Club shark tournament, now in its 21st year, has faced only meager opposition from animal welfare advocates, who contend that such contests glorify the killing of declining species. But this time, the small band of demonstrators who plan to protest at the club's entrance have the backing of a powerful animal rights group, the Humane Society of the United States.
''We know that sport fishing is considered a central part of Montauk's economy and we are up against some strong financial interests, but there's also a macho element to it,'' said William Crain, a professor of psychology at City College of New York. He noted that in the first year of the protests, only he and his wife picketed. 
 The Humane Society, which has seven million members nationwide, has already shut down a small tournament in Destin, Fla., where it ran advertisements in newspapers, campaigned for a moratorium, organized protests and told officials about scientists' findings of declining shark populations. The society is using similar techniques on Long Island for the Star Island competition, and it is also campaigning against events this weekend in Ocean City, Md., and in July on Martha's Vineyard.
 ''These tournaments inflict incredible suffering and cruelty on the sharks, and they are particularly unconscionable given the disastrous state of the shark populations,'' said John W. Grandy, the society's senior vice president for wildlife and habitat protection.
 Scientists have warned for decades that populations of the more popular game sharks -- mako, blue, thresher, tiger, hammerhead and great white among them -- have plunged, many in the North Atlantic by at least half. They say the decline is caused largely by commercial harvesting, in which sharks are often a throwaway ''bycatch.'' 
 In February, after scientists at a conference of the World Conservation Union reported that humans kill more than 70 million sharks each year, the union downgraded the status of threshers, prized for their scythelike tails, and short-fin makos -- both favored by recreational and commercial fishermen -- from ''near threatened'' to ''vulnerable to extinction.'' They found that the North Atlantic population of blue sharks, the most heavily fished of the fast-swimming pelagic species, had fallen by half in recent years.
 Many in Montauk, part of the town of East Hampton, remain passionate about its image as a historic fishing port, and its fleet of about a hundred charter and commercial boats depends heavily on the shark season for revenue. 
 Tournament organizers and officials here and in other Long Island communities contend that the competitions are good for the economy, expose people to animals they may otherwise never see up close and operate under government limits that are intended to discourage wholesale slaughter. 
 In addition, they say that the carcasses help researchers, and that some catches, like the Star Island tournament's, help feed the poor. Thirty-five potential prize-winning sharks were landed last year, including a 399-pound thresher, enabling Star Island to give 1,750 pounds of shark meat to food pantries and group homes.
 Jay Schneiderman, a Suffolk County legislator whose family owns a motel in Montauk, said landing a big fish has always touched off excitement here. ''All the restaurants have big fish mounted on their walls,'' Mr. Schneiderman said. ''There's always been pride about that.''
 Dr. Grandy of the Humane Society acknowledged that greater threats are posed by commercial harvesting and by ''finning'' -- slicing off a shark's fins and dumping it back into the water to die -- a practice that is illegal in the United States and Mexico. 
 The crowds at Star Island cheer as each huge beast is hung by its tail and weighed. After a carcass is dumped on the dock, children poke at it, exclaim over its rows of fearsome teeth, and pose for family pictures as the animal is gutted, decapitated and sliced into steaks.
 ''It's like a petting zoo,'' said Richard Janis, Star Island's general manager. ''When else can a kid get close enough to a shark to touch it?'' 
 Sharks are highly migratory and rarely surface, making them difficult to survey. Only in recent years have scientists begun to study closely the effects of exploitation, said Enric Cortes, a research biologist with the National Marine Fisheries Service. One result has been general agreement among scientists that pelagic species have declined since the 1960s, when their meat increased in value, and the 1970s, when the movie ''Jaws'' touched off an international sport-fishing fury.
 Dr. Cortes said that many species like threshers are slow to reproduce, making them more vulnerable to overfishing.
 ''The people in Destin looked at the science and the conduct of their tournaments and decided they could no longer justify it,'' Dr. Grandy said. ''I am hopeful that people of good will and integrity will take that position up and down the East Coast.'' 
 But Dr. Timothy Holcomb, president of the Destin History and Fishing Museum, which sponsored the event in Florida, had a different recollection. ''They shut us down this year by threatening to scare off our donors,'' Dr. Holcomb said. ''The society said it had donors who would put up several million dollars for an advertising campaign to drive us out of business. We wanted to put the tournament on, but the museum just couldn't afford the fight.''
 The society may have met far more determined and deep-pocketed opposition in Montauk. 
 Tournament competitors come to Star Island from all over the world, having made substantial investments in luxury boats, crews, travel costs and an $800 entry fee.
 And there is Sam Gershowitz, the owner of the Star Island Yacht Club as well as a large scrap-metal processing company, who has a reputation for not scaring easily. Mr. Gershowitz issued a statement saying, ''Fishing has been an important part of Long Island's heritage and economy, and we are honored to continue the tradition.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A catch from a shark tournament off Montauk in 2003. The Humane Society is joining protests of a shark tournament there today. (Photo by Doug Kuntz) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (90%); FISHES (90%); ANIMAL WELFARE (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (89%); ANIMALS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (78%); SPORT FISHING (78%); FISHING BYCATCH (78%); WILDLIFE (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (57%); MAMMALS (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



292 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Energy Measure Blocked By Republicans in Senate

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14 

 BODY:
Senate Democrats, facing their first significant battle over a wide-ranging bill intended to reduce oil consumption, found themselves blocked by Republicans on Thursday and postponed all significant votes until next week.
 Republicans vowed to filibuster over a Democratic proposal that would force electric utility companies to generate a big share of their power from renewable fuels, and Democrats failed to muster the 60 votes needed to close off debate.
The impasse forced Democrats to begin negotiating a possible compromise with Republicans and the power industry, which have argued that companies in many parts of the country simply cannot generate enough power from wind or solar energy to meet the requirements. 
 ''We're trying to work something out,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate Democratic leader. But by early evening, the principle negotiators had failed to reach a deal and Democrats decided to postpone further voting until next Tuesday.
 The Democrats' unexpected difficulty meant they made virtually no progress on the energy bill after about a week of floor debate. Though the Senate's intricate rules make such logjams common, the delay was a bad omen for what lawmakers already knew would be a long and grueling fight on one of the signature issues of energy conservation and renewable fuels.
 At issue on Thursday was a provision called the ''Renewable Portfolio Standard,'' which would require electric utilities to obtain 15 percent of their electricity from wind, solar or biomass energy by 2020. 
 But the energy bill would make profound changes in other areas as well. It would require car companies to increase the average fuel economy of cars and light trucks to 35 miles a gallon by 2020. It would also require a huge increase in the production of renewable fuels for cars and trucks and require the federal government to set tougher efficiency standards for electric appliances. The measure would also give the government more power to prosecute ''price gouging'' by oil companies. 
 Senate Democrats are also drafting a tax package that is expected to provide as much as $25 billion in incentives for renewable fuels and conservation -- much of which would be paid for by tax increases on the nation's oil companies. Those provisions face intense opposition from the affected industries, and President Bush has threatened to veto any bill that contains the price-gouging measure. 
 At the moment, renewable fuels produce less than 1 percent of the nation's electricity, and wind power is by far the biggest alternative source for that electricity. Supporters of the measure say other sources, such as methane from landfills, could eventually play a major role.
 ''The benefits are clear,'' said Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico and the energy bill's primary author. ''This portfolio standard would reduce our dependence on traditional polluting sources of electricity. It would reduce our dependence on foreign energy sources. It would reduce the growing pressure on natural gas as a fuel for the generation of electricity.''
 But Republicans said the goals were unrealistic because many parts of the country -- especially in the southeast -- do not get enough wind to meet the bill's goals. 
 A substitute proposed by Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the ranking Republican on the Energy Committee, would have allowed utilities to meet their goal with nuclear energy and would have allowed states to ''opt out'' of the federal requirement. 
 ''We cannot ignore the reality that some regions of the country cannot meet the R.P.S.,'' Mr. Domenici said. ''Since they cannot produce it, they'll have to pay a fine, a pretty whopping penalty.''
 Democrats defeated Mr. Domenici's proposal, 56 to 39, but Mr. Domenici vowed to block further voting through a filibuster and Democrats were one vote short of the 60 they needed to stop debate. 
 Mr. Reid, the majority leader, said he was confident of reaching an agreement. But while Mr. Bingaman and Mr. Domenici have collaborated on many issues in the past, they have sharply disagreed about imposing mandates on the use of renewable fuels.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); FILIBUSTER (91%); WIND ENERGY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); VETO (79%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); CONSUMPTION (78%); BIOMASS (77%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (76%); METHANE (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); LANDFILLS (60%)

PERSON: JEFF BINGAMAN (59%); HARRY REID (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



293 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Commuters Get a Chance to Take Their Complaints to the Top

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
Ivette Davila, who had an hour to kill yesterday on her way from the cable television network where she works during the day to the store where she works at night, could have done many things in the sprawling Atlantic Avenue subway station in Brooklyn. 
 She could have tried to become a sailor: the Navy had a recruiting table set up. Or she could have tried to become a police officer: the Police Department had its own recruiters and its own table. Or she could have rushed through the station the way she usually does. 
But she stopped to ask something of someone who does not visit the Atlantic Avenue subway station nearly as often as she does: Howard H. Roberts Jr., the president of New York City Transit. He had chosen that hour to face the public, taking questions from commuters, and Ms. Davila had a question.
 ''Why is it they want to increase the fare when they said a year or two ago they had a surplus?'' she asked. ''They're making it a hardship for people like me who have to work two jobs.''
 It was hard to hear in the noisy corridor. Mr. Roberts was standing behind a wooden lectern. Ms. Davila was standing in front of the lectern. He said something about revenue from subsidies and revenue from ''the fare box'' -- in other words, from fares paid by commuters like Ms. Davila.
 ''In this business, expenses keep going up, and we're trying to make up for it,'' he said, ''so we're trying to get more subsidies, but we may, may, have to get more from the fare box.
 ''We'll do the best we can not to raise fares,'' he continued, ''and if we have to, we'll do our best to raise them as little as possible.''
 They shook hands and Ms. Davila walked away. He had not wowed her.
 ''I swear, I wanted to tell him, 'Speak in English now,' '' she said. ''His answer reminded me of when I was in college and taking economics. That didn't tell me why there was a surplus a year and a half ago.''
 So it went at what turned out to be a cross between open-mike night at a comedy club, minus the microphone and the comedy, and ''Face the Nation'' or ''Meet the Press,'' minus the lights, the cameras, the studio and the practiced questioners.
 Would Bob Schieffer or Tim Russert ever ask a question like the one Robert Martinez asked about what he called ''the deplorable conditions'' in the Jamaica Center Parsons/Archer station at the end of the E, J and Z lines? Would they mention ''one inch of urine on the floors if you go into the bathrooms,'' as he did?
 He said there had been no one to complain to -- until Mr. Roberts. ''He's working on it,'' Mr. Martinez said after their chat. ''It's a baby step, but it's a step.''
 Mr. Roberts, who was appointed in April and who was the vice president and chief operating officer for surface transit in the 1980s, had arrived shortly after 5 p.m., a few minutes late for what large posters in the station billed as ''Transit Talk.'' An assistant explained that the No. 4 train he rode to the station was delayed because a train in front of it had to be taken out of service. 
 Waiting near the lectern were more than 40 transit executives, most of whom were wearing dark suits with plastic name tags pinned on. As ''Transit Talk'' went on, Mr. Roberts turned to them for details he did not know. At times, he cupped his hand to his right ear -- he had some hearing loss, he explained later.
 ''Artillery and helicopters'' in Vietnam, he said.
 But he listened as more than 30 commuters stepped up, one by one. Sometimes he stepped out from behind the lectern. He had to when it was 7-year-old Naddie Marques's turn: she was not tall enough to see over the lectern.
 She forgot her question. But she showed Mr. Roberts the certificate she had received from the Brooklyn Music School and told him that she had enjoyed her dance lessons.
 ''Am I going to see you at the New York City Ballet some day?'' he asked.
 She laughed. Her mother, Barbara Sampson, said Naddie had wanted to ask why the subway so often made her late for her lessons. 
 A number of questioners were people in wheelchairs for whom accessibility is a personal issue and who said they looked forward to meeting with other high-level transit officials.
 Edith M. Prentiss, who uses a wheelchair and said she had a debilitating connective-tissue disease, said she had asked Mr. Roberts how many elevators she had to take to get to see him. 
 She said his reply was, ''I have no idea.''
 She said the answer was three subway trains and five elevators.
 She said he had promised to spend time following her through the subway and observing exactly what it took for her to get around. ''We'll make an appointment,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wheelchair users, including Joubert Mulor, right, were particularly eager to talk to Howard H. Roberts Jr. (Photo by Ramin Talaie for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%)

PERSON: TIM RUSSERT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



294 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1737 words

HEADLINE: If It's June, This Must Be Jazz

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

 BODY:
Every year in New York, toward the end of June, jazz suddenly becomes easier to understand. Not that the music empties out its tough ideas and becomes more glossy or simple-minded. Rather, the picture of what jazz is around the world grows sharper, as the possibilities of what to hear grow finer and deeper.
 The glut of good gigs has to do with the JVC Jazz Festival New York and the Vision Festival, which run concurrently in the last two weeks of June. Bookings in some of the jazz clubs are folded into the JVC schedule, but even unaffiliated small spaces, theaters and festivals get into the spirit, competing for listeners, making use of the players and audiences in town. 
As usual, a road map is in order. Here are some high points of the next two weeks, most of them from the festivals. The jazz listings in this section have more complete information about the riches of the season. Today Cassandra Wilson/Olu Dara In the early 1990s Cassandra Wilson made ''Blue Light 'Til Dawn,'' an album with light, slow-moving, Southern-signifying arrangements informed by '60s folk and pop. The trumpeter, guitarist and songwriter Olu Dara, a Mississippian like Ms. Wilson, was one of her collaborators; his own subsequent solo albums, full of acoustic guitar grooves and rural-blues echoes, complemented hers. Central Park SummerStage, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, summerstage.org, 7 p.m., free. Tuesday 'Bourbon Street Comes to Broadway': Preservation Hall Jazz Band JVC-New York's first big concert is organized around the Preservation Hall Jazz Band of New Orleans, founded in 1961 by Allan and Sandra Jaffe, a young couple who became important guardians of the city's early jazz. (Among their boosters was George Wein, the original producer of the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival and also the founder of the JVC Festival. He visited New Orleans for the first time in 1962 and got a education in the city and its music from the Jaffes.)
 Long a beloved but sleepy part of New Orleans music history, the band has raised its profile in recent years, touring and recording with new vigor. Here the band, led by the trumpeter John Brunious, with the Jaffes' son Ben on bass, shares the stage with the keyboardist, singer, songwriter and producer Allen Toussaint, a New Orleans genius, as well as the violinist Jenny Scheinman and the saxophonist Steve Wilson, who can play with heart in almost any style. Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, 8 p.m., $40 to $55. Wednesday Branford Marsalis/Joshua Redman Trio Mr. Marsalis started making his own records in 1984, Mr. Redman nine years later. But as if responding to a common call, both these tenor saxophonists have crystallized what they do best and made possibly the best records of their careers over the last year: Mr. Marsalis's ''Braggtown'' and Mr. Redman's ''Back East.'' With Mr. Marsalis this comes down to the mechanics of his gloriously coordinated, hard-hitting quartet; with Mr. Redman, it's the clarity and flow of his improvising within the simplicity of a trio setting. Town Hall, JVC, 8 p.m., $50 to $65. Bill Dixon and Sound Vision Orchestra As a trumpeter Mr. Dixon breaks down his playing to liquid blobs of sound: slow, low and dark, or fast metallic smears. As a composer he sometimes writes music -- in the case of his Wednesday concert, dense and bracing large-scale orchestral material -- that he radically reshapes in performance. 
 Born in 1925, he was a senior member of the 1960s jazz avant-garde in New York even as it was starting. In 1964 he produced the October Revolution in Jazz, a four-day festival of music and politicized panel discussions about vanguard art and economics that was one of the models for today's Vision Festival. (He will receive a lifetime recognition award this year.) 
 Mr. Dixon will play new music with a 17-piece band, some of its members former students from the nearly 30 years he taught at Bennington College. ''It's an untitled long work, subdivided into a lot of sections,'' he said the other day. 
 He rehearses the band with written scores but lets real-time considerations -- how the room sounds, how certain people are playing -- change the piece as it's being performed. ''I'll be able to interlope or set up things,'' he explained. ''Section A, for instance, might not come at the beginning. It comes down to this: How do you make a piece of music sound both as though it were notated and as if it could only happen once this way?'' Vision,Angel Orensanz Foundation, 7:30, $30. Friday, June 22 50 Violins for Leroy Jenkins The violinist Leroy Jenkins died in February, at 74, and took a lot of history with him. Coming from a fertile time and place for American music -- Chicago in the 1940s and '50s -- he often became involved, after moving to New York, in bands and projects that were either leaderless avant-garde jazz cooperatives or complicated cross-discipline projects. (These range from his early small bands, like the Revolutionary Ensemble, to his late multimedia operas.) Along the way he built an entire community around him, and here he will be honored with a 50-violin salute, led onstage by the violinist Billy Bang. Vision, 7 p.m., $30. Stefano Bollani solo A fine and freewheeling Italian pianist in his mid-30s, Mr. Bollani has come to the crucial understanding that he can find an audience without having to choose among attitudes, influences and styles: deeply playful or serious, ragtime, pop, Prokofiev, Jobim, Keith Jarrett, whatever. He is a particularly good solo performer (as suggested by last year's ''Piano Solo,'' on ECM), so this performance will be a special one. Fazioli Salon at Klavierhaus, 211 West 58th Street, Manhattan, pianoculture.com, 8 p.m., $25. Saturday, June 23 Ganelin Trio Led by the Lithuanian pianist Vyacheslav Ganelin, the Ganelin Trio was the modern Soviet jazz group in the 1970s. In the '80s, when the group's recordings started to become known in the West, it became controversial. Full of improvisation and challenge, the music stood for an idea of freedom, yet Mr. Ganelin could never talk about it as such for fear of losing his livelihood. The group broke up in 1987, then re-formed; it has two new members now, the saxophonist Petras Vysniauskas and the drummer Klaus Kugel, and they're still playing highly interactive, tensile music. Vision, 7:30, $30. Sunday, June 24 Louis Moholo-Moholo A South African jazz drummer, Mr. Moholo-Moholo was part of the British jazz scene in the mid-'60s as a member of the Blue Notes and the Brotherhood of Breath, living in London and collaborating with South African and English musicians. (He recently returned to South Africa, where he leads a big band.) He's an exemplary modern drummer, in his flexibility between strong swing and a free-rhythm vocabulary, and he's still mostly unknown here: aside from one Vision Festival show six years ago, he hasn't played here since the 1960s. Vision, 9 p.m., $30. Monday, June 25 Lee Konitz Mr. Konitz turns 80 in October, and he remains radical, in his own way: He believes that a jazz improviser has to learn the basics, establish his own vocabulary, then try to escape his own patterns as much as possible.
 ''I feel more concerned with each note than I have ever been before,'' he said earlier this week. Starting from familiar ground on standards, he works variations on their melodies and can eventually travel toward a kind of sweet and lapidary free improvising. 
 This birthday concert -- organized by the saxophonist and arranger Ohad Talmor, a frequent collaborator over the last 15 years -- will show the two sides of Mr. Konitz, the improviser and the composer. He'll start off playing loosely and interactively among old friends: the saxophonists Joe Lovano and Ted Brown, the bassist Steve Swallow and the drummer Paul Motian. Then he'll perform his own pieces, arranged by Mr. Talmor, with three other groups: the Lee Konitz New Nonet; the Spring String Quartet, from Linz, Austria; and the Orquestra Jazz Matosinhos, a big band from Porto, Portugal. Zankel Hall, JVC, 8:30 p.m., $50. Wednesday, June 27 'Ron Carter: The Master at 70' The bassist Ron Carter, first famous as a member of Miles Davis's mid-1960s quintet and then loosed on the jazz world as a ubiquitous free agent, has played on so many records -- including more than 30 of his own -- that a concert like this seems almost necessary, never mind the fact that he turned 70 last month. He will perform with two other members of that great Davis group, the saxophonist Wayne Shorter and the pianist Herbie Hancock, alongside Billy Cobham on drums; in duet with the guitarist Jim Hall (a good thing, as their rich duet records are underrated); in a trio with the pianist Mulgrew Miller and the guitarist Russell Malone; and with his own quartet. Carnegie Hall, JVC, 8 p.m., $30 to $75. Friday, June 29 Nancy Wilson Ms. Wilson remains an exciting jazz singer, despite the light, low-pressure subtleties of her voice, and even if her records have been treated as a kind of antidote to excitement. (Her hits started showing up on the Billboard easy-listening chart in the mid-'60s, but few can condescend to the casually brilliant album ''Cannonball Adderley and Nancy Wilson'' or the recently released ''Live in Las Vegas.'') 
 She turned 70 in February, and her concert at Carnegie will bring on a plankful of admirers: the singers Dianne Reeves, Kurt Elling and Nnenna Freelon; the violinist Regina Carter; and the pianists Herbie Hancock and Ramsey Lewis. 
 Ms. Wilson has hardly ever sung a duet with another vocalist, and she says she has been thinking of asking a guest to help her sing her old hit ''Guess Who I Saw Today,'' about catching sight of a cheating spouse. (''Can I fix you a quick martini? As a matter of fact I'll have one with you/For, to tell you the truth, I've had quite a day too.'') ''I respect that more than any other song,'' she said the other day. ''It just defines what I like to do: to dig in and sing a lyric that's going to hit somebody sentimentally, or even hard.'' JVC, 8 p.m., $35 to $85. Where It's At The JVC New York Jazz Festival will run through June 30 at various locations. Full schedule and other information: festivalproductions.net. The Vision Festival will run through June 24 at the Angel Orensanz Foundation for the Arts, 172 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side; visionfestival.org. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Dixon will lead a 17-piece band in a program of new music as part of the Vision Festival on Wednesday. (Photo by Nan Melville for The New York Times)
Nancy Wilson will be joined by a number of her fellow singers at a JVC Jazz Festival concert at Carnegie Hall on June 29. (Photo by Stuart Ramson/Associated Press)(pg. E17) Drawings: Branford Marsalis performs Wednesday on a two-saxophone bill.
 Joshua Redman shares the Town Hall stage with Mr. Marsalis. (Drawings by Joe Ciardiello)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (91%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); SONG WRITING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); HISTORY (74%); CITIES (74%); THEATER (55%)

COMPANY: VICTOR CO OF JAPAN LTD (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007



295 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Not Everyone Is in the Red on Trade With China

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The great Chinese export machine is producing rising trade surpluses with the United States and soaring surpluses with Europe. But when it comes to the rest of the world, it is running a trade deficit. 
 China reported this week that its overall monthly trade surplus rose sharply in May, leaving it with a 12-month surplus of $216 billion, the most ever. To put that surplus in perspective, a decade ago it exported only $165 billion in goods, and the surplus came to just $26 billion.
Those figures may understate China's trade surplus. Chinese statistics show trade surpluses far smaller than are shown by figures released by China's trade partners.
 For 2005, the United States Treasury reported this week, the total deficits reported by all of China's trade partners came to $423 billion, while China reported a surplus of only $117 billion. 
 The American report concluded that most, but not all, of the discrepancy could be explained by two factors. First, China, like most other countries, includes the cost of shipping and insurance in its import figures, but not in exports. Second, many exports to Hong Kong are re-exported to other countries, and show up as Chinese imports in those countries' figures.
 But whatever the absolute level of the Chinese surplus, there is no doubt that it has been rising, and that its growth is now accelerating. Early in this decade, Chinese figures showed Europe with only a small trade deficit, but now that deficit is growing more rapidly than the one with the United States.
 The charts show 12-month totals for Chinese trade balances with Europe, the United States and the rest of the world. They also show how rapidly exports and imports in each area are growing.
 In 2001, when Western economies were weak, Chinese imports from America and Europe were growing more rapidly than Chinese exports. The opposite is true now.
 For the last 12 months, the Chinese surplus with the United States was $154 billion, as Chinese exports rose almost 22 percent while its imports rose less than 20 percent. The European surplus was smaller, at $117 billion, but exports to Europe were rising at a rate of more than 32 percent, far above the 18 percent growth rate in imports from Europe. 
 The Chinese surplus with the United States is now 62 percent higher than it was just two years ago, but the surplus with Europe is up 136 percent. One reason is that while the dollar lost more than 7 percent of its value against the Chinese currency over the last two years, the euro actually gained against it. 
 As China allowed its currency to appreciate gradually against the dollar, traders sent the euro up against the dollar at a faster rate.
 China's deficit with the rest of the world, now $54 billion, has been shrinking after hitting a peak of $86 billion early last year. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: China's trade balance with: Graph tracks China's trade balance with the United States, Europe and the rest of the world since 1997. 12-month change in Chinese exports to and imports from: Graph tracks 12-month change in Chinese exports to and imports from the United States, Europe and the rest of the world since 1997. (Source by China Customs, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); STATISTICS (77%); US DOLLAR (73%); EURO (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



296 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: One Word for Airplane Makers: Plastics

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

DATELINE: PARIS, June 15 

 BODY:
In the 1999 comedy ''Pushing Tin,'' John Cusack and Billy Bob Thornton portray rival air traffic controllers who spend their workday guiding planes in and out of New York's airports.
 A sequel, though, might be called ''Pushing Plastic.''
Facing mounting public pressure to become more fuel efficient and reduce emissions, the airlines are seeking to replace older jets in their fleets with lighter-weight, less-polluting planes. Increasingly, that means replacing the traditional aluminum components in a jet with plastic-based composites that can significantly reduce its weight.
 Aircraft makers, eager for orders, are responding with new designs that make more and more use of these composite materials.
 Louis Gallois, the chief executive of Airbus, a unit of EADS, pledged this week a 25 percent increase in spending on improving aircraft designs and technologies so that by 2020, Airbus aircraft will burn less fuel and emit 50 percent less carbon dioxide. 
 Boeing, too, is investing heavily in developing green technologies, working together with airlines and makers of jet engines.
 Much of this investment will be devoted to finding uses for new, lighter materials to increase the fuel efficiency of the planes. Both Boeing and Airbus will be using composites in at least half the structural components of their latest wide-body jets, the 787 Dreamliner and the A350-XWB.
 A composite, broadly defined, is a combination of two or more industrial materials that exhibits the best properties of each and additional qualities that the individual materials do not possess alone.
 In the aerospace industry, composites are made of nonmetallic fibers -- carbon, fiberglass or aramid -- embedded in a resin of plastic or epoxy that is molded and then cured in autoclaves at high temperatures. 
 A material like carbon fiber, for example, is stronger and stiffer than aluminum, titanium or even steel, but its relative weight per volume is half that of aluminum and one-fifth the weight of steel.
 For airlines, the recent advances in composite technology could not come at a better time. ''Our carbon footprint is growing, and that is not politically acceptable,'' Giovanni Bisignani, chief executive of the International Air Transport Association, said this month at a meeting of executives representing 260 of the world's airlines. ''Climate change will limit our future unless we change our approach.''
 While the airline industry says it accounts for just 2 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions, steady economic growth and increasing demand for air travel are expected to raise aviation's contribution to 3 percent of worldwide carbon dioxide emissions by 2050.
 Rising oil prices, meanwhile, are cutting into airline profits, pushing carriers to demand better performance and longer range from the new planes they buy. According to the air transport association, aircraft fuel efficiency has increased by an average of 2.5 percent a year since 2003, saving the industry about $2 billion a year. But the industry expects its fuel bill to rise by $8 billion, to $119 billion, this year, representing 26 percent of operating costs. 
 ''The biggest thing about composites is that it gets fuel costs down,'' said Howard Wheeldon, an aviation industry strategist at BGC Partners in London.
 Boeing's 787, which is to enter commercial service next year, has an all-composite fuselage and wing. Boeing says the plane, which can seat 210 to 330 passengers, will burn about 20 percent less fuel than existing jets of its size. Airbus says its slightly larger A350, which is still in the design phase and not expected to enter service until 2013, will be made of 52 percent composites and achieve comparable levels of fuel efficiency.
 But lighter planes do not just burn less fuel. Since airport landing fees are partly based on the weight of the aircraft, a lighter fleet can represent a significant cost savings to airlines. According to the air transport association, airlines and passengers pay at least $43.5 billion a year in airport landing fees and other taxes, equivalent to 11 percent of global airline revenue.
 Jet manufacturers say composites also resist fatigue and erosion better than metal, reducing maintenance costs because jet inspections do not need to be as frequent or extensive. 
 Jeanne Yu, an engineer who heads Boeing's environmental performance group, said maintenance intervals for composite-built jets could be as much as twice as long as those for aluminum planes, although regulators will probably await proof of manufacturers' claims before approving significant changes to current inspection regimes. 
 After the crash of an American Airlines Airbus A300 in November 2001, when a composite tail fin broke off, some air safety experts called for stricter standards for inspecting and repairing composite components.
 Besides cutting fuel consumption, ''savings on maintenance is the main factor that makes composites attractive to airlines,'' said Scott Hamilton, an airline analyst based in Issaquah, Wash.
 For jet manufacturers, meanwhile, composites can simplify the production process because they allow for the creation of larger, more integrated parts. And since composite sections are cast into precise molds, they do not, like aluminum, have to be cut and shaped from sheets of bulk material, eliminating a lot of waste.
 There are also benefits for passengers. Because they are stronger and stiffer than aluminum, composites make it possible for airlines to increase the air pressure in the cabin significantly. Cabin air pressure in aluminum wide-body jets is typically equivalent to what a person would experience at an elevation of 8,000 feet above sea level, a factor that contributes to the fatigue that travelers experience on long-haul flights.
 Boeing says air pressure on the 787 will be the equivalent of an elevation of 6,000 feet, while Airbus plans to pressurize the A350 at 5,000 feet. Composites' resistance to corrosion also means that the relative humidity of the air inside the cabin can be higher than the 10 to 20 percent typical on today's planes -- an improvement for passengers because dry air is another source of discomfort.
 The technology of building airplanes has taken quantum leaps forward since Orville and Wilbur Wright's first biplane made of wood, wire and cloth lifted off at Kitty Hawk, N.C., in 1903. In the decades that followed, manufacturers have experimented, with varying levels of success, with everything from plywood to aluminum, titanium and other strong but lightweight metals.
 Boeing began using fiberglass in a limited way in the 1960s on its 747s. In the mid-1980s, two Boeing 737s were flying commercially with all-composite stabilizers on the tail. Boeing's use of these ultra-light materials has increased significantly in the last decade. Airbus, too, has stepped up its use of composites. 
 ''The trend is clearly toward more composite,'' Jeff Turner, the chief executive of Spirit AeroSystems, which builds carbon fiber and other composite components for Boeing and Airbus, told investors at a meeting in March. ''Whether it totally eclipses the metal airplane or not, I couldn't say.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Boeing 787 is made of large sections of composite material. The nose and front fuselage shown here are molded from a single piece. (Photo by Ed Turner/Boeing Company) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPOSITE MATERIALS (91%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PLASTICS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (70%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (91%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (56%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (52%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (91%); BAB (BRU) (91%); BA (NYSE) (91%); EAD (PAR) (56%); EAD (MCE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (91%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: LOUIS GALLOIS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



297 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BASIC INSTINCTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: It Might Pay To Follow Your Bliss

BYLINE: By M. P. DUNLEAVEY. 
M. P. Dunleavey is the author of ''Money Can Buy Happiness'' (Broadway Books, 2007).

 BODY:
REMEMBER the fable about the ant and the grasshopper? The ant works hard all summer, socking away provisions for the winter; the grasshopper frolics away each day. The ant warns the grasshopper that he's being hedonistic and short-sighted. The grasshopper ignores the ant, and continues on his merry way -- only to perish when winter sets in.
 It's a rather stern lesson about financial prudence, but there is a reason this tale has survived through the ages -- and still preoccupies many researchers who study the eccentricities of human economic behavior. Why do the grasshoppers of the world have such a hard time emulating the ants? 
The rewards of the ant's strategy are obvious: by working hard, planning ahead and saving your resources, you end up healthy, wealthy and warm. The pleasures of the grasshopper's life are short-lived -- and ultimately lead to great stress and suffering (if not a dire end).
 Yet economic research has demonstrated that most people find it hard to resist the siren song of ''seize the day and spend what you have now'' -- even though a lifestyle based on constant consumption doesn't enhance anyone's long-term store of happiness and often puts people on shaky financial ground.
 This conundrum also bedevils those who work in the field of personal finance. Why do millions of Americans resist saving for their retirements? Why do so many carry thousands of dollars in credit card debt? 
 The standard advice for those caught on the treadmill of ''getting and spending'' could come straight from the mouth of the ant: material kicks don't pay off in the end, so mend your ways, plan ahead and financial prudence eventually will be its own reward. But this sort of finger-wagging makes few converts in the grasshopper world. 
 A more compelling approach may be to focus more on what makes you happier -- because investing in your own well-being and quality of life may turn out to be more prudent and more profitable than you thought.
 Tim Kasser, an associate professor of psychology at Knox College in Galesburg, Ill., studied 200 people who embraced Voluntary Simplicity, a movement focused ''less on materialistic values -- like wanting money and possessions and status -- and more on what we called intrinsic values or goals,'' Professor Kasser said. The three main intrinsic values were being connected to family and friends, exploring one's interests or skills and ''making the world a better place,'' he said. 
 He conducted the study in 2005 with Kirk Brown, an assistant professor of psychology at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond. The researchers compared the attitudes and behaviors of this group with a matched sample of 200 mainstream Americans.
 Although the mainstream group's income was much higher, an average of about $41,000 a year compared with $26,000 for those aiming to live more simply, ''we found the people in the Voluntary Simplicity group were much happier and more satisfied with life,'' Professor Kasser said.
 THAT doesn't mean frugal people are happier, said Professor Kasser, adding that research findings on this topic are mixed. But the study found that when people invested more in intrinsic values, like relationships and quality of life, and less in consumption, it seemed to increase their happiness. And, the study suggested, there may be a financial gain to doing so. Those in the simplicity group were far more likely than the control group to say that they were careful about their spending, Professor Kasser said.
 Christopher K. Hsee, a professor of behavioral science at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, has observed a similar pattern. He points out that when people use their purchases as a semaphore of status, there is ''no natural stopping point;'' there will always be a bigger house, a fancier car, a more expensive watch to go after. 
 When it comes to more basic needs, like food or sleep or friendship, most people naturally reach a point of satisfaction. ''Consequently, people who value these types of goods may be financially better off,'' Professor Hsee said.
 As someone who struggles against her own grasshopper nature, wishing she had the foresight and impulse control of the ant, I like the idea that there's another path to fiscal prudence. Working hard and being practical are ideal skills to have in life, but if those aren't your bag, investing in a happier way of life may offer the same financial dividend. Too bad the ant didn't know about that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (75%); SIMPLE LIVING (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (50%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



298 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Cost of Food And Gasoline Rose Sharply Last Month

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Americans felt the pinch of higher gas prices and eroding wages last month, even as an important gauge of inflation drifted lower, government figures showed yesterday.
 Over all, the Consumer Price Index rose 0.7 percent in May, the Labor Department reported. The core rate, which excludes food and energy, was up just 0.1 percent, a welcome development that encourages the Federal Reserve to keep interest rates steady.
The news on the core rate, which has been inching steadily downward, cheered investors, who continued a stock rally that started midweek. [Page C6.] 
 But for consumers, the news was hardly reassuring. Prices for staple household purchases like gasoline and food rose to even higher levels last month, effectively causing most Americans to take a pay cut. After taking inflation into account, the average weekly earnings for workers in nonmanagement jobs -- some 80 percent of the work force -- fell for the second consecutive month in May.
 Consumer sentiment readings are reflecting some of that unease. A closely watched survey by the University of Michigan released yesterday found that consumer confidence this month dropped to the lowest level in 10 months. Americans also now expect significantly higher inflation than they expected a few months ago, the survey said.
 Wall Street viewed the diminishing core rate of inflation as something that would put central bankers at ease. Core inflation, which economists and Federal Reserve officials consider a better measure of underlying price pressures because it excludes volatile food and energy prices, rose at a slower annual pace for the third consecutive month.
 What Wall Street sees as good news, however, is not always good news for the average working American.
 ''Everybody has to eat, and everybody has to drive to work,'' said Mark Vitner, senior economist for Wachovia. ''For households, the headline number truly is the more important number, and clearly the run-up in gasoline prices in the last few months has left consumers with less money to spend on everything else.''
 ''I guess we need to walk to work and bring a brown bag lunch,'' he added.
 Gas prices jumped 10.5 percent last month, compared with an increase of 4.7 percent in April. Food prices rose 0.3 percent but are up sharply so far this year. 
 Beef prices have risen 5.1 percent, poultry prices 4.3 percent and pork prices 3.4 percent.
 But steady and falling prices for other goods held down core inflation to 2.2 percent for the last 12 months. In April, the annual rate was 2.3 percent, while the monthly rate was 0.2 percent. 
 Overall inflation increased 2.7 percent annualized in May, compared with 2.6 percent in April. On a monthly basis, it was 0.4 percent in April.
 Much of the reason for the ebbing in core inflation is housing costs, which are heavily weighted in the core calculation. They are rising more slowly than they were a year ago.
 Core inflation may be easing, but few economists think the Fed could seriously consider lowering interest rates this year. For one thing, economic growth is expected to pick up again the remainder of this year. Also, it is still unclear whether rising energy prices will seep into other prices and push inflation higher.
 But at the very least, the lower inflation readings lately could help convince Fed officials that interest rates do not need to go higher. The possibility they could be pressed to increase rates sent shivers through the stock market last week.
 The downward trend of core inflation could also allow the Fed to change the language in its statement after policy makers meet, typically a precursor to a rate cut. In its statements so far, the central bank has held firm to its view that inflation is the biggest threat to the economy.
 Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist with High Frequency Economics, said in a research report yesterday that the recent trajectory of inflation raises ''the question of just how long the Fed can credibly continue to argue that there is upside inflation risk.''
 But the Fed is known to move at a glacial pace when it comes to any shift in tenor.
 ''It's too early to say that inflation isn't an issue,'' said James Knightley, senior economist with ING Wholesale Banking. Like other economists who examined the numbers yesterday, Mr. Knightley noted that the 0.1 percent core inflation figure for May was rounded down from 0.149 -- a negligible difference from April's 0.177 percent.
 Because energy prices remain volatile, it is to the Fed's benefit to keep talking tough on inflation to prevent any spillover into the rest of the economy.
 ''Retailers are discounting to prevent losing customers who are struggling to pay their gasoline bills,'' said Christopher Low, chief economist with FTN Financial. 
 ''When energy prices are rising, other prices tend to rise less. When energy prices fall back, other prices will sort of regain some. Because of that, there's inevitably always something for Fed officials to worry about.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Keira O'Keefe, 2, snacked yesterday in a grocery store in Danvers, Mass. Food prices rose 0.3 percent in May and are up sharply this year. (Photo by Lisa Poole/Associated Press)(pg. C4) Chart: ''Industrial Production'' Index of total industrial production, 1997 = 100, seasonally adjusted. May: -0.1% April: +0.4 March: -0.3 (Source by Federal Reserve)(pg. C4) Chart: ''Capacity Utilization'' Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted. Operating Rates May: 81.8% April: 81.9 March: 81.6 (Source by Federal Reserve)(pg. C4) Chart: ''Consumer Prices'' Percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted. Graph tracks percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted, since 2006. U.S. and Major Metropolitan Areas Not seasonally adjusted Percent change from previous: U.S. MONTH: +0.6 YEAR: +2.7 New York MONTH: +0.6 YEAR: +2.5 Los Angeles MONTH: +0.3 YEAR: +3.5 Chicago MONTH: +0.8 YEAR: +3.2 Boston* MONTH: -0.1 YEAR: +1.5 Dallas* MONTH: +0.6 YEAR: +1.6 Detroit*(April) MONTH: +1.2 YEAR: +1.6 Houston*(April) MONTH: +1.6 YEAR: +1.6 Philadelphia*(April) MONTH: +1.0 YEAR: +1.7 San Francisco*(April) MONTH: +1.0 YEAR: +3.3 Washington*(March) MONTH: +0.8 YEAR: +3.2 *Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for May, except as noted. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); FOOD PRICES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BEEF (73%); PORK (73%); POULTRY (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



299 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Slashing and Warming

 BODY:
Buried in the final communique issued at the recent Group of 8 summit in Germany was an important and overdue pledge to help poorer nations reduce the global warming emissions caused by the slashing and burning of their tropical forests. 
 One of the glaring weaknesses in the 1997 Kyoto Accord was its failure to address deforestation, which now amounts to an astonishing 50 million acres a year. Because it releases huge quantities of carbon stored in trees, deforestation contributes at least 20 percent of all carbon emissions, quite apart from the toll it takes on plant and animal life and biodiversity generally. That's more carbon dioxide than all of the world's cars and trucks produce.
 A collective effort to bring deforestation under control, and to plant new trees in areas already laid bare by the chain saw, could substantially reduce these emissions. It would also provide developing countries with outside revenue and draw them into the broader fight against climate change.
 The industrialized world now needs to follow up its pledge with hard cash. Several big environmental organizations -- including Conservation International, The Nature Conservancy and the World Wildlife Fund -- have already embarked on privately funded efforts to protect forest land. But there is no substitute for collective government action, and on this score other rich nations are well ahead of the United States.
 Australia recently announced a commitment of $200 million to forest preservation efforts worldwide. The Europeans have agreed to put $150 million into a World Bank facility aimed at strengthening the ability of poorer countries to manage forests and prevent illegal logging. The governments that demonstrate management strengths are likely to attract foreign investors eager to satisfy their own obligations to reduce emissions by helping others do so. 
 Regrettably, the United States seems headed in the opposite direction. President Bush's foreign aid budget proposes a one-third cut in funding for the Congo Basin Forest Partnership. Comparable cuts are targeted for a program that helps Madagascar's struggling population protect its tropical forests. This is embarrassing, to say the least. As the world's richest nation -- and also the biggest emitter of greenhouse gases -- the United States should be leading this parade, not bringing up the rear. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFORESTATION (91%); EMISSIONS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); WILDLIFE (77%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); PLANT CONSERVATION (77%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (77%); BIODIVERSITY (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ANIMALS (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ILLEGAL LOGGING (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (55%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); MADAGASCAR (79%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



300 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Flip Side Of the Dream

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J. 

 BODY:
Emmanuel Wayne pressed his back against the shabby, one-story building, trying unsuccessfully to escape the downpour. The blue-and-white sign overhead said Bill's Liquors.
 I was standing there with him. The water pouring down the teenager's face created a funhouse mirror effect, making it look like he was laughing and crying at the same time. It was an absurd place to conduct an interview, but a lot of things about the inner-city are absurd.
''I been looking for a job,'' he said, ''but you know .'' He shrugged. ''I went to the McDonald's. I was up to the Cherry Hill Mall. Ain't too much out here.'' 
 It was a gloomy late afternoon. Throughout the rundown neighborhood, young people were gathered in clusters on porches, looking out at the rain. I talked to some and they told the same story as Emmanuel. No jobs. No money.
 ''That's why people go on the hustle,'' said one young man. ''Got to get the money somewhere.''
 The summer job outlook for teenagers is beyond bleak. A modest 157,000 jobs were added to the nation's payrolls in May. But teen employment fell for the fifth consecutive month, an ominous trend as we head into the summer months when millions of additional teenagers join in the hunt for jobs.
 From January through May, according to the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston, ''the national teen employment rate averaged only 33.1 percent, tying for the lowest employment rate in the past 60 years.''
 For youngsters like Emmanuel Wayne and others in this distressed city just a stone's throw from Philadelphia, the problem is much worse. Last summer, the employment rate for black teens from low-income families was an abysmal 18 percent.
 This is the flip side of the American dream. Kids who grow up poor and never work at a regular job tend not to think in terms of postgraduate degrees, marriages and honeymoons, careers and the cost of educating the next generation.
 A steady job could make all the difference. Along with the paycheck comes a sense of the possibilities. Kids develop a clearer understanding of the value of education and are more likely to stay in school. The heightened sense of self-worth that comes from gainful employment can be a bulwark against negative peer pressure. Contacts are made and a work history established.
 ''The more you work today, the more you're going to work tomorrow,'' said Andrew Sum, director of the Center for Labor Market Studies. ''And the more you work while you're in school, the easier it is to transition to the labor market when you graduate.''
 It seems obvious that we should be putting as many young people to work as possible, but the opposite is happening. The youth labor market in the U.S. has all but collapsed. Teens were especially hard hit by the recession that followed the employment boom of the late 1990s, and there has been no substantial recovery in the teen job market since then.
 Years ago the federal government played a major role in bolstering job opportunities for teenagers. There was substantial bipartisan support for both year-round and summer employment programs. But that important commitment vanished with the conservative onslaught of recent years.
 The result was inevitable. As the center has reported, ''Far fewer youth across the nation are gaining exposure to the job market and to the real world of work than in the late 1980s and 1990s.''
 What you are left with are frustrated youngsters, full of energy but lacking appropriate outlets, who have trouble figuring out what to do with themselves. It's an environment that is all but guaranteed to spawn bad choices.
 I asked Emmanuel what he might do if he couldn't find a job for the summer.
 ''Don't know,'' he said. ''I got a buddy doing this and that. He could help me out.''
 The rain had eased up and Emmanuel was off. A man named Darnell, who said he was 23, came out of the liquor store. He and I talked for awhile about the summer prospects for teens in the neighborhood.
 ''Well, there ain't no jobs in Camden,'' he said. ''Not for teenagers. If you can't get a job, you have to hustle. People be pushing weed. Cutting hair. Lifting stuff. The girls do their thing. It ain't no picnic out here. It's depressing.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); TRENDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SEASONAL WORKERS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); POOR POPULATION (73%); CITY LIFE (70%); FAMILY (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); CHILDREN (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



301 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 465 words

PERSON: Juanita Swedenburg 

HEADLINE: Juanita Swedenburg, 82; Won Suit on Wine Shipping

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

 BODY:
Juanita Swedenburg, a Virginia winery and vineyard owner who in 2005 won a battle in the United States Supreme Court to tear down protectionist barriers that kept wineries from shipping directly to consumers in other states, died June 9 at her home in Middleburg, Va. She was 82. 
 The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said.
 On May 16, 2005, in a 5-to-4 vote on an action brought by Mrs. Swedenburg and others, the Supreme Court overturned laws in New York and Michigan that discriminated against out-of-state wineries that wanted to ship directly to consumers' homes. 
 Both states permitted in-state wineries to ship in state. Michigan had banned all shipments from out-of-state wineries; New York allowed them if the wineries had offices in New York. None ever did, and Mrs. Swedenburg's lawsuit argued that, even if they did, the requirement would amount to a direct prohibition. 
 The court's decision resolved a longstanding conflict between a state's right to regulate the sale and use of wines and liquors, as outlined in the 21st Amendment to the Constitution, which ended Prohibition, and the Constitution's commerce clause, which limits a state's ability to erect economic barriers against goods shipped from beyond its borders. 
 In his majority opinion, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said New York and Michigan were engaging in the kind of protectionism the commerce clause forbids. 
 Mrs. Swedenburg and her husband, Wayne, both former United States Foreign Service officers, bought a farm in Middleburg in 1976 and opened Swedenburg Estate Vineyard in 1988, a tiny operation that produces about 2,500 cases a year. 
 In her Foreign Service years, Mrs. Swedenburg developed a taste for European wines made from vinifera grapes like chardonnay and cabernet sauvignon, varieties she cultivated in her vineyard. She was a founder of the Vinifera Wine Growers Association in Alexandria, Va. 
 Apparently unimpressed by the powerful liquor industry forces aligned against her, Mrs. Swedenburg enlisted the Institute for Justice, a public interest law firm, to handle her case. In a statement after her death, Steve Simpson, a senior lawyer for the institute, said of Mrs. Swedenburg: ''Without Juanita urging us to challenge those absurd direct shipping laws, we might never have brought the case.'' 
 Juanita Nutt was born in Springfield, Ill. She graduated from Normal State Teachers College and taught high school English and French before joining the Foreign Service in 1952. Her first posting was to Saigon, now Ho Chi Minh City, in Vietnam, where she met her future husband. She later served elsewhere in Southeast Asia and Africa. Mr. Swedenburg died in 2004. 
 Her survivors include a son, Marc; a granddaughter; and a brother, Lawrence Nutt of Springfield, Ill. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (94%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (87%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (77%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); HEART DISEASE (57%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%)

ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIETNAM (92%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (75%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (70%); VIET NAM (65%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



302 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Japan Central Bank Chief Hints That Rates Won't Be Rising Soon

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 15 

 BODY:
The Bank of Japan decided Friday to keep a benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.5 percent and the central bank's governor hinted that a rate increase might come later than July, quashing speculation about an imminent move. 
 The comments by the Bank of Japan's governor, Toshihiko Fukui, helped lift the dollar to a 4 1/2-year high against the yen.
After the bank's two-day policy meeting, Mr. Fukui told reporters, ''As for the future rate hikes, we must watch more economic data to check whether the economy and prices move as we've expected.''
 Some analysts say that the bank may be under political pressure not to increase interest rates until after parliamentary elections scheduled for July, but that the bank may take action once the elections are over.
 Mr. Fukui's comments damped that speculation.
 The dollar rose to 123.38 yen in Tokyo, up from 123.12 yen late Thursday in New York.
 The bank maintained its upbeat assessment of the economy in a monthly report, saying that production, exports and consumer spending were improving.
 Figures released this week showed that the economy grew at an annual pace of 3.3 percent for the January-through-March quarter, up from an earlier estimate of 2.4 percent. The unemployment rate has also declined, to 3.8 percent in April, the lowest level in nine years.
 Consumer prices, however, have fallen in the last three months, raising concerns that Japan might be slipping back into deflation.
 The bank last changed the benchmark interest rate in February, doubling it from 0.25 percent. That was the first rise since July 2006, when the bank ended five years of keeping interest rates near zero, an unusual policy to try to bring Japan's economy out of a decade of stagnation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



303 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
 Rugged Course Shakes Up the Leader Board Phil Mickelson, standing at left, stuck in the rough at Oakmont Country Club, missed the cut yesterday at the United States Open. Angel Cabrera, who has never won a PGA Tour event, was the leader after two rounds. PAGE D1 Brutal Work at China's Kilns News reports of forced labor at a northern province's brick kilns have swept China in an unfolding scandal that involves the kidnapping of hundreds of children. 
 PAGE A3 The Great Wide Classroom Eighth graders from Newark, whose playground is a paved courtyard, spend three days at a Catskill camp in a last hurrah before high school. PAGE B1 The Luckiest People Barbra Streisand is touring Europe with New York freelance musicians, who get a plum job. And the tour is also good news for musicians left behind. THE ARTS, PAGE B7 Groups Rallied to Revive Immigration Legislation After a comprehensive immigration bill was pulled from the Senate floor, advocates rallied behind it. Within 24 hours, the Roman Catholic Church and many business, labor and Hispanic groups were urging the Senate to resurrect it. While they had all complained about various provisions of the measure, they did not want it to die. PAGE A9 Gas Prices Up; Wages Down Americans faced higher gas prices and eroding wages last month, even as an important gauge of inflation drifted lower, a government report said. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1 Mets Beat Yanks and Clemens Roger Clemens pitched well, but Oliver Perez was even better last night as the Mets defeated the Yankees, 2-0. SPORTSSATURDAY, PAGE D1 THIS WEEKEND Killing Pain or Selling Drugs? Pain is hard to measure, and those who treat it have to make subjective decisions about dosage levels. When a doctor gets it wrong, is it a mistake or a felony? MAGAZINE Not in My Front Yard On West 15th Street, a new condo with a terrace over the building next door is drawing fire. REAL ESTATE

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Lisa Kyle/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOLF (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); FELONIES (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (68%); IMMIGRATION (68%); RELIGION (67%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); CONDOMINIUMS (62%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (54%)

PERSON: PHIL MICKELSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



304 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGY ON IRAN STIRS NEW DEBATE AT WHITE HOUSE

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15 

 BODY:
A year after President Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice announced a new strategy toward Iran, a behind-the-scenes debate has broken out within the administration over whether the approach has any hope of reining in Iran's nuclear program, according to senior administration officials.
 The debate has pitted Ms. Rice and her deputies, who appear to be winning so far, against the few remaining hawks inside the administration, especially those in Vice President Dick Cheney's office who, according to some people familiar with the discussions, are pressing for greater consideration of military strikes against Iranian nuclear facilities.
In the year since Ms. Rice announced the new strategy for the United States to join forces with Europe, Russia and China to press Iran to suspend its uranium enrichment activities, Iran has installed more than a thousand centrifuges to enrich uranium. The International Atomic Energy Agency predicts that 8,000 or so could be spinning by the end of the year, if Iran surmounts its technical problems. 
 Those hard numbers are at the core of the debate within the administration over whether Mr. Bush should warn Iran's leaders that he will not allow them to get beyond some yet-undefined milestones, leaving the implication that a military strike on the country's facilities is still an option. 
 Even beyond its nuclear program, Iran is emerging as an increasing source of trouble for the Bush administration by inflaming the insurgencies in Iraq, Afghanistan, Lebanon and in Gaza, where it has provided military and financial support to the militant Islamic group Hamas, which now controls the Gaza Strip.
 Even so, friends and associates of Ms. Rice who have talked with her recently say she has increasingly moved toward the European position that the diplomatic path she has laid out is the only real option for Mr. Bush, even though it has so far failed to deter Iran from enriching uranium, and that a military strike would be disastrous. 
 The accounts were provided by officials at the State Department, White House and the Pentagon who are on both sides of the debate, as well as people who have spoken with members of Mr. Cheney's staff and with Ms. Rice. The officials said they were willing to explain the thinking behind their positions, but would do so only on condition of anonymity. 
 Mr. Bush has publicly vowed that he would never ''tolerate'' a nuclear Iran, and the question at the core of the debate within the administration is when and whether it makes sense to shift course.
 The issue was raised at a closed-door White House meeting recently when the departing deputy national security adviser, J. D. Crouch, told senior officials that President Bush needed an assessment of how the stalemate over Iran's nuclear program was likely to play out over the next 18 months, said officials briefed on the meeting. 
 In response, R. Nicholas Burns, an under secretary of state who is the chief American strategist on Iran, told the group that negotiations with Tehran could still be going on when Mr. Bush leaves office in January 2009. The hawks in the room reported later that they were deeply unhappy -- but not surprised -- by Mr. Burns's assessment, which they interpreted as a tacit acknowledgment that the Bush administration had no ''red line'' beyond which Iran would not be permitted to step.
 But conservatives inside the administration have continued in private to press for a tougher line, making arguments that their allies outside government are voicing publicly. ''Regime change or the use of force are the only available options to prevent Iran from getting a nuclear weapons capability, if they want it,'' said John R. Bolton, the former United States ambassador to the United Nations. 
 Only a few weeks ago, one of Mr. Cheney's top aides, David Wurmser, told conservative research groups and consulting firms in Washington that Mr. Cheney believed that Ms. Rice's diplomatic strategy was failing, and that by next spring Mr. Bush might have to decide whether to take military action.
 The vice president's office has declined to talk about Mr. Wurmser's statements, and says Mr. Cheney is fully on board with the president's strategy. In a June 1 article for Commentary magazine, the neoconservative editor Norman Podhoretz laid out what a headline described as ''The Case for Bombing Iran.''
 ''In short, the plain and brutal truth is that if Iran is to be prevented from developing a nuclear arsenal, there is no alternative to the actual use of military force -- any more than there was an alternative to force if Hitler was to be stopped in 1938,'' Mr. Podhoretz wrote.
 Mr. Burns and officials from the Treasury Department have been trying to use the mounting conservative calls for a military strike to press Europe and Russia to expand economic sanctions against Iran. Just last week, Israel's transportation minister and former defense minister, Shaul Mofaz, visited Washington and told Ms. Rice that sanctions must be strong enough to get the Iranians to stop enriching uranium by the end of 2007. 
 While Mr. Mofaz did not threaten a military strike, Israeli officials said he told Ms. Rice that by the end of the year, Israel ''would have to reassess where we are.''
 The State Department and Treasury officials are pushing for a stronger set of United Nations Security Council sanctions against members of Iran's government, including an extensive travel ban and further moves to restrict the ability of Iran's financial institutions to do business outside of Iran. Beyond that, American officials have been trying to get European and Asian banks to take additional steps, outside of the Security Council, against Iran. 
 ''We're saying to them, 'Look, you need to help us make the diplomacy succeed, and you guys need to stop business as usual with Iran,' '' an administration official said. ''We're not just sitting here ignoring reality.''
 But the fallout from the Iraq war has severely limited the Bush administration's ability to maneuver on the Iran nuclear issue and has left many in the administration, and certainly America's allies and critics in Europe, firmly against military strikes on Iran. On Thursday, Mohamed ElBaradei, the head of the international nuclear watchdog agency, warned anew that military action against Iran would ''be an act of madness.''
 The debate over ''red lines'' is a familiar one inside the Bush White House that last arose in 2002 over North Korea. When the North Koreans threw out international inspectors on the last day of that year and soon declared that they planned to reprocess 8,000 rods of spent fuel into weapons-grade plutonium, President Bush had to decide whether to declare that if North Korea moved toward weapons, it could face a military strike on its facilities.
 The Pentagon had drawn up an extensive plan for taking out those facilities, though with little enthusiasm, because it feared it could not control North Korea's response, and the administration chose not to delivery any ultimatum. North Korea tested a nuclear weapon last October, and American intelligence officials estimate it now has the fuel for eight or more weapons.
 Iran is far behind the North Koreans; it is believed to be three to eight years away from its first weapon, American intelligence officials have told Congress. Conservatives argue that if the administration fails to establish a line over which Iran must not step, the enrichment of uranium will go ahead, eventually giving the Iranians fuel that, with additional enrichment out of the sight of inspectors, it could use for weapons. 
 To date, however, the administration has been hesitant about saying that it will not permit Iran to produce more than a given amount of fuel, out of concern that Iran's hard-liners would simply see that figure as a goal.
 In the year since the United States made its last offer to Iran, the Iranians have gone from having a few dozen centrifuges in operation to building a facility that at last count, a month ago, had more than 1,300. ''The pace of negotiations have lagged behind the pace of the Iranian nuclear program,'' said Robert Joseph, the former under secretary of state for international security, who left his post partly over his opposition to the administration's recent deal with North Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); CENTRIFUGES (73%); HAMAS (69%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (91%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



305 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1152 words

PERSON: Andres Izarra 

HEADLINE: Building a TV Station and a Platform for Leftists

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
AT the headquarters here of Telesur, the regional Spanish-language network financed largely by Venezuela's government, an anchor reads a bulletin describing a meeting of landless peasants in Brazil. Producers receive a report from Bolivia on a meeting of Andean leaders. On a talk show, intellectuals discuss trends in Caribbean cinema. An advertisement celebrates the broadcast of a documentary on the life of Che Guevara.
 Less than two years old, Telesur is seen as this hemisphere's answer to Al Jazeera, a Latin American network aimed at fostering integration and countering the influence of news organizations like CNN. The man guiding this experiment is Andres Izarra, a rising star of President Hugo Chavez's ambitious project to upend elites in Venezuela and elsewhere in the region.
Mr. Izarra, 38, was a news director at RCTV, the network recently taken off the air in the government's move not to renew its license, until he quit during the 2002 coup against Mr. Chavez, complaining of pro-coup coverage. 
 Since then, he ascended quickly through the highest ranks of government, becoming Mr. Chavez's communications minister and now president of Telesur, a project at the forefront of Mr. Chavez's efforts to assert greater state control of the news media.
 While protests have convulsed Venezuela in recent weeks over Mr. Chavez's move against RCTV, Mr. Izarra has emerged as a passionate defender of the decision.
 ''RCTV practiced a form of media terrorism,'' Mr. Izarra said in an interview. ''The families that own RCTV hate my guts for saying that, but the oligarchy that once controlled Venezuela is finally coming apart.''
 While the old oligarchy is undone, a new political elite is emerging in Venezuela, comprised of officials who support Mr. Chavez as a foil to the United States government and, not incidentally, have benefited from the changing order.
 His critics call Mr. Izarra an apparatchik, someone who has defended Mr. Chavez's media policies for personal gain, a charge he denies. Mr. Izarra said he admired the president's capacity to stand up to the United States policies of ''sabotage and containment.''
 Hastily eating take-out sushi at his desk here, Mr. Izarra said he and his wife could no longer comfortably dine in restaurants. ''I become the subject of verbal abuse when I go into a public place,'' he said, explaining how walking around Las Mercedes, the chic district where he lives, had become difficult.
 DESPITE projecting an intensely partisan personal image, Mr. Izarra says he is tolerant of different opinions in his family or in Telesur's studios. He said 120 of Telesur's 400 employees were opponents of Mr. Chavez, acknowledging that he kept tabs by using lists of voters and their political sympathies, available here on pirated software.
 He says he never dreamed of working in a profession that did not revolve around a newsroom. But his departure from RCTV in 2002 led him into other worlds. Cast into the wilderness as far as privately owned media here were concerned, he first returned to CNN as a field producer during a general strike that paralyzed the economy in 2002 and 2003.
 ''Andres was far from being a Chavista when I met him,'' said Lucia Newman, who was Mr. Izarra's boss as a senior Latin America correspondent for CNN.
 ''But he found himself in a position in which he had to choose sides,'' said Ms. Newman, who now covers Latin America for Al Jazeera International, describing Mr. Izarra's trajectory after his work for her. ''In a general sense, I think he's now a true believer.''
 Mr. Izarra crossed into politics definitively when he took a job in media relations for the Venezuelan Embassy in Washington after his stint in Caracas for CNN. Then, at the age of 35, he was given charge of Mr. Chavez's personal television show and a growing portfolio of other responsibilities.
 ''The pace of working alongside Chavez isn't easy for anyone,'' said Jose Roberto Duque, a writer and journalist who was hired by Mr. Izarra to help retool Venezuela's state news agency by drawing inspiration from Cuba's Prensa Libre and Spain's Agencia EFE. ''He matured immensely, and intensely, during that time.''
 Mr. Izarra started in journalism while living in France after he left university studies here in economics, writing for a magazine published by his uncle, who was jailed in Venezuela in the 1970s for leftist political activities.
 His father, William Izarra, a retired air force officer and a political scientist, is one of the chief theorists of Mr. Chavez's political movement.
 STILL, Mr. Izarra seems an unlikely Chavista. He had a privileged upbringing, attending Santiago de Leon, an elite school in Caracas. He speaks flawless English, having also attended public schools in Newton, Mass., while his parents did graduate work at Harvard. He spent nearly five years working in the United States at CNN and NBC before returning to Venezuela.
 Now he is in the middle of the debate over the closing of RCTV, even as Telesur plans to expand into Europe, Brazil and perhaps the United States, using Internet-based broadcasting technology. The network, which has more than 10 bureaus overseas, including Cuba, Nicaragua and Haiti, is opening two more in London and Madrid.
 Last year Telesur and Al Jazeera announced a content-sharing agreement, which was derided by Connie Mack, a Republican congressman from Florida, as ''creating a global television network for terrorists.''
 Such statements, Mr. Izarra said, have only given Telesur greater legitimacy among its viewers. Compared with the Venezuelan government's main television network, which ruthlessly disparages Mr. Chavez's critics, Telesur's tilt left is more moderate. The network's mission, he said, is ''to advance integration while portraying Latin Americans as we see ourselves.''
 Cookie-cutter anchors are not part of this project. Instead, a ponytailed journalist with a 5 o'clock shadow discusses the news each morning. A diversity of accents from correspondents from around the region reflects the countries supporting Telesur, which include Argentina, Brazil, Cuba and Nicaragua.
 But this is Venezuela, where politics intrudes even into life's most intimate spaces. During his time as communications minister, Mr. Izarra met Isabel Gonzalez, a former anchor at Globovision, Venezuela's only remaining opposition television network.
 They married soon after Mr. Izarra was interviewed on her program and have a 1-year-old daughter. Mr. Izarra has a 14-year-old son from a previous marriage.
 His wife remains an outspoken critic of the government. So is his mother, Viviana Garcia, a retired university professor. And his wife's stepfather, Antonio Ledezma, heads an opposition political party.
 ''We do not discuss politics when the family gets together,'' Ms. Garcia said. ''Unfortunately, this is a situation common to many Venezuelan families at this time.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: ANDRES IZARRA (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); FARM LABOR (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TRENDS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); FAMILY (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (68%); TERRORISM (50%)

HUGO CHAVEZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); BRAZIL (92%); BOLIVIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



306 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Arizona-Mexico Discussion Focuses on Border Violence

BYLINE: By RANDAL ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: TUCSON, June 15 

 BODY:
For more than 50 years the governments of Arizona and its Mexican neighboring state, Sonora, have gathered regularly to strike agreements, pledge cooperation and bask in border bonhomie.
 But meeting here over two days, as border violence and drug trafficking have swelled and the United States Senate considers the most significant changes to immigration law in 20 years, a deep sense of urgency, even anxiety, hung over the proceedings.
While describing cooperation between the two states as good, Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, a Democrat, said she remained concerned about an increase in drug seizures along the border and the recent spate of violence. 
 Most alarming, Ms. Napolitano said, was a firefight last month among rival drug cartels and the police in the Sonoran city of Cananea, about 100 miles south of here. Nearly two dozen people were killed.
 Such episodes are more typical in border cities near Texas. Although the violence has not usually crossed into the United States, Ms. Napolitano said in an interview, ''you don't want to run that risk, either.''
 ''I hope it is an anomaly,'' she said, ''but I think if it is our goal to have the safest part of the U.S.-Mexican border, then you can't presume that it's an anomaly.'' 
 Law enforcement officials have said weapons used in the fighting have come from the United States.
 Daniel Duran Puente, a spokesman for Eduardo Bours, the Sonora governor, said while ''we hope it won't happen again,'' it was ''a sign of what has been happening in the whole country.''
 He said Sonora had been cracking down on organized crime groups but was seeking more cooperation from the Mexican government on drug trafficking intelligence to thwart violence.
 At the summer meeting of the Arizona-Mexico Commission, there was the usual signing of agreements between two states that figure prominently in any discussion of the border -- Sonora as the principal staging ground for illegal crossers and Arizona as the state that receives more of them than any other.
 To crack down on the financial network that supports human smuggling, Arizona will train Sonora detectives to investigate wire transfers that may be directed to guides, known as coyotes, that bring people over the border. Arizona officials have claimed success in seizing wire transfers suspected of being used to pay smugglers in their state, but they now believe the money is flowing to Sonora to avoid their efforts.
 The two governments also signed agreements to improve radio communication among local, state and federal law enforcement agencies and to more closely track stolen vehicles used in drug and human smuggling on both sides of the border.
 Ms. Napolitano also met privately with officials from the Drug Enforcement Agency and the Border Patrol, which has been reporting an increase in drug seizures, principally marijuana, in the past year along the Arizona border.
 Since October, the Border Patrol has seized 648,000 pounds of marijuana, a 71 percent increase over the previous year, in the Tucson sector, which includes most of the Arizona border. Over the same period, arrests of illegal crossers dropped 10 percent, to 270,000 people.
 Border Patrol officials have attributed both trends to the presence of thousands of National Guard troops who arrived last summer, deterring crossers while freeing up agents to make drug arrests. But they have said there are also indications that shifting drug trafficking patterns and a bumper marijuana crop on the Mexican side may be contributing to the increase.
 Whatever the reason, Ms. Napolitano said the trends demonstrated a need for more federal drug agents at the border. She said she and Mr. Bours would also continue to address the problems locally.
 ''What we did was decide as governors we could not wait all the time and say it is only a federal responsibility to respond,'' she said, listing various task forces and agreements the states have reached in recent years.
 Ms. Napolitano has also been advocating for the comprehensive immigration bill in the Senate.
 She said President Bush's promise of $4 billion in additional money for border security ''will help get Republican votes'' for the measure. Ms. Napolitano had backed the ''grand bargain'' version of the bill that was pulled from the Senate floor last week, and she said she would probably support a new version of the bill.
 ''I haven't seen what they've changed,'' she said.
 Whatever the outcome, Ms. Napolitano said Arizona and its border neighbor would continue to forge cultural and economic ties, something the twice-yearly meeting seeks to celebrate and advance. The next meeting is in Sonora in the fall.
 ''There is an ongoing relationship that happens even in the midst of an immigration meltdown,'' Ms. Napolitano said. ''I think it's reflective of the fact borders don't need to be -- how do I say this? -- that there are challenges but also opportunities.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona and Eduardo Boors, governor of Sonora, Mexico, met over two days to discuss problems at the border. (Photo by Jeff Topping for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CARTELS (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); CANNABIS (72%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); WIRE TRANSFERS (64%); VEHICLE THEFT (63%)

PERSON: JANET NAPOLITANO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (95%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



307 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Specialist in Tough (to) Love

BYLINE: By SUSAN STEWART

 BODY:
Hype and hokiness aside, some reality shows are appealing because they seem real. Buffalo is the setting for ''Confessions of a Matchmaker,'' tonight on A&E. Nobody will confuse that town with Hollywood, Manhattan or the castle on ''The Bachelor.'' Establishing shots show us a gritty, snowy industrial city in the unforgiving north, with a heroine to match.
 Patti Novak, who runs a dating service within spitting distance of Niagara Falls, is a fine representative of Buffalo and a fine character for the reality genre. She's plainspoken but not rude, a classic dispenser of tough love. When Charlie, her first customer comes in, she sizes him up pretty quickly. 
 ''You've made a choice between doughnuts and sex,'' she says.
 ''Life takes its toll,'' Charlie responds with a shrug. He's a former Mr. Nude Universe, but those glory days are long gone. Charlie now weighs 346 pounds and was recently kicked out of an all-you-can-eat Chinese buffet. Still, there's hope.
 ''I see sensitivity and a great pair of blue eyes,'' Ms. Novak says. She takes him out for a test dinner and cringes as he slurps pasta: ''For God's sake, chew with your mouth closed.''
 Charlie learns his lesson better than another client, Ashley. A cocktail waitress, she refuses to give up her fake tan and layers of makeup. ''He might want to take you home and roll you over,'' Ms. Novak tells her, ''but I bet your bank account he won't want to take you home to Mother.'' 
 Some reality shows are predicated on cruelty, or at least a survival-of-the-fittest mentality. That ''American Idol'' seems increasingly to fit both those models may be why its ratings are slipping. Sometimes a little kindness is preferable to a freak show. Ms. Novak's clients are not weird enough to be laughable or pathetic enough to pity. They are people with whom a lot of us could identify, at least on a bad day. 
 A very bad day, in the case of John. At 41, he says he has never had sex. He blames it partly on the economy. Ms. Novak tells him to get real.
 ''It's not cute that you're a virgin at age 41,'' she says. ''It's a red flag the size of Texas.''
 It takes John two dates to figure out his problem. (The viewer may guess it sooner.) Over a shared plate of appetizers, dawn breaks. At least Ms. Novak, who is watching, detects ''chemistry.'' 
 Ms. Novak's criteria for success may be debatable. I know a lot of happily married couples who would probably fail her chemistry test, but her heart is in the right place. And heart, on a dating show, is what counts. Confessions of a Matchmaker A&E, tonight at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time. Created by Penny Benatovich and Patti Novak; Matthew Sharp and Smash Advertising, executive producers; Jerry Kolber, co-executive producer; Trey Nelson and Max Landes, directors; Bob Larson, executive in charge of production for Sharp Entertainment; Robert Sharenow and Colleen Conway, A&E executive producers; Josh Baron, editor. Produced by Sharp Entertainment for A&E Network. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patti Novak meets a potential client in ''Confessions of a Matchmaker.'' (Photo by Jeremy Cowart/A&E) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); DATING SERVICES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



308 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Streisand Tours, and New York Musicians Cheer

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
Thank you, Barbra.
 Barbra Streisand is touring Europe with a 58-piece orchestra composed mostly of the cream of New York's freelance musicians. It's a sweet gig for the players. But beyond that, the tour has created a mild economic boom for the pool of musicians left behind.
Many of the Streisand musicians are regulars in Broadway shows like ''The Lion King,'' ''Legally Blonde'' and ''The Color Purple,'' as well as in the American Ballet Theater Orchestra, the Brooklyn Philharmonic and the Westchester Philharmonic.
 With their absence, somebody has to substitute. And that means opportunities for others, especially younger musicians or players who have yet to crack the regular lists of contractors. 
 ''I was thrilled,'' Alison Zlotow, a violinist, said of having received a call to play with the Brooklyn Philharmonic tonight. ''As a diverse freelancer, this is just the golden opportunity for me. I love playing with a symphony, and it's really hard to get symphony jobs.''
 Ms. Zlotow is one of several substitute violinists for Saturday's performance. At least two Brooklyn violinists are off with Ms. Streisand.
 The job is also a financial break for musicians like Ms. Zlotow, 29, who graduated from the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston two years ago and was a finalist for a regular position with the Brooklyn Philharmonic. She cobbles a living together by playing at weddings, on church jobs and in concerts with the new-music group the International Contemporary Ensemble. She is also in the backup band for the Trans-Siberian Orchestra. 
 ''I'm making ends meet, barely,'' she said. ''But I am surviving.''
 Ms. Streisand's tour begins in Zurich on Monday. She moves on to Vienna, Paris, Berlin, Stockholm, Manchester, Dublin and London, where she gives her final tour performance on July 25. There are three to five days between each concert, just part of the cushy conditions that make this a plum assignment for the orchestra players, who left on Sunday. 
 Pay approaches $3,000 a week, rising to three times that for some principal players, said Michael Keller, the tour contractor. Travel and lodging are paid for, and the musicians receive a $65 per diem. (A weekly salary on Broadway can typically be around $1,500.) The audiences will be huge; the colleagues, expert; and the itinerary, a tourist's ideal.
 ''It's a dream tour,'' said Mr. Keller, who is also one of the main contractors for Broadway shows.
 A look at the Streisand effect, which is especially welcome as the size of Broadway orchestras has declined over recent years, sheds light on New York's freelance system, perhaps the most vibrant in the country, along with that of Los Angeles. 
 Shows rely on contractors to help fill musicians' chairs. Most are former or current players with a knack for organizing and making contacts. Music directors and orchestrators can also have a say in hiring for musicals. Permanent positions in part-time classical orchestras are often filled through auditions, but contractors organize substitutes and extra musicians when needed.
 Mr. Keller said he had a database of 2,500 names. He picks dependable, expert musicians whom he has hired in the past, he added, and often consults with principal players to fill out sections with members who can blend and get along musically and personally. 
 The Streisand orchestra consists mainly of personnel he hired for Ms. Streisand's American tour last fall. 
 ''Had another contactor been given the assignment, I dare say the makeup of the orchestra would have been substantially different,'' Mr. Keller said.
 Once in a show or orchestra, musicians often need subs. Most take on multiple jobs and teaching to make ends meet, and scheduling conflicts are common. In the summer many take off for festivals. Usually players find their own subs from a network of colleagues and acquaintances. 
 Michael Boschen and Keith O'Quinn are both busy freelance trombonists, friends and sometime section-mates. Mr. Boschen said Mr. O'Quinn had often called him to substitute. When Mr. O'Quinn was called away on the Streisand tour, he asked Mr. Boschen to fill in for performances of ''Legally Blonde.''
 ''I guess he must like my playing,'' Mr. Boschen said. ''My experience of subbing on Broadway is, there are a lot of different reasons people call you. Personally, I always hope it's about the playing first, and the personality second, and being professional and responsible as well.''
 Indeed, personality is often cited as a reason behind a contractor's choice, giving rise to charges of favoritism. Musicians seen as difficult may get fewer calls. Some suggest that union-minded players suffer.
 Subbing is also a chance to establish a reputation, which can lead to a permanent job. That is how Mr. Boschen said he had been offered a position in the orchestra of ''The Full Monty.'' He said he would have liked to do the Streisand tour but would have been torn. He had set aside time in June to be with his daughter, born on May 7. 
 He said he had tried to waste little time second-guessing why a contractor had chosen another trombonist over him. ''When I start to feel insecure about something,'' he said, ''I go practice.''
 For the tour Mr. Keller tapped many of the musicians in the pit orchestras he has put together. So nearly the entire violin section of ''Spamalot'' -- four players -- and a trombonist need to be replaced. ''Legally Blonde'' is sending two violinists, a trombonist and a French horn player. Other shows making their contribution to Ms. Streisand include ''The Drowsy Chaperone,'' ''Wicked,'' ''Avenue Q,'' ''Hairspray'' and ''The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee.''
 The American Ballet Theater orchestra lost a half-dozen of its regular substitutes to the tour, said Matt Dine, the principal oboist and contractor. They include two of his best mandolin players -- actually, violinists who double on the instrument -- just as the ballet is presenting ''Romeo and Juliet,'' which has key mandolin parts. 
 ''It is an opportunity to use people you wouldn't normally use as much, which is nice, and it's an opportunity to find new people,'' Mr. Dine said.
 Jon Taylor, the contractor for the Brooklyn Philharmonic and Westchester Philharmonic, said he had had a difficult time finding substitutes for both. ''Any number of them have said to me, 'Gee, I can't do that concert, I'm away with the Streisand tour,' '' he said. ''The good thing about New York is there are terrific players to replace them with.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Boschen is substituting for a trombonist in ''Legally Blonde.'' (Photo by Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times)(pg. B7)
Michael Keller, who hires musicians for Barbra Streisand's tour, with musicians on West 42nd Street. (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 Alison Zlotow will play with the Brooklyn Philharmonic tonight. (Photo by Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times)(pg. B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (95%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); THEATER (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); DANCE COMPANIES (71%); BALLET (70%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (65%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



309 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Government Financial Crisis May Claim Jerusalem Symphony

BYLINE: By DINA KRAFT

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, June 15 

 BODY:
On the eve of its 70th anniversary, sharp budget cuts threaten the existence of the Jerusalem Symphony Orchestra. 
 Created as a radio orchestra, much in the manner of the BBC Symphony, during the days of British rule, the Jerusalem operates on a modest budget of about $3.6 million a year. Its players, who perform some 40 programs annually, joke that it is one of the world's greatest low-budget orchestras.
This week the Israel Broadcasting Authority, the public agency that provides most of the orchestra's budget, said it would be cutting its financing of the Jerusalem Symphony by 60 percent, or to roughly $1 million from $2.6 million. If the cut goes through, orchestra officials said that the symphony would be forced to shut down. 
 Four years ago Leon Botstein, the president of Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., was brought on as the orchestra's music director and main conductor to help bring it out of debt. At the time Mr. Botstein refused a salary, and the players, many of them immigrants from the former Soviet Union, agreed to take a 20 percent pay cut. 
 Mr. Botstein also raised money for the symphony, which has been operating under a court-appointed receivership, in the United States. The orchestra, of some 80 musicians, has been planning an American tour of Chicago and cities on the West Coast later this year. 
 ''We've paid our debt, and here comes the Israeli politics of the Israel Broadcasting Authority, like an overweight person who decides to lose weight by having a haircut,'' Mr. Botstein said in a telephone interview from Budapest. 
 The Israeli government, citing inefficiency and overstaffing at the authority, has slashed the agency's budget by a total of some 40 percent over four years, said Moshe Gavish, the authority's chairman.
 But Yossi Tal-Gan, the orchestra's director general, said the decision would not solve the authority's own financial woes, since its support for the orchestra is less than 2 percent of the agency's total budget. 
 Mr. Gavish said the authority could no longer shoulder the cost of the orchestra. 
 ''We cannot pay for this when we cannot pay for all the other things we are responsible for paying,'' he said, adding that it was unclear if authority employees would be paid on time in July. 
 Mr. Gavish suggested that the city of Jerusalem and the culture ministry increase their own small contributions to the orchestra to offset the cuts. 
 Orchestra players and officials countered that the symphony was an easy target for budget cuts compared with powerful labor unions, which would battle over salaries. They said with some bitterness that with the Israeli economy thriving, it was sad that money could not be found to support one of the nation's founding cultural institutions. 
 The orchestra, which operates in the shadow of the more famous and established Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, sees itself as having two main roles: to play for the radio audience and to be a central force for culture in Jerusalem, an increasingly poor and religious city that has seen its base of secular cultural institutions begin to dwindle. 
 The orchestra differentiates itself from the Israel Philharmonic, which celebrated its 70th anniversary in 2006, by playing a more diverse and less traditional repertory. It has been a home for pieces by Israeli composers and lesser-known or more challenging modern works. 
 One of Mr. Botstein's innovations was to introduce a thematic approach to programs, with one of music written in the aftermath of World War II, for example, or another of music of the late 19th century inspired by Shakespeare. 
 On Wednesday and Thursday the orchestra is scheduled to play a program titled ''Music and the Macabre,'' including Aaron Copland's ''Grohg,'' about female vampires, and Bartok's ''Miraculous Mandarin'' (Op. 10), about a prostitute in league with robbers and the otherworldly man they lure to his death. 
 Marina Schwartz, a violinist in the orchestra who immigrated to Israel from St. Petersburg, Russia, in the early 1990s said there was a scrappy resourcefulness to the symphony that was part of its charm. ''There are problems all the time, and yet we keep fighting on,'' she said. ''This makes me proud.'' 
 Mr. Botstein pleads that the fate of the orchestra is linked with Israel's cultural future. ''We as a Jewish people always valued learning and culture,'' he insisted. ''In the end is all that is interesting to the state of Israel soccer? Is this the dream of the founders of the state?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (77%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



310 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1692 words

HEADLINE: Can a Vision Save All Of Africa?

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
It was ''Malaria in Africa Week'' here in New York. Not officially, of course. But by coincidence, two big malaria-related events took place that were by turns moving, inspiring and invigorating. 
 To attend one or both was to come away thinking that maybe the business community was finally getting serious about eradicating malaria, which kills more than a million people a year, most of them African children under the age of 5. But when you look more closely at the problem, you're left wondering whether such a goal can ever be attained. At least, that's what I was left wondering. 
 On Monday, two related organizations, Millennium Promise, co-founded in 2005 by the well-known Columbia economist Jeffrey Sachs, and Malaria No More, a spinoff started last December, held their first fund-raising dinner. Roger Waters of Pink Floyd fame spoke and sang, as did John Legend. Peter A. Chernin, the president of the News Corporation and a co-founder of Malaria No More, received a standing ovation for his malaria work. Daniel Vasella, the chief executive of Novartis, received an award; last year, Novartis lost $50 million selling, below cost, tens of millions of doses of its highly effective malaria drug to the developing world. Mr. Sachs gave a rousing, almost euphoric speech, insisting that the end of poverty and disease in Africa was within our grasp. The dinner raised an astonishing $2.7 million.
 Then, on Wednesday, another nonprofit, the Global Business Coalition on H.I.V./AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, held its big fund-raising dinner. This is a group that exists solely to marshal corporate support for work in controlling and reducing the three diseases. Speakers included the actor Jamie Foxx, the former United Nations ambassador Richard C. Holbrooke, and Richard Branson, the chief executive of the Virgin Group. The keynote address was delivered by Bill Clinton, who dazzled the gathering with his message of hope. The coalition raised over $2 million that night.
 In the space of two days, around $5 million was raised to combat disease in Africa. Much of that money was earmarked for malaria.
 In the West, and especially in corporate America, malaria has become the disease du jour. I don't mean that cynically; it's just a fact. Because malaria has largely been eradicated in the developed world, we in the West have ignored the fact that it has continued to ravage Africa, particularly its children. But then the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation began to focus on it, and the United Nations made it one of the lynchpins in its calls to end third world poverty. Last year, the White House held a malaria summit meeting. Exxon Mobil, Pepsi, Chevron, JPMorgan, KPMG and many others, including most of the big pharmaceutical companies, are engaged in the fight against malaria in Africa. The current issue of Vanity Fair, ''guest edited'' by Bono, is devoted to Africa and has plenty of references to malaria. Included is a lengthy profile of the passionate, charismatic 52-year-old Mr. Sachs. ''Messianic,'' the article called him.
 More than anything else -- more even than the path-breaking work of the Gates Foundation -- it has been Mr. Sachs's ability to sell his vision that has caused wealthy philanthropists and large corporations to get behind the causes of eradicating malaria and ending poverty in Africa. He's the reason George Soros gave $50 million to Millennium Promise, and why the organization has been able to raise over $100 million in its short life. 
 But that same vision, which is inexorably linked to malaria, but is much larger than that, has caused some mainstream economists to say that while Mr. Sachs means well, he is peddling a dream that will always be just that: a dream. ''I think he is improving the lives of many people,'' said Tyler Cowen, an economics professor at George Mason University (and a contributor to The New York Times). ''But what he is doing is much oversold.'' Mr. Cowen does not believe that Mr. Sachs's work in Africa will endure.
 The question that confronts us this morning is, Who is going to turn out to be right?
 Jeff Sachs has zero patience for his critics. He makes it clear in interviews that he feels he knows better than any armchair economist what will work in Africa because ''I'm out here doing things in the trenches, with a long track record.''
 ''I've seen a lot of things on the ground that have changed my view both of how to do economics and what the important issues are,'' he told me. ''I realized early on that I couldn't understand the problems I was interested in without engagement, because the world is more complicated than a theoretical model.''
 Mr. Sachs has always believed in engaging with the world. As a young economist, he advised the governments of Bolivia, which was struggling with hyperinflation, and Poland, which was trying to transform itself into a market economy, advocating a harsh form of economic medicine that was called shock therapy. By the time he was 35, Mr. Sachs was probably the most famous economist in the world.
 After a troubled stint working with the government of Russia, Mr. Sachs moved on to the United Nations, where he advised Kofi Annan on the problems of third world poverty. He orchestrated a huge report on poverty, which led to something called the Millennium Development Goals. And then, having helped formulate the goals, he decided to try to make them a reality. Thus was born Millennium Promise.
 Although Mr. Sachs insists that he has always been consistent in his approach -- ''I try to design strategies appropriate to the circumstances,'' he said -- most other people think his Africa strategy is radically different from anything he's done before. Mainly, he says he believes that the West needs to spend huge sums of money to control disease, improve farming, create better schools and build infrastructure in Africa. And if that can be done, he believes, economic growth, and all the good things that flow from it, will become Africa's lot at last.
 Though he is a prodigious fund-raiser, even Jeffrey Sachs can't wave his magic wand and gather the hundreds of billions of dollars it would take to build all the roads and schools and farms and hospitals that Africa so desperately needs. So what he has done instead is to pick poor rural villages -- he's up to 79 by now -- in countries with relatively stable governments, and find corporations, foundations and wealthy individuals who will adopt them to the tune of $300,000 a year for five years. 
 There is no question that the efforts of Millennium Promise are making a difference in those villages. The schools are drastically better, and thanks to a new lunch program, with the grain provided by the village's own farmers, students are eating better. Each village is given bed nets coated with insecticide, which are the best way to prevent malaria, and a Novartis medicine, Coartem, which has to be taken within a day or so of malarial symptoms. Cases of malaria have dropped significantly. Mr. Sachs's agronomists at the Earth Institute, which he runs at Columbia, create seed that can adapt to the village's usually arid soil, and they give all the farmers fertilizer. Sure enough, the crop yield has increased, in many cases, by four to five times. 
 That is what Mr. Cowen means when he says that Mr. Sachs is improving people's lives. Plainly, he is. But those efforts, laudable though they are, will not eradicate malaria or reduce African poverty in any serious way. The real question is how to turn Mr. Sachs's efforts into more than just a pilot program that temporarily helps a bunch of villages. How will it transform all of Africa? 
 Ultimately, Millennium Promise is hoping that the governments of these countries will pick up where the Fortune 500 companies leave off. But given Africa's history, that is one serious leap of faith. ''He doesn't have a coherent theory by which his model can scale up,'' Mr. Cowen told me.
 Take malaria again. There are several reasons companies are drawn to it. One is that a multinational oil giant like Exxon Mobil has employees in Africa, and it is in its best interest to keep them from getting sick. But another is that, on the surface, malaria really does seem solvable, and companies like to fix things. If everyone in Africa had -- and used -- a bed net, the incidence of new malaria cases would drop to nearly nothing overnight. And if Coartem were more widely available, far fewer malaria victims would die. 
 But it's just not that simple because malaria is so intertwined with other problems Africa faces. What happens when the bed nets tear? How do you get more of them into remote villages? What do you do as the mosquitoes become more resistant to the insecticide? What happens to the clinics -- and the Coartem -- when the Western money goes away? How do you make malaria programs work in the middle of civil wars and strife? And most of all, how do you extend this program all across the continent? Despite the best of intentions, neither Western corporations, nor wealthy philanthropists, are equipped to solve all these problems. ''Countries make their own fate,'' said Bruce Greenwald, Mr. Sachs's economics colleague on the Columbia faculty.
 When you think about it like that, it seems nearly hopeless. When I spoke to Dr. Vasella at Novartis, whose company has just agreed to sponsor a village in Tanzania, he acknowledged that Mr. Sachs's program might not work. But, he said: ''That is still no reason not to try. If you don't try you won't know the outcome.'' He added, ''Unless you are willing to fail, you shouldn't start.''
 And maybe that's the best way to think about what Mr. Sachs -- and Western companies -- are trying to do. Theirs is not a solution but an experiment. It will surely do some good, but it is impossible to know how much. It is a worthy effort, but probably not as profoundly transformative as he likes to portray it. And it is probably best not to get too excited, no matter how inspiring the speeches at New York fund-raisers. 
 Because someday malaria is no longer going to be the pet cause in American boardrooms. And then what? 

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''I'm out here doing things in the trenches, with a long track record,'' Jeffrey Sachs said. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); CHILDREN (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); TUBERCULOSIS (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%)

COMPANY: PROMISE CO LTD (70%); NEWS CORP (69%); NOVARTIS AG (55%); VIRGIN GROUP LTD (53%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (50%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (69%); NWS (ASX) (69%); NVS (NYSE) (55%); NOVN (SWX) (55%); XOM (NYSE) (50%); JPM (NYSE) (50%); JPM (LSE) (50%); 8634 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (70%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (70%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); PETER CHERNIN (53%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%); RICHARD BRANSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007



311 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Mea Culpa, Said the Bond Market Watchers

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE stock market has spent the better part of the last two weeks trying to figure out what higher bond yields really mean for equities. So far, it's hard to conclude very much, except that higher yields have brought higher volatility to stocks, with the Dow Jones industrial average having either lost or gained more than 100 points in five of the last eight trading days. 
 But here's a thought: Why not ask some bond investors directly what message they see behind the recent climb in rates? After all, they're the ones who have been selling Treasury bonds, driving up long-term yields. And let's face it: Stock investors often take their cues from the fixed-income market anyway, because bond investors have a better reputation for accurately forecasting the economy.
In fact, many bond experts say the reasons for the recent sell-off in Treasury bonds aren't terribly complicated. To be sure, there are some technical factors to consider -- for instance, mortgage investors selling some of the Treasury bonds they owned to hedge their portfolios. 
 But for the most part, it's been one big mea culpa. ''Those of us in the bond market got it wrong,'' says Marilyn Cohen, chief executive of Envision Capital Management, a fixed-income manager in Los Angeles. At the start of the year, bond investors were buying Treasuries on the theory that the slowdown in the housing market would seriously hurt the broader economy. 
 But recent government data have shown that the economy is turning out to be far more resilient than fixed-income traders assumed. Last week, for example, the government reported the biggest jump in retail sales in nearly a year and a half. And the annual rate of growth in the gross domestic product, just 0.6 percent in the first quarter, is expected to jump to around 3 percent in the second. 
 This would indicate that ''the bond market got a little ahead of itself'' in anticipating the need for a quick rate cut by the Federal Reserve, said Christopher T. Vincent, head of the fixed-income group at William Blair & Company, the asset manager based in Chicago. 
 And as it became clear in recent days that the Fed probably wouldn't trim rates to bolster the economy this year, bond investors turned around and started pushing yields higher, said Carl P. Kaufman, manager of the Osterweis Strategic Income fund. A result is that long-term bonds are back to paying higher yields than short-term debt, which is the way things usually work. Of course, that wasn't the case in recent months because of the bond market's fear of a possible recession. 
 So far, these higher yields reflect strong forecasts for growth in both the domestic and global economy. But bonds aren't necessarily predicting a corresponding spike in inflation, said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial Services in Boston.
 If the bond market was truly worried about inflation brewing, market strategists say, that fear would be reflected in Treasury inflation-protected securities, or TIPS. Yet the spread between yields on TIPS and traditional Treasuries isn't all that different from what it was at the start of the year.
 All of this would seem to point to an economy that's both stronger and more stable than expected. And Duncan W. Richardson, chief equity investment officer at Eaton Vance, the asset management firm in Boston, noted that ''a healthy economy is not the worst prescription for equities.''
 To be sure, part of the reason stocks lost ground in recent days is that higher interest rates do affect the competitiveness of equities. For instance, some people fear that rising borrowing costs may slow the corporate buyout activity that has fueled higher stock prices recently. 
 Moreover, when yields on 10-year Treasuries have risen in the past, the price-to-earnings ratio of the Standard & Poor's 500 index of blue-chip stocks has typically fallen. 
 But Tobias M. Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist at Citigroup Investment Research, said that as long as 10-year Treasury yields didn't exceed 5.5 percent, stocks were still likely to be considered reasonably priced.
 And if the economy is really accelerating in the second quarter, this should provide a tailwind to strong corporate profit growth, Mr. Levkovich said. That means stock prices could rise further even if P/E ratios don't. Indeed, Mr. Levkovich says he believes that the S.& P. 500 will still close 2007 at around 1,600, which would mean that stocks would climb an additional 4.4 percent by the end of the year.
 Beyond that, what should equity investors expect? Here are some possibilities: MORE GAINS FOR LARGE-CAP STOCKS -- If market volatility is here to stay because of higher interest rates, Mr. Richardson said, investors are likely to gravitate toward stable, dependable companies. And that should benefit large-cap stocks, he said.
 Moreover, if the bond market is truly reflecting strong global growth, companies with a global reach stand to benefit. Larger companies tend to generate a greater percentage of their sales overseas. Finally, rising bond yields are likely to increase overall borrowing costs for companies. Small-cap companies tend to depend more on borrowing than large-cap companies do. THE COMEBACK OF GARP INVESTING -- GARP stands for ''growth at a reasonable price,'' an investment strategy that calls for buying shares of companies with faster-than-average earnings growth -- but only if those shares are attractively priced.
 Although the economy is proving stronger than expected, it's still quite mature. And in the latter stages of an economic cycle, investors tend to focus on growth-oriented stocks, market strategists say. 
 But, at the same time, ''as interest rates rise, people do become more concerned about valuations,'' said David P. Nolan, portfolio manager of the BB&T Mid-Cap Growth fund. So this is not a time to seek out the most aggressive forms of growth. A NEW FOCUS ON DIVIDEND GROWTH -- As rates rise, classic bond alternatives like high-dividend utility stocks are likely to fall out of favor. After all, if investors feel that they can get higher payouts from ultra-safe Treasuries than from utility stocks, why take the risk of owning those stocks?
 Rising yields are also likely to renew investor focus on payouts in general, Mr. Kleintop said. And that could drive investors to sectors where dividends aren't as generous as bond yields but are at least growing. That would include areas like health care, financial services and even technology, he said. CONTINUED INTEREST IN CYCLICAL STOCKS -- If the bond market is correct and the economy is indeed reaccelerating, at least for now, investors shouldn't turn their backs on economically sensitive sectors that have been the market's darlings for several years. These would include areas like the industrials and energy, Mr. Nolan said. 
 Though investors are now inclined to seek shelter from this market storm, they should also remember why the stock market has been so volatile lately. It's the bond market that's been spooking stocks -- and not the other way around. So it makes sense to pay attention to what bonds are saying.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RECESSION (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (63%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: WILLIAM BLAIR & CO LLC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (63%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



312 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: When Does A Housing Slump Become A Bust?

BYLINE: By ANNA BERNASEK

 BODY:
MANY Americans fear the consequences of a housing bust, but few know what one would really look like. 
 Think about it for a moment. How far do housing prices have to fall before a slump becomes a bust? In the stock market, we have a pretty good idea what a crash is. Among stock market experts, there is a consensus that a 10 percent decline in a major index is a correction while a 20 percent decline is more significant: a crash or a bear market, depending on the time involved. For the macro economy, there is also agreed-upon terminology. For example, a recession means two consecutive quarters of declining gross domestic product.
 But when it comes to declines in housing prices, there is no such framework. As experts debate whether we're headed for a housing bust, you'd think that we should at least be able to define it. 
 The problem is that economists haven't agreed on a definition. In part, that's because severe declines in housing prices tend to be rare events, not a common subject for discussion. The last really big decline in national housing prices occurred more than 70 years ago, during the Great Depression. Another reason is that the data measuring the housing market is far more opaque than that for the stock market. 
 But let's work with the data we have. Start with the worst housing market on record. During the 1930s, housing prices fell sharply across the nation. According to the S.& P./Case-Shiller home price index, a measure of national housing prices, the average price of a home fell 24 percent from 1929 to 1933. 
 More recently, there have been severe price declines in regional markets. The most severe was in the so-called oil patch during the 1980s. In the late 1970s, as global oil prices soared, oil-producing areas of Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Colorado, Wyoming and Alaska experienced an economic boom. As oil prices collapsed in the early 1980s, those economies crashed, and housing along with them.
 In the worst cases, nominal home prices fell 40 percent in Lafayette, La., and 33 percent in Casper, Wyo., from 1983 to 1988, according to the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight. In Houston, prices fell 22 percent. 
 Then there were the sharp price declines in housing on both coasts during the early 1990s. At that time, a series of events including the recession of 1990-91, the military downsizing after the cold war and a commercial real estate collapse led to a housing downturn.
 For instance, in Los Angeles, Long Beach and Santa Ana areas of California, the average price of a home tumbled 19 percent from 1993 to 1998, while on the other side of the country, in the Hartford area, the average home price dropped 17 percent over the same period, according to the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight.
 Two economists with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Cynthia Angell and Norman Williams, have studied housing cycles since 1978 and have come up with a definition of a housing bust. In a paper published in February 2005, they called it a decline of at least 15 percent in nominal prices, meaning not adjusted for inflation. While economists tend to focus on real prices over time, the authors argue that in housing, nominal prices are a better measure of distress because homeowners, rarely think in inflation-adjusted terms in assessing market conditions.
 Other economists, however, argue that 15 percent may be too restrictive a definition. Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Economy.com, says a better one would be a decline of 10 percent or more from peak to trough. ''When you see a decline in home prices of 10 percent, you get significant credit problems and it's enough to wipe out equity in most cases,'' he said. 
 Mr. Zandi also said that once prices have dropped 10 percent, there tends to be a self-reinforcing downward cycle. If borrowers can't afford their mortgages and banks foreclose, their homes are generally sold at significant discounts to the market. That creates an added drag on overall prices, resulting in greater numbers of foreclosures, followed by even greater price slides.
 Another reason Mr. Zandi argues for 10 percent is the tendency of housing-price measurements to underestimate declines. Sellers often provide discounts that may not show up in the measured price, but are still significant. Today, some homebuilders are discounting the sales price of new homes by an average of 5 percent, Mr. Zandi said. 
 So how far have prices actually fallen? The median price of an existing home has declined 4 percent, on average, since the peak in October 2005, according to the National Association of Realtors. Yet in some areas, by Mr. Zandi's definition, at least, the market is already experiencing a bust.
 In the 12 months that ended in March, for example, the median price of an existing single-family home in the Sarasota-Bradenton- Venice area of Florida fell by 12.4 percent, according to the National Association of Realtors. In Louisiana, in the area of New Orleans, Metairie and Kenner, the average price fell by 11 percent. And in the Reno-Sparks area of Nevada, the average decline was 8.8 percent, not far from Mr. Zandi's threshold. 
 Over all, Mr. Zandi points out that 40 percent of metropolitan areas around the country are now experiencing declines in housing prices.
 WHAT would a definition of a housing bust tell us? First, it would help explain why, despite all the focus on the possibility of a bust, many people may feel that the housing market really isn't all that bad right now. On average, and based on national surveys, price declines haven't been that severe. 
 But if the pessimists are right that there's more to come, look out. A 10 percent decline in prices is likely to feel pretty awful. And then everyone might agree on what a housing bust is. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Declines in home prices today are hard to miss, but the average price of a home fell much more sharply during the Depression. (Photo by Damian Dovarganes/Associated Press) Chart: ''The Other Crash of '29'' The last big drop in national housing prices started in 1929. By 1933, the average price had fallen 24 percent. Graph tracks nominal home price index from 1920 to 1940. (Source by S. & P./Case-Shiller Index) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CASPER, WY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



313 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; A TOXIC PIPELINE: Hunting an Elusive Killer; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3010 words

HEADLINE: As F.D.A. Tracked Poisoned Drugs, A Winding Trail Went Cold in China

BYLINE: By WALT BOGDANICH; Reporting was contributed by Jake Hooker from Beijing, Hari Kumar from New Delhi, Anand Giridharadas from Mumbai, and Julfikar Ali Manik from Dhaka, Bangladesh.

 BODY:
After a drug ingredient from China killed dozens of Haitian children a decade ago, a senior American health official sent a cable to her investigators: find out who made the poisonous ingredient and why a state-owned company in China exported it as safe, pharmaceutical-grade glycerin.
The Chinese were of little help. Requests to find the manufacturer were ignored. Business records were withheld or destroyed. 
 The Americans had reason for alarm. ''The U.S. imports a lot of Chinese glycerin and it is used in ingested products such as toothpaste,'' Mary K. Pendergast, then deputy commissioner for the Food and Drug Administration, wrote on Oct. 27, 1997. Learning how diethylene glycol, a syrupy poison used in some antifreeze, ended up in Haitian fever medicine might ''prevent this tragedy from happening again,'' she wrote. 
 The F.D.A.'s mission ultimately failed. By the time an F.D.A. agent visited the suspected manufacturer, the plant was shut down and Chinese companies said they bore no responsibility for the mass poisoning.
 Ten years later it happened again, this time in Panama. Chinese-made diethylene glycol, masquerading as its more expensive chemical cousin glycerin, was mixed into medicine, killing at least 100 people there last year. And recently, Chinese toothpaste containing diethylene glycol was found in the United States and seven other countries, prompting tens of thousands of tubes to be recalled.
 The F.D.A.'s efforts to investigate the Haiti poisonings, documented in internal F.D.A. memorandums obtained by The New York Times, demonstrate not only the intransigence of Chinese officials, but also the same regulatory failings that allowed a virtually identical poisoning to occur 10 years later. The cases further illustrate what happens when nations fail to police the global pipeline of pharmaceutical ingredients.
 In Haiti and Panama, the poison was traced to Chinese chemical companies not certified to make pharmaceutical ingredients. State-owned exporters then shipped the toxic syrup to European traders, who resold it without identifying the previous owner -- an attempt to keep buyers from bypassing them on future orders.
 As a result, most of the buyers did not know that the ingredient came from China, known for producing counterfeit products, nor did they show much interest in finding out.
 China itself was a victim of diethylene glycol poisoning last year when at least 18 people died after ingesting poisonous medicine made there. In the wake of the deaths, and reports of pet food and other products contaminated with dangerous ingredients from China, officials there announced that they would overhaul the regulation of food, drugs and chemicals.
 Beyond the three incidents linked to Chinese diethylene glycol, there have been at least five other mass poisonings involving the mislabeled chemical in the past two decades -- in Bangladesh, Nigeria, Argentina and twice in India.
 ''This problem keeps coming back,'' said Dr. Joshua G. Schier, a toxicologist with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And no wonder: the counterfeiters are rarely identified, much less prosecuted.
 Finding a way to keep diethylene glycol out of medicine, particularly in developing countries, has confounded health officials for decades. ''It is preventable and we have to figure out some way of stopping this from happening again,'' said Carol Rubin, a senior C.D.C. official. 
 In a global economy, ingredients for drugs are often bought and sold many times in different countries, sometimes without proper paperwork, all of which increases the risk of fraud, the authorities say. 
 The Panama poison passed through five hands, the Haitian poison six. In both cases, the factory's original certificate of analysis, attesting to the contents of the shipment and its provenance, did not accompany the product as it moved around the world. 
 ''Where there is a loophole in the system, a frailty in the system, it's the ability of an unscrupulous distributor to take industrial or technical material and pass it off as pharmaceutical grade,'' said Kevin J. McGlue, a board member of the International Pharmaceutical Excipients Council.
 Uncovering that deception can be difficult. ''It's impossible to get anyone to do the trace-backs,'' said Dr. Michael L. Bennish, co-author of a 1995 medical journal article on a poisoning epidemic in Bangladesh.
 One reason, Dr. Bennish said, is the clout of local manufacturers. ''We tried to follow up as amateur Sherlocks, investigators, but you don't go down to the wholesale market and ask questions,'' he said. ''You are going to get your fingers burnt.'' A Crisis in Haiti 
 By the end of June 1996, the F.D.A. knew it might have an international crisis on its hands. A poison had found its way into fever syrup in Haiti, and the F.D.A. wanted to know if more of the same might be heading to the United States or, for that matter, to any other country. But to learn that, the agency needed to find the manufacturer. 
 This was not just any poison. Virtually every young poisoning victim who showed up at the main hospital in Port-au-Prince, Haiti's capital, died.
 Labeled pharmaceutical-grade glycerin, the toxic syrup was mixed into thousands of bottles of fever medicine. For months, parents gave it to children, then watched them die, in agony, from kidney failure. No one suspected the medicine until much later. 
 Officially, at least 88 children died, nearly half under the age of 2. But those 88 were only the ones doctors remembered or for whom hospital records could be found. 
 The F.D.A. traced the poison to a German broker, Chemical Trading and Consulting, but the company's records were not much help. ''They cannot trace glycerine lots to their manufacturer,'' David Pulham, an F.D.A. investigator, wrote on June 30, 1996.
 Chemical Trading had arranged for a Dutch company, Vos B.V., to sell 72 barrels of the suspect syrup to Haiti, records show. The agency dispatched an investigator, Ann deMarco, who made an unsettling discovery: sitting in Vos's warehouse near Rotterdam were 66 more barrels labeled glycerin, all containing lethal concentrations of diethylene glycol. 
 ''Some of this second shipment has been sold,'' Ms. deMarco wrote in a memorandum on July 4, 1996. Although the missing barrels had gone to an industrial user, not a drug maker, the F.D.A.'s worries grew. 
 Ms. deMarco learned that another broker, Metall-Chemie, a German trader, had arranged for Vos to buy the barrels from Sinochem International Chemicals Company, a giant exporter in Beijing owned by the Chinese government.
 But Metall-Chemie also did not know the manufacturer, and one of its officials predicted that the F.D.A. would have trouble finding that out. ''It is difficult to get any information from Chinese traders,'' Ms. deMarco wrote.
 More complete shipping records would have identified who made the poison. But in this case, records provided few clues.
 ''The original source of the material had been obliterated on documents and product containers,'' Ms. deMarco wrote to senior F.D.A. officials. ''One trader referred to this practice as 'neutralization.' I was advised that neutralization is a common practice among traders in order to protect their business interests.''
 With no paper trail, American officials turned to Sinochem for help. 
 Initially, they took an indirect approach. In July 1996, the American Embassy in China contacted the company and asked for a list of Chinese glycerin makers, without saying that it was investigating the Haiti poisonings. Sinochem, however, ''would not reveal the names of actual manufacturers in order to prevent the prospective foreign customer from bypassing Sinochem,'' an embassy official reported to Washington. 
 In early August, American officials asked Sinochem representatives specifically about the origin of the Haiti poison. ''They want to investigate further and were unable (or unwilling) to give the name of the manufacturer at this time,'' the officials reported. 
 Federal investigators sought help from senior Chinese drug regulators, who promised to help find the manufacturer, but said it ''will take time,'' records show.
 When another month passed without any word from either regulators or Sinochem, the embassy tried again. Chinese regulators said they had done nothing to find the factory, according to a confidential State Department telegram from September 1996. 
 Sinochem did finally offer the manufacturer's name: the Tianhong Fine Chemicals Factory in the city of Dalian in northeastern China. But Sinochem ''refused'' to provide an address, saying it was illegible. A telephone number would have to suffice, it said. 
 That, too, was unproductive. When American investigators called the plant manager, Zhang Gang, they were told he was not available. Send a fax, they were told. That did not work either. ''The phone was always busy,'' investigators reported.
 Finally, they got Mr. Zhang on the phone, but he, too, refused to give out his factory's address. He said that tests had found no signs of diethylene glycol, adding that ''there had been no cases in China of poisoning resulting from the ingestion'' of glycerin contaminated by diethylene glycol, investigators wrote.
 After months of trying to trace the poison to its source, United States investigators were at a dead end.
 ''The Chinese officials we contacted on this matter were all reluctant to become involved,'' a State Department official wrote in late September 1996, saying that drug regulators and the plant manager had insisted on communicating only on the telephone ''to avoid leaving a paper trail.''
 He added, ''We cannot be optimistic about our chances for success in tracking down the other possible glycerine shipments.'' 
 The following May, Mr. Pulham, who was part of the original F.D.A. investigative team in Haiti, tried to revive the investigation. ''Is it possible to block-list all Chinese pharmaceutical products until we gain cooperation?'' he asked.
 The suggestion went nowhere. Five months later, Ms. Pendergast of the F.D.A. wrote her memorandum, imploring investigators to keep digging.
 ''China is turning into one of the major bulk pharmaceutical producers in the world,'' she wrote. ''Unless they have an open, transparent and predictable system for dealing with problems and other countries, it is going to be rough sledding in the years ahead.''
 On Nov. 17, 1997, federal investigators once again questioned Sinochem officials. They denied any wrongdoing, saying that two certificates of analysis showed that the suspect shipment was safe, pharmaceutical-grade syrup. But when the F.D.A. asked to see them, Sinochem refused. 
 ''The officials were not willing to explain why they could not provide the copies,'' an American official reported at the time.
 Chen Liusuo, who handled the glycerin sales, strongly disputed the F.D.A.'s account. In an interview with The Times, Mr. Chen said Sinochem cooperated. ''We gave them everything they wanted,'' Mr. Chen said, adding that the agency was satisfied.
 ''The product we sold was glycerin,'' he said. ''It passed through three or four companies after us. To find the problem you need to look at every link in the supply chain.''
 A Chinese government official familiar with the F.D.A.'s inquiries said the Americans' frustration might have stemmed from their misunderstanding about who regulated chemical companies, which led them to seek help from the wrong officials. ''This was a truly tragic event, and we expressed our sadness and sympathy,'' said the official, who asked not to be identified.
 At the end of 1997, a year and a half after the F.D.A. began tracing the poisonous shipments, one of its investigators, Ted Sze, finally got inside the Tianhong chemical plant in Dalian. But glycerin was no longer made there, and Mr. Sze had no records to inspect. The plant manager, Mr. Zhang, told investigators that he had received no complaints about his products and that his company had not produced the poison.
 Mr. Sze, now retired from the F.D.A., said in an interview that he had no choice but to accept the manager's word and clear the company of wrongdoing. ''By the time I went there, the plant was already shut down,'' he said. ''The agency can only do so much.'' The Experts' Recommendations 
 The United States may not have gotten what it wanted from China, but the Haiti crisis did bring together health groups to search for ways to stop diethylene glycol poisonings. At a workshop in Washington in February 1997, health experts recommended that certificates of analysis be improved to allow users to ''trace the product back through every intermediary, broker and repackager to the original manufacturer.''
 The workshop participants also called for better testing of drug ingredients and asked governments to tighten oversight of drug manufacturing. 
 The next year, the World Health Organization offered many of the same recommendations. And a 1998 article in JAMA, the Journal of the American Medical Association, warned that failure to strictly follow the guidelines could cause poisonings ''even in countries where quality control procedures are usually strictly applied.'' 
 Much of this had been said before, yet the poisonings have continued. 
 Just as the JAMA article was being published, three dozen children began dying of acute renal failure at two hospitals in Delhi, India. A local drug maker had unwittingly mixed diethylene glycol into acetaminophen syrup, much as the Haitian pharmacist had.
 The drug maker was prosecuted, but according to interviews and government records no progress had been made in identifying the supplier of the poison. 
 ''My experience as an investigator tells me that many of these things will not be proven,'' said Dr. M. Venkateswarlu, the drug controller general of India.
 Finding counterfeiters often means pursuing leads across foreign borders, and no international authority has the power to do that. Dr. Howard Zucker, who helps to oversee drug issues for the W.H.O., said individual countries must conduct their own trace-back investigations.
 But if the United States could not do that on behalf of Haiti, poorer, less influential nations would have little chance of tracking down counterfeiters.
 After the Haiti poisoning, a more accurate, less expensive test for diethylene glycol was developed, but last year's case in Panama shows that suppliers and governments do not always use it. 
 And as long as counterfeiters do not fear prosecution, the poisonings are likely to continue, experts say.
 Dr. Mohammed Hanif, a prominent physician in Dhaka, Bangladesh, said the foreign suppliers of diethylene glycol were never prosecuted for the deaths of thousands of children from 1982 to 1992. ''The traumatizing memories of those days still torment me,'' said Dr. Hanif, who wrote a paper about the deaths from toxic medicine.
 In Argentina, a court official said no one had been prosecuted for supplying the diethylene glycol that ended up in a health supplement, killing 29 people in 1992. 
 David Mishael, a Miami lawyer, knows the difficulty of assigning blame in these deaths. For 10 years, Mr. Mishael has unsuccessfully pursued legal claims in the United States and Europe against European traders that helped to arrange the shipment of toxic syrup to Haiti. ''You can imagine the cost,'' said Mr. Mishael, who is representing Haitian parents whose children died from the fever medicine. 
 He said Dutch authorities assessed a $250,000 fine against Vos, which tested the counterfeit syrup, found it impure and did not alert anyone in Haiti. But given how many died, he called the size of the fine ''a joke.'' A lawyer who represents Vos, Jeffrey B. Shapiro, declined to comment. 
 A few children survived after being flown to the United States by humanitarian groups. One of them, Faika Jean, was 2 months old at the time and nearly died en route. Now 11, she has learning disabilities as a result of the poisoning, said her father, Wislin Jean. 
 Ms. Pendergast, now a private lawyer and consultant, said China had the most to answer for. ''Everybody else is just reacting to initial failures,'' she said. ''It needs to take steps to protect not just its own consumers but also consumers all around the world.''
 After The Times reported in May that the Panama poison had been made and exported by Chinese companies as 99.5 percent pure glycerin, Chinese regulators said they would reopen their investigation of the incident. Three weeks later, the officials acknowledged some ''misconduct'' in how Chinese companies labeled the toxic syrup.
 But most of the blame, they said, rested with a Panamanian importer who changed the paperwork to make the syrup look safer than it actually was. 
 The F.D.A. disagrees, saying the deception began with Chinese companies falsely labeling a poisonous product glycerin. ''If the drums had been 99.5 percent glycerin, the deaths in Panama would never have occurred,'' the F.D.A. said in a statement. A Dissatisfied Customer 
 The F.D.A.'s Haiti investigation never did find more counterfeit glycerin from China, despite a global hunt. But its concerns, it turns out, were not unfounded. 
 In 1995, the same year babies began to die in Haiti, 284 barrels of a chemical labeled glycerin arrived in New York on container ships. Although the chemical was not intended for use in drugs, it was labeled 98 percent pure. An official with the company that bought the barrels, Dastech International, of Great Neck, N.Y., would later say, ''It smelled like glycerin, it looked like glycerin.'' But after one of its customers complained, Dastech took a closer look. 
 Although the chemical was labeled 98 percent pure glycerin, Dastech said in court records that the syrup actually contained sugar compounds -- as well as diethylene glycol. 
 The exporter was Sinochem. Claiming that it was fleeced, Dastech tried to get its money back from the broker who arranged the sale, court records show.
 It never did. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a case echoed by recent poisonings, at least 88 Haitian children were killed in 1996 by medicine made with a toxic syrup sent from China. Their pictures were collected by a lawyer, David Mishael. (Photo by Barbara F. Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
In 1996 in Haiti, Faika Jean took toxic medicine shipped from China via European traders. Now 11, she has learning disabilities caused by the poison, her father said. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)
JUNE 1, MIAMI -- Tainted toothpaste made in China is found in a store's inventory. (Photo by Alex Quesada for The New York Times)
JUNE 9, MANAGUA, NICARAGUA -- The police seize 40,000 tubes made in China. (Photo by Esteban Felix/Associated Press)
 MAY 24, 2007, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC -- Officials find tainted toothpaste from China. (Photo by Ramon Espinosa/Associated Press)(pg. 12) Chart/Photos: ''Paper Trail of an F.D.A. Investigation'' Chinese officials showed little interest in helping the Food and Drug Administration investigate how a toxic drug ingredient produced in China and exported by a state-owned company made its way into fever medicine in Haiti, killing dozens of children in the mid-1990s, according to internal F.D.A. documents. SEPT 1996 Confidential telegram from the U.S. Embassy in Beijing about attempts to contact the Dalian factory, which is suspected of producing the drug. ''The Chinese officials we contacted on this matter were all reluctant to become involved . . .'' ''Chinese inter-agency cooperation and reluctance to be involved in a matter in which they believe China might lose face could be part of the reason.'' MAY 8, 1997 Memo from an F.D.A. investigator offering a plan to revive the hunt for the toxic drug. ''. . . is it possible to block-list all Chinese pharmaceutical products until we gain cooperation?'' SEPT. 1997 Cable from the U.S. Embassy in Beijing regarding a meeting between the F.D.A. and Chinese drug officials. ''The glycerine, apparently made in China, was traded among a number of European brokers who repeatedly photocopied the chemical analysis certificate of the glycerin, each one replacing the name of the previous source company . . . so that companies further down the chain would not be able to go back to the original supplier . . .'' OCT. 27, 1997 Letter from the F.D.A. headquarters to the U.S. Embassy in Beijing following up on the investigation. ''. . . it is important to find out what went wrong, and who knew if anything was wrong, so as to prevent this tragedy from happening again.'' ''Unless (China has) an open, transparent, and predictable system for dealing with problems and other countries, it is going to be rough sledding in the years ahead.'' NOV. 20, 1997 Letter from the U.S. Embassy in Beijing to the F.D.A. regarding efforts to visit the Dalian plant. ''We still don't have permission to visit the plant yet. The Ministry of Health says that they fully understand the purpose of the F.D.A. in wanting to visiting the plant and supports our going to the Dalian plant but since the plant is not under the Ministry of Health, they can't formally approve it.'' DEC. 3, 1997 Cable summarizing the F.D.A.'s inspection of the Dalian plant, by which time production had stopped and records had been destroyed. The F.D.A. inspector had no choice but to accept the manager's denial that any poison had been produced there. ''. . . the plant produces chemicals to the specifications of its customers. The chemical plant retains records for only one year so all records from the late 1994 manufacture of the glycerin batch that reached Haiti have probably been destroyed.'' (pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POISONINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); CHEMICALS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CHEMICALS MFG (76%); FOOD MISLABELING (74%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (72%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (70%); PET FOODS (69%); COUNTERFEITING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); LIAONING, CHINA (90%) HAITI (98%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



314 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: A High-Tech Center Moves Into Baltimore, and Residents May Be Driven Out

BYLINE: By MELODY SIMMONS

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, June 16 

 BODY:
For nearly three decades, Charlotte Johnson witnessed the drug dealing and violence on the streets in front of her modest row house in East Baltimore. She rode it out only to face a new challenge today -- the community's transformation under the largest planned urban renewal in the country, which could soon drive her out of the neighborhood.
 ''It's like taking a piece of my heart out,'' said Ms. Johnson, 54. ''All I'm asking for is just to give me a house in the place for the house you are taking.'' 
Ms. Johnson is one of 400 families awaiting relocation as workers clear part of the 100-acre site for the $1.4 billion project. It will convert the once-blighted neighborhood into a biotechnology research center linked to the nearby Johns Hopkins Hospital. It will also include 2,200 new and renovated housing units and generate 6,000 jobs and millions of dollars in tax revenue for the city and state. 
 City officials believe the project could play a major role in turning around the city and attracting additional development. 
 ''It's a new city within a city,'' said Anthony J. Ambridge, a former Baltimore city councilman turned private developer. ''It's a long-term project, and the dividends won't be paid for years.''
 But for residents of the neighborhood, the change is bittersweet. 
 Ms. Johnson said the thick dust stirred up by the construction just across the street from her front steps had often made her ill. She also worries about giving up the house her parents bought in 1955 for $5,000. With some buyout packages already offered at an average of $153,000, Ms. Johnson, out of work and on disability, said she will not be able to afford a house in the new community, where prices are expected to start at $250,000.
 ''It truly hurts because of the history behind this house,'' she said. ''My parents gave me this place to keep in the family.''
 For a year, bulldozers have been clearing blocks pockmarked by a 70 percent vacancy rate and carrying the nickname Badlands since the crack epidemic of the 1980s. 
 This summer, the first new housing units will open -- an apartment complex for older residents, followed in the fall by apartments for firefighters, police officers, teachers and nurses.
 The project is a public-private partnership mixing $250 million in city, state and federal money with $1.2 billion in private investment, said Jack Shannon, executive director of East Baltimore Development Inc., the nonprofit organization in charge of the project. The Annie E. Casey Foundation, a nonprofit group based in Baltimore, has committed $55 million, $8.5 million of which will go toward relocating families. Johns Hopkins, which will lease a majority of space in the biotechnology park, has committed more than $30 million. 
 Mr. Shannon said the project would spread out over 30 square blocks and hold up to two million square feet of office and research space. The goal of the new housing units, he added, is to create a mixed-income community. 
 Longtime residents remain skeptical. 
 Donald Gresham, once homeless and now the owner of a two-story row house, said his annual salary of about $10,000 would prevent him from returning to the community as a homeowner. Even though Mr. Shannon has promised to offer gap financing for qualified residents who want to return from a no-interest equity mortgage pool, Mr. Gresham, a community activist who heads the Save Middle East Action Committee, said he was not interested. 
 ''My hope for the future is that I would be able to have a home that is affordable,'' he said. ''I'm looking for security, to know that I have a secure life after this is over. And if I don't get that, I'm going to be really mad.''
 Mr. Shannon acknowledged the frustrations. Over the past year, workers from East Baltimore Development have helped relocate 396 families from the site, showing them homes and apartments available for purchase and rent in surrounding city neighborhoods. It remains unclear whether they will return to their former neighborhood once new housing opens up.
 ''For better or worse, we're pushing the frontier here,'' said Mr. Shannon, a former member of the Camden, N.J., school board who later worked for Edward G. Rendell when he was mayor of Philadelphia. ''We're trying to build day in and day out, interaction by interaction, meeting by meeting, a level of trust.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 26, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 17 about a redevelopment project in Baltimore that has displaced some longtime residents misstated the amount of space Johns Hopkins University will occupy in the project's research park. It has agreed to lease about a third of the space in the park's first building, not ''a majority of space'' in the park. The article also misstated the lowest price for new housing in the development. While the bulk of the housing will indeed start at $250,000, some one-bedroom units are expected to be available for about $200,000, although prices have not been set.

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Dr. Stephen Desiderio of Johns Hopkins, the developer Anthony J. Ambridge, and Donald Gresham and Charlotte Johnson, residents of a neighborhood in East Baltimore that is being redeveloped. (Photographs by Brendan Smialowski for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); FAMILY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); COCAINE (73%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%) MARYLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



315 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: An Unpleasant Trudge Toward Baseball's Record Books

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
One by one, men who earn their living by playing baseball enter the carpeted sanctum of the San Francisco Giants clubhouse. They shrug into uniforms and prepare for another night shift, though no night is just another night anymore, thanks to the man now at the threshold.
 He does not saunter in, as his critics would have it. He simply walks in, tall and broad-chested, with a shaved head that some say is larger than it used to be, though for reasons unrelated to his ego. As he moves, people in the room make furtive cellphone calls. He's here, they whisper. Yeah, he's in. 
 He, of course, is Barry Bonds, and at 42 he may well be both the best and the most disliked hitter in baseball history. Considering the many gifted athletes and reprobates to precede him to the batter's box, this is no small feat. If statisticians tracked unpleasantness, he'd be at the tail end of a 22-year streak.
 He passes a small, round table, on which sits a copy of The San Francisco Chronicle, face up. The headline reads, ''As Milestone Nears, Bonds Probe Drags,'' and is accompanied by a photograph of Bonds from behind, the number 25 emblazoned across his expansive back, a black bat at rest on his left shoulder. If the story is a strike, Bonds does not swing; he just keeps walking.
 As testament to his status, or to his isolation, Bonds maintains a large corner locker made virtually private by its close proximity to a wide pillar. The space includes a lounge chair, a large television and an unwelcoming ambience that signals to teammates: There is only one Giant.
 He opens a cardboard box containing black bats, freshly shipped, and pulls them out one at a time, removing the plastic from their barrels and waving them in half-swings, as if testing their kinetic potential. He selects a couple, meticulously wraps tape around their handles, then tests their feel again.
 At the moment he seems focused on this essential tool of his trade, but later, in a brief audience, he delights in dispelling all romance about The Bat -- as if celebrating the instrument deflects attention from the virtuoso.
 ''The bat ain't the player, bro','' he says. ''Let it go.''
 Barring injury, suspension, or an Act of God, this brooding ballplayer in a lounge chair, the difficult-to-like Bonds, will soon surpass the well-liked Hank Aaron in career home runs, breaking the most storied record in sports. With 747 home runs to his credit, he needs just 9 more.
 His could have been a wonderful story on many levels, the least flattering of which would merely have been the lesson not to confuse athletes for heroes. Instead, that Chronicle headline shouts from the clubhouse table about a protracted federal investigation into whether Bonds lied to a grand jury about steroid use, drowning out a song playing over the sound system called ''I Heard a Rumor.'' 
 He has professed his innocence as troubling grand jury information has become public, as a former girlfriend has recalled his curious habits -- as Greg Anderson, his trainer and a documented steroids enabler, sits for months in prison, held in contempt for refusing to testify against his multimillionaire buddy Barry, who used to throw him a few bucks now and then. 
 But as Bonds attributes his astounding late-career achievements, including an unprecedented 73 home runs in 2001, to nutrition and weight training, people cannot help but stare at his bulked-up body. Is it a trick of the suspicious mind, or does his very head look larger?
 All this has created the awkward year that Major League Baseball richly deserves, given its long reluctance to tackle the matter of performance-enhancing drugs. For now the baseball establishment is acting like chagrined parents preparing for a shotgun wedding, while Aaron says he plans to be golfing on the blessed day.
 Consider, then, what it must be like to be Barry Bonds at this moment: the focus of a criminal investigation, the target of national jeers, the despoiler of sacred statistics, the latest loneliest man in baseball. But among his many gifts, it seems, beyond the keen eyesight and perfect swing, there is this: the preternatural ability to compartmentalize.
 On this night, at AT&T Park, more than 37,000 fans arrive to share in what the Giants organization, though not Major League Baseball, is calling the ''Road to History.'' They watch Bonds move from the dugout to left field and back again, not quite walking, not quite jogging, his every step a study in the economy of energy.
 On this night, children lean over the dugout lip with baseballs and pens, and chirp like nestlings, ''Barry, Barry,'' innocent of the knowledge that Bonds is hoarding his own memorabilia, much to the consternation of the Hall of Fame. (''I'm not worried about the Hall,'' he recently said. ''I take care of me.'')
 And on this night, Bonds bats four times, as calm in the batter's box as a man at a bus stop. The opposing team walks him intentionally twice, rather than suffer the consequences of one of his swings. He also hits a line-drive single, his 1,468th, and a rocketing double, his 594th, that nearly clears the wall in right-center field. No one else hits with such command.
 With all that is swirling around him, Bonds seems to find true serenity only in the few square feet of the batter's box. Asked later what he hears when he steps up to bat, he says, ''Blank.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fans waiting for autographs from Barry Bonds, who is hoarding his own memorabilia during the chase for the home run record.
 BARRY BONDS (Photographs by ANGEL FRANCO/The New York Times) Map of California highlighting San Francisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); ATHLETES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



316 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Some Buyers Grow Web-Weary, And Online Sales Lose Steam

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL and BOB TEDESCHI; Matt Richtel reported from San Francisco. Bob Tedeschi reported from Guilford, Conn.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 16 

 BODY:
Has online retailing entered the Dot Calm era?
 Since the inception of the Web, online commerce has enjoyed hypergrowth, with annual sales increasing more than 25 percent over all, and far more rapidly in many categories. But in the last year, growth has slowed sharply in major sectors like books, tickets and office supplies.
Growth in online sales has also dropped dramatically in diverse categories like health and beauty products, computer peripherals and pet supplies. Analysts say it is a turning point and growth will continue to slow through the decade. 
 The reaction to the trend is apparent at Dell, which many had regarded as having mastered the science of selling computers online, but is now putting its PCs in Wal-Mart stores. Expedia has almost tripled the number of travel ticketing kiosks it puts in hotel lobbies and other places that attract tourists. 
 The slowdown is a result of several forces. Sales on the Internet are expected to reach $116 billion this year, or 5 percent of all retail sales, making it harder to maintain the same high growth rates. At the same time, consumers seem to be experiencing Internet fatigue and are changing their buying habits.
 John Johnson, 53, who sells medical products to drug stores and lives in San Francisco, finds that retailers have livened up their stores to be more alluring.
 ''They're working a lot harder,'' he said as he shopped at Book Passage in downtown San Francisco. ''They're not as stuffy. The lighting is better. You don't get someone behind the counter who's been there 40 years. They're younger and hipper and much more with it.''
 He and his wife, Liz Hauer, 51, a Macy's executive, also shop online, but mostly for gifts or items that need to be shipped. They said they found that the experience could be tedious at times. ''Online, it's much more of a task,'' she said. Still, Internet commerce is growing at a pace that traditional merchants would envy. But online sales are not growing as fast as they were even 18 months ago.
 Forrester Research, a market research company, projects that online book sales will rise 11 percent this year, compared with nearly 40 percent last year. Apparel sales, which increased 61 percent last year, are expected to slow to 21 percent. And sales of pet supplies are on pace to rise 30 percent this year after climbing 81 percent last year.
 Growth rates for online sales are slowing down in numerous other segments as well, including appliances, sporting goods, auto parts, computer peripherals, and even music and videos. Forrester says that sales growth is pulling back in 18 of the 24 categories it measures.
 Jupiter Research, another market research firm, says the growth rate has peaked. It projects that overall online sales growth will slow to 9 percent a year by the end of the decade from as much as 25 percent in 2004. 
 Early financial results from e-commerce companies bear out the trend. EBay reported that revenue from Web site sales increased by just 1 percent in the first three months of this year compared with the same period last year. Bookings from Expedia's North American Web sites rose by only 1 percent in the first quarter of this year. And Dell said that revenue in the Americas -- United States, Canada and Latin America -- for the three months ended May 4 was $8.9 billion, or nearly unchanged from the same period last year. 
 ''There's a recognition that some customers like a more interactive experience,'' said Alex Gruzen, senior vice president for consumer products at Dell. ''They like shopping and they want to go retail.'' 
 The turning point comes as most adult Americans, and many of their children, are already shopping online.
 Analysts project that by 2011, online sales will account for nearly 7 percent of overall retail sales, though categories like computer hardware and software generate more than 40 percent of their sales on the Internet.
 There are other factors at work as well, including a push by companies like Apple, Starbucks and the big shopping malls to make the in-store experience more compelling.
 Nancy F. Koehn, a professor at Harvard Business School who studies retailing and consumer habits, said that the leveling off of e-commerce reflected the practical and psychological limitations of shopping online. She said that as physical stores have made the in-person buying experience more pleasurable, online stores have continued to give shoppers a blase experience. In addition, online shopping, because it involves a computer, feels like work. 
 ''It's not like you go onto Amazon and think: 'I'm a little depressed. I'll go onto this site and get transported,' '' she said, noting that online shopping is more a chore than an escape. 
 But Ms. Koehn and others say that online shopping is running into practical problems, too. For one, Ms. Koehn noted, online sellers have been steadily raising their shipping fees to bolster profits or make up for their low prices.
 In response, a so-called clicks-and-bricks hybrid model is emerging, said Dan Whaley, the founder of GetThere, which became one of the largest Internet travel businesses after it was acquired by Sabre Holdings.
 The bookseller Borders, for example, recently revamped its Web site to allow users to reserve books online and pick them up in the store. Similar services were started by companies like Best Buy and Sears. Other retailers are working to follow suit.
 ''You don't realize how powerful of a phenomenon this new strategy has become,'' Mr. Whaley said. ''Nearly every big box retailer is opening it up.''
 Barnes & Noble recently upgraded its site to include online book clubs, reader forums and interviews with authors. The company hopes the changes will make the online world feel more like the offline one, said Marie J. Toulantis, the chief executive of BarnesandNoble.com. ''We emulate the in-store experience by having a book club online,'' she said.
 The retailers that have started in-store pickup programs, like Sears and REI, have found that customers who choose the hybrid model are more likely to buy additional products when they pick up their items, said Patti Freeman Evans, an analyst at Jupiter Research.
 Consumers are generally not committed to one form of buying over the other. Maggie Hake, 21, a recent college graduate heading to Africa in the fall to join the Peace Corps, said that when she needs to buy something for her Macintosh computer, she prefers visiting a store. ''I trust it more,'' she said. ''I want to be sure there's a person there if something goes wrong.''
 Ms. Hake, who lives in Kentfield, Calif., just north of San Francisco, does like shopping online for certain things, particularly shoes, which are hard to find in her size. ''I've got big feet -- size 12.5 in women's,'' she said. ''I also buy textbooks online. They're cheaper.''
 John Morgan, an economics professor from the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, said he expected online commerce to continue to increase, partly because it remains less than 1 percent of the overall economy. ''There's still a lot of head room for people to grow,'' he said. 
 PERCENT OF SALES MADE ONLINE: 14 ONLINE REVENUE GROWTH 2005-6: +23 2006-7 PROJECTED: +22 Online revenue growth falling: Office supplies PERCENT OF SALES MADE ONLINE: 11 ONLINE REVENUE GROWTH 2005-6: +48 2006-7 PROJECTED: +18
 Online revenue growth rising: Toys and video games PERCENT OF SALES MADE ONLINE: 16 ONLINE REVENUE GROWTH 2005-6: +11 2006-7 PROJECTED: +20 Online revenue growth rising: Baby products PERCENT OF SALES MADE ONLINE: 15 ONLINE REVENUE GROWTH 2005-6: +5 2006-7 PROJECTED: +21 Online revenue growth rising: Gift cards /certificates PERCENT OF SALES MADE ONLINE: 15 ONLINE REVENUE GROWTH 2005-6: +7 2006-7 PROJECTED: +24 (pg. 21) Chart Online retail sales may reach $116 billion in the United States this year, or 5 percent of all retail sales. But the rate of growth will keep slowing. Graph tracks online retail sales growth projections from 2004-2011. (2007+ are projected.) (Source by Jupiter Research)(pg. 1) 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 26, 2007

 CORRECTION:
 A front-page article on June 17 about slowing growth in online retail sales referred incorrectly to plans by the bookseller Borders to revamp its Web site so customers can reserve books online, then pick them up in the store. That service will be offered in the next version of the company's primary Web site, borders.com; it is not available now.
A front-page article on June 17 about slowing growth in online retail sales referred incorrectly to plans by the bookseller Borders to revamp its Web site so customers can reserve books online, then pick them up in the store. That service will be offered in the next version of the company's primary Web site, borders.com; it is not available now.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Online Revenue Growth Expected to Slow'' According to Forrester Research projections, online revenue growth will be lower this year for most retail categories with more than 10 percent of their sales online. Toys, baby products and gift cards are the exceptions. Online revenue growth falling: Computer hardware and software PERCENT OF SALES MADE ONLINE: 41% ONLINE REVENUE GROWTH 2005-6: +20% 2006-7 PROJECTED: +17% Online revenue growth falling: Travel PERCENT OF SALES MADE ONLINE: 29 ONLINE REVENUE GROWTH 2005-6: +17 2006-7 PROJECTED: +15 Online revenue growth falling: Computer peripherals PERCENT OF SALES MADE ONLINE: 24 ONLINE REVENUE GROWTH 2005-6: +22 2006-7 PROJECTED: +9 Online revenue growth falling: Books PERCENT OF SALES MADE ONLINE: 2 ONLINE REVENUE GROWTH 2005-6: +39 2006-7 PROJECTED: +11 Online revenue growth falling: Music and video PERCENT OF SALES MADE ONLINE: 17 ONLINE REVENUE GROWTH 2005-6: +38 2006-7 PROJECTED: +22 Online revenue growth falling: Event tickets (not including movies) PERCENT OF SALES MADE ONLINE: 15 ONLINE REVENUE GROWTH 2005-6: +41 2006-7 PROJECTED: +25 Online revenue growth falling: Consumer electronics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); TRENDS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (77%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); BOOK SALES (72%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (71%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (56%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



317 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Paperback Row; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 810 words

BYLINE: By Ihsan Taylor

 BODY:
 THE WHISTLING SEASON, by Ivan Doig. (Harvest/Harcourt, $14.) A presiding figure in the literature of the American West, Doig sets his latest novel, like most of his books, in rural Montana. His narrator, a school superintendent named Paul Milliron, looks back to the fall of 1909, when he was 13 and his recently widowed father answered a newspaper ad from a woman seeking employment. The housekeeper, Rose Llewellyn, is as feisty and willful as she is charming, and she brings with her a surprise guest -- her scholarly brother, who, after the elopement of the community's only teacher, takes over the one-room schoolhouse. 
''The land and its people -- the family, the neighbors -- are laid out before us with a fresh, natural openness,'' Sven Birkerts wrote in the Book Review. KNOWLEDGE AND THE WEALTH OF NATIONS: A Story of Economic Discovery, by David Warsh. (Norton, $16.95.) Warsh, a former columnist for The Boston Globe who writes the online newsletter Economic Principals, recounts the intellectual revolution that swept economics in the 1970s and '80s and describes a centuries-old contradiction at the heart of economic theory: the conflict between unrestrained economies of scale, which tend toward monopoly, and the free-market assumption that there are many competitors. ELEMENTS OF STYLE, by Wendy Wasserstein. (Vintage, $14.95.) Wasserstein's only novel -- the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright died of lymphoma last year, at 55 -- is a bright social comedy that takes a sudden, tragic turn. As well-heeled Manhattan socialites adapt to post-9/11 life, their antics are satirized through the eyes of Wasserstein's heroine, Francesca Weissman, a Fifth Avenue pediatrician who treats both the children of her social peers and the disadvantaged of East Harlem. ROUGH CROSSING: Britain, the Slaves and the American Revolution, by Simon Schama. (Harper Perennial, $16.95.) This stirring reconsideration of the American Revolution focuses on the tens of thousands of runaway slaves who served the British crown in hopes of securing their freedom. Of those who reached British protection, many died of disease or in battle, and Schama, a British historian, follows the exiled survivors to Nova Scotia and to Sierra Leone, where they experimented with democracy with the help of British abolitionists. MIDDLE PASSAGES: African American Journeys to Africa, 1787-2005, by James T. Campbell. (Penguin, $17.) An episodic book of interlocking stories, ''Middle Passages'' outlines two centuries of black Americans' travels to Africa in search of cultural identity -- from the repatriation of former slaves to the radical political refugees who gathered in Ghana in the 1950s and '60s. ALL WILL BE WELL: A Memoir, by John McGahern. (Vintage International, $14.95.) McGahern (1934-2006), who conjured stark depictions of love and despair in repressive rural Ireland, was one of his country's most acclaimed fiction writers. This powerful memoir recalls the small, intense community of McGahern's childhood, his dysfunctional yet devoutly religious family, and his adoration for his mother, who died of cancer when McGahern was still a boy. MOHR, by Frederick Reuss. (Unbridled, $16.95.) Max Mohr, the protagonist of Reuss's fourth novel, was a real person -- a German Jew, a medical doctor, a successful writer and a friend of D. H. Lawrence. He was also Reuss's distant relative. ''Mohr'' imagines the period of his life in the 1930s when he left his gentile wife and half-Jewish daughter in Bavaria and went to work as a physician in Shanghai, where he died in mysterious circumstances in 1937. CURRY: A Tale of Cooks and Conquerors, by Lizzie Collingham. (Oxford University, $15.95.) This is a lively study of Indian cooking from the Mogul Empire of the 1600s to the stretch of Lexington Avenue in New York known as Curry Hill. (Curry, it turns out, is a British classification, a catchall based on a term used by Portuguese colonists.) REPORTING: Writings From The New Yorker, by David Remnick. (Vintage, $15.) These 23 articles from The New Yorker (Remnick has served as the magazine's editor since 1998) range from intimate portraits of Al Gore and Mike Tyson to the ravages of Hurricane Katrina and the Hamas victory in the 2006 Palestinian elections. Several pieces explore the aftermath of the Soviet Union's collapse, which Remnick recorded in his Pulitzer Prize-winning book ''Lenin's Tomb.'' Our reviewer, Pete Hamill, called this collection ''the work of a proud generalist, avidly curious about the many enigmas of the world.'' JPOD, by Douglas Coupland. (Bloomsbury, $14.95.) Coupland's ninth novel since his 1991 debut, ''Generation X,'' ''JPod'' is narrated by Ethan Jarlewski, a disenchanted video-game programmer saddled with parents less mature than he is and surrounded by young colleagues busy staving off adulthood. Ihsan Taylor

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); SLAVERY (87%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); THEATER & DRAMA (68%); HISTORY (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); CANCER (64%); LYMPHOMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WEST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); GHANA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



318 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: The Needed Benefits Of Wind Power

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 At a time when we as a state and nation need to be aggressively pursuing clean energy alternatives, Henry S. F. Cooper Jr. promotes coal and nuclear power plants in New York and dismisses the many benefits of wind power technology (''Idiot Wind,'' Op-Ed, June 3). 
The proposed Jordanville Wind Power Project will create enough clean, homegrown electricity to provide the annual power needs for more than 50,000 New York homes. That's 50,000 homes powered without negatively affecting the environment; relying on foreign sources of oil; or putting even more strain on our existing power supply.
 And contrary to Mr. Cooper's assertion that wind farms decrease property values, a recent study by Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory found absolutely no impact on property values from wind farms.
 It's no secret that New York State will need significant additional power in coming years. But New Yorkers must make a choice between clean energy -- the right answer for our economy, our environment, our safety, and for New York -- and business as usual. Carol Murphy Executive Director, Alliance for Clean Energy New York Albany

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (93%); WIND POWER PLANTS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



319 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: June 17, 2007

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended June 2, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount, department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 
 THE DIANA CHRONICLES, by Tina Brown. (Doubleday, $27.50.) The former New Yorker editor perceptively highlights the media's role in the sordid domestic drama that pitted the Princess of Wales against Britain's royal family. NINE, by Andrzej Stasiuk. Translated by Bill Johnston. (Harcourt, $23.) This Polish ''existential crime novel'' vividly evokes the scamming subsistence culture of the Warsaw underworld. LONG TIME LEAVING: Dispatches From Up South, by Roy Blount Jr. (Knopf, $25.) Literate, good-humored essays on Southern culture. THE PERFECT MAN, by Naeem Murr. (Random House; paper, $13.95.) The British-Indian hero of this novel comes of age in racist 1950s Missouri. THE AGE OF ABUNDANCE: How Prosperity Transformed America's Politics and Culture, by Brink Lindsey. (Collins/HarperCollins, $26.95.) Affluence breeds libertarianism, Lindsey argues. RELIGIOUS LITERACY: What Every American Needs to Know -- and Doesn't, by Stephen Prothero. (HarperSanFrancisco, $24.95.) A professor laments our declining knowledge of religion. THE SUSHI ECONOMY: Globalization and the Making of a Modern Delicacy, by Sasha Issenberg. (Gotham, $26.) Sushi, and particularly the bluefin tuna, as an example of ''good'' globalization. THE ZEN OF FISH: The Story of Sushi, From Samurai to Supermarket, by Trevor Corson. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) An often amusing history. THE COLLECTED STORIES, by Leonard Michaels. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Larky and profane, Michaels's sexually kinetic short stories stand alongside those of his best Jewish contemporaries, Grace Paley and Philip Roth. SYLVIA, by Leonard Michaels. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux; paper, $13.) A fictionalized memoir, first published in 1992, about Michaels's first wife, Sylvia Bloch, whose troubled life ended in suicide. TRAVELS WITH HERODOTUS, by Ryszard Kapuscinski. Translated by Klara Glowczewska. (Knopf, $25.) The only memoir by the Pole who was perhaps the world's best literary journalist.The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.


		Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION	1	1	2	A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS, by Khaled Hosseini. (Riverhead, $25.95.) A friendship between two women in Afghanistan against the backdrop of 30 years of war; from the author of ''The Kite Runner.''	2	2	2	THE OVERLOOK, by Michael Connelly. (Little, Brown, $21.99.) The Los Angeles detective Harry Bosch tangles with the F.B.I. and Homeland Security as he tries to solve the case of a murdered physicist with access to radioactive materials.	3		1	THE GOOD GUY, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $27.) In a case of mistaken identity, an ordinary man finds himself at the center of a murder plot.	4		29	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.	5	3	4	THE 6TH TARGET, by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) In San Francisco, children are disappearing, and Detective Lindsay Boxer and the Women's Murder Club investigate.	6	4	3	INVISIBLE PREY, by John Sandford. (Putnam, $26.95.) The Minneapolis detective Lucas Davenport finds connections between the murder of several elderly residents and a political scandal.	7	6	7	THE CHILDREN OF HARIN, by J. R. R. Tolkien. Edited by Christopher Tolkien. Illustrated by Alan Lee. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) In Middle-earth, an evil lord wants to destroy his rival's children.	8		1	SACRIFICE, by Karen Traviss. (Del Rey/Ballantine, $25.95.) Jacen, the son of Han and Leia Solo, must murder someone close to him to become a Sith lord; a ''Star Wars'' novel.	9	5	3	BAD LUCK AND TROUBLE, by Lee Child. (Delacorte, $26.) Jack Reacher must discover who is hunting down members of a team of former military investigators.	10	7	5	THE YIDDISH POLICEMEN'S UNION, by Michael Chabon. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) A detective investigates a neighbor's murder in a Jewish settlement in Alaska.	11	8	6	SIMPLE GENIUS, by David Baldacci. (Warner, $26.99.) Two former Secret Service agents investigate a scientist's murder while one battles her own demons.	12	12	13	NINETEEN MINUTES, by Jodi Picoult. (Atria, $26.95.) The aftermath of a high school shooting reveals the fault lines in a small New Hampshire town.	13*	9	5	RANT, by Chuck Palahniuk. (Doubleday, $24.95.) The ''oral biography'' of a serial killer.	14		1	LAWMAN, by Diana Palmer. (HQN, $24.95.) An F.B.I. agent discovers that the trail of the escaped child predator he is tracking leads in an unexpected direction.	15		2	FALLING MAN, by Don DeLillo. (Scribner, $26.) The effect of 9/11 on a middle-class Manhattan family.			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	NONFICTION	1	1	2	THE ASSAULT ON REASON, by Al Gore. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) How the Bush administration has degraded the political environment through secrecy, fear and the rejection of fact-based reasoning.	2	2	2	THE REAGAN DIARIES, by Ronald Reagan. Edited by Douglas Brinkley. (HarperCollins, $35.) Selections from the 40th president's daily White House diaries.	3	4	5	GOD IS NOT GREAT, by Christopher Hitchens. (Twelve, $24.99.) Religion as a malignant force in the world.	4	3	8	EINSTEIN, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon & Schuster, $32.) A biography based on newly released personal letters.	5	6	16	A LONG WAY GONE, by Ishmael Beah. (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) A former child soldier from Sierra Leone describes his drug-crazed killing spree and his return to humanity.	6	8	5	ANIMAL, VEGETABLE, MIRACLE, by Barbara Kingsolver with Steven L. Hopp and Camille Kingsolver. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) The novelist and her family spend a year eating homegrown or local food; an argument for sustainable agriculture.	7	5	4	PRESIDENTIAL COURAGE, by Michael Beschloss. (Simon & Schuster, $28.) Profiles of nine presidents who had the courage to make unpopular decisions.	8	7	3	JESUS OF NAZARETH, by Benedict XVI. (Doubleday, $24.95.) The pope discusses Jesus' identity as revealed in the Gospels.	9*	9	7	WHERE HAVE ALL THE LEADERS GONE?, by Lee Iacocca. (Scribner, $25.) The former C.E.O. of Chrysler protests the lack of political and business leadership on issues like health care and energy policy.	10	10	3	RICKLES' BOOK, by Don Rickles with David Ritz. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) A memoir by the insult comedian.	11	11	6	THE BLACK SWAN, by Nassim Nicholas Taleb. (Random House, $26.95.) The role of the unexpected.	12		1	THE CANON, by Natalie Angier. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) A refresher course on the fundamentals of science.	13	16	2	BROTHERS, by David Talbot. (Free Press, $28.) An assessment of John F. Kennedy's administration and a plea for a new effort to uncover the truth about his assassination.	14	14	4	TALES FROM Q SCHOOL, by John Feinstein. (Little, Brown, $26.99.) Inside the 2005 PGA Tour Qualifying Tournament, from the author of ''A Good Walk Spoiled.''	15		106	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 	16*		102	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to nearly everything.	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); LITERATURE (78%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); WRITERS (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (73%); BRITISH ROYALTY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); RELIGION (69%); SUICIDE (60%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: PRINCESS DIANA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (71%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (87%); POLAND (71%); AFGHANISTAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



320 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: An Inflation Hedge May Be Worth a Second Look

BYLINE: By NEIL A. O'HARA

 BODY:
THEY guarantee that your investment will be protected against inflation, but Treasury inflation-protected securities, known as TIPS, underperformed conventional Treasuries in 2005 and 2006.
 That may be changing. The real yield offered by TIPS -- the core yield, without factoring in the inflation adjustment -- is near a five-year high. With fears of inflation unsettling the bond and stock markets, TIPS may now be an attractive addition to many investors' portfolios.
 A few quirks about TIPS need to be understood when comparing these securities with conventional Treasuries.
 In exchange for inflation protection, TIPS, which were first issued in 1997, pay a lower coupon than other Treasury notes and bonds. They pay twice-a-year coupons, the way conventional Treasuries do, but there is a catch: the principal amount of TIPS varies over time to reflect increases or decreases in the urban Consumer Price Index. As long as inflation is positive, the principal grows -- and so do the coupon payments, which are calculated by applying the fixed coupon rate to whatever the principal is when an interest payment is due. In periods of deflation, the principal cannot fall below par -- its level when the security was issued. 
 TIPS also have a tax characteristic that investors should keep in mind. Although the inflation adjustment on the principal isn't actually paid until the bond matures, the federal government treats the principal accretion as income for tax purposes. Coupons are taxable, too, so investors won't see much cash in their pockets after paying tax on both amounts, although they won't owe any tax when the inflated principal is returned at maturity. 
 These unusual cash-flow characteristics make TIPS better suited to an Individual Retirement Account, 401(k) or other tax-deferred account. Alternatively, investors in taxable accounts can hold TIPS through mutual funds, which typically distribute in cash the principal adjustment at the end of each year as well as any coupon payments.
 There is another possible problem for the unwary: If the price index falls, previous positive adjustments start to erode. While investors are protected from loss of principal when they buy newly issued TIPS, they can incur losses if they go to the secondary market to buy seasoned TIPS that have significant accreted principal and prolonged deflation takes hold.
 Under these circumstances, investors still get the real yield they bargained for, but seasoned issues can expose investors to a risk of capital loss. ''The market doesn't assign a premium for newly minted TIPS, but in some respects it should,'' said Dan Shackelford, a vice president at T. Rowe Price who manages its New Income fund and its Inflation Protected Bond fund. Investors can avoid the risk if they participate in the Treasury's periodic auctions of 5-, 10- and 20-year TIPS, or buy in the secondary market soon after the date of issue.
 TIPS are sold in minimum denominations of $1,000, so for small investors Series I Savings Bonds may be a better bet. Available in denominations as small as $50 but limited to a maximum of $30,000 a person per calendar year, the Series I bonds earn a fixed coupon (currently 1.30 percent) and a twice-a-year inflation adjustment, in May and November. The annualized composite yield on bonds issued today is 3.74 percent. 
 Both the coupon and the inflation adjustment accrue to the principal amount paid at maturity, but although subject to federal income tax, the holder can defer tax payments until maturity. 
 As is the case with TIPS, the inflation adjustment for the I bonds can move both ways but the original principal is guaranteed. The I bonds are not transferable but can be redeemed after the first 12 months, though there is a penalty of three months' accrued interest if they are redeemed in the first five years.
 How are interest and principal payments calculated for TIPS? Suppose that an investor pays $100,000 at a Treasury auction for TIPS with a 2.5 percent coupon and the price index rises 1.5 percent over the next six months. The first of the year's two interest payments will be $1,268.75, half the 2.5 percent coupon rate applied to the principal, which has grown to $101,500. The TIPS coupon rate never changes, but coupon payments rise in lock step with increases in the principal amount. 
 Conventional Treasuries offer fixed returns, which may be higher or lower than the return on TIPS of the same maturity, depending on the inflation rate. For example, the yield on a 10-year conventional Treasury security is 5.16 percent, while the 10-year TIPS issue yields 2.73 percent. The difference -- 2.43 percentage points -- is the break-even spread. In other words, the return on the two securities will be identical if the annual inflation rate for the next 10 years is 2.43 percent. 
 ''If your expectations for inflation over the maturity are greater than that break-even inflation rate you would be better off owning the TIPS, and vice versa,'' said Anne Briglia, senior fixed-income strategist at UBS Wealth Management Research.
 At 2.43 percent, the current break-even is a far cry from the double-digit inflation rates in the late 1970s and early 1980s. While no one is predicting a return to those days, a combination of economic, geopolitical and demographic influences could push the inflation rate higher. Surging growth in China and India has already propelled commodity prices to record levels, persistent tensions in the Middle East could disrupt oil supplies and the impending retirement of the baby boomers may strain programs like Social Security and Medicare and raise the budget deficit, which could lead to a weaker dollar and higher prices for imported goods.
 TIPS look much more attractive today than they did at the end of 2004, when real yields hovered near historical lows, ranging from around 1 percent on the five-year version to 2 percent on the 20-year. Yields have since moved up and the real yield curve has flattened, for the most part, with five-year TIPS at 2.68 percent and the 20-year at 2.72 percent. 
 Mr. Shackelford suggests that a 2.5 percent real yield represents fair value; although real yields exceeded 3 percent in the years when TIPS were new and only a few issues were outstanding, he says he believes that those days are gone for good.
 Of course, no one knows the level of future inflation. But even if investors, especially retirees, believe that the Fed will keep a lid on inflation, they should still have some TIPS in their portfolios, according to John Brynjolfsson, a managing director of Pimco in Newport Beach, Calif., and portfolio manager of the Pimco Real Return fund. Most investors own financial assets that provide little or no protection against inflation -- and conventional bonds actually drop in value when inflation ticks up.
 ''All your objectives as a retiree are real,'' Mr. Brynjolfsson says, ''You want to buy a real car, lease or own a real house and take real airplane flights to visit your grandkids.''
 HOW much investors should hold in TIPS depends on many factors, including their age, risk tolerance and investment time horizon, according to Jack Malvey, chief global fixed-income strategist at Lehman Brothers.
 As a general guideline, he suggests that investors in their 20s start with just 2 percent to 5 percent of their fixed-income portfolio in TIPS and move up toward 15 percent to 20 percent by retirement age. 
 It's not a hard-and-fast rule, however. Individual circumstances will often justify a different allocation, but, Mr. Malvey says, ''it has become legitimate financial policy for individual investors to have some portion of their portfolio in inflation-linked securities.'' 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Playing It Safe'' The real yield of Treasury inflation-protected securities is near a five-year high. Graph tracks real yield of Treasury inflation-protected securities since 2003. (Source by U.S. Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); DEFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%); INTEREST RATES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



321 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: The Cranes Are Back, And So Are the Tenants

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

DATELINE: BELLEVUE, Wash. 

 BODY:
CONSTRUCTION cranes quickly disappeared from the skyline of this affluent city near Seattle, office vacancy rates shot up as high as 28 percent and developers postponed once-ambitious projects when the dot-com boom went bust six years ago. Bellevue had become a city where no developer seemed to want to be.
 ''Everything was too good to be true, and then reality came through,'' said Kemper Freeman, the president and chief executive of Kemper Development, one of Bellevue's largest land owners and developers.
But this city, whose fortunes rose and fell with those of the technology industry, has been staging a comeback. 
 Nowadays, a dozen or so construction cranes loom over work sites in Bellevue's downtown. Some 2.2 million square feet of office space, some of it speculative, and more than 2,500 apartments and condominiums are under construction, according to the Bellevue Downtown Association, a nonprofit group. Projects like Mr. Kemper's Lincoln Square, a 1.4-million-square-foot development with hotel rooms, condominiums, an office tower and a shopping mall, have been restarted and are near completion.
 Already, companies are planning to move into Bellevue, which is about 10 miles east of Seattle and, in the 2000 census, had a population of almost 110,000. Microsoft is expanding its offices here, while Eddie Bauer has chosen the city for its new headquarters and Neiman Marcus is opening its first Pacific Northwest store here.
 ''If you look at the companies leasing downtown, these aren't imaginary companies,'' said Matt Terry, the director of planning and community development for Bellevue, referring to some of the dot-com businesses that once set up headquarters in the city, then quickly folded. ''That speaks well for Bellevue's economic future, and that's very different from the past.'' 
 Bellevue was riding high in the late 1990s. Dot-com companies leased thousands of square feet of space, developers rolled out plans for as many as two dozen buildings, rents soared and vacancy rates fell to less than 2 percent. Then the national recession, combined with the dot-com implosion, sent the city's office market reeling. Some companies went under or shrank, while work on projects like Lincoln Square was halted.
 Those days now seem a hazy memory. Attracted by a resurgence in job growth, lofty rents and one of the lowest office vacancy rates in the country, developers have been streaming back to Bellevue. An affluent population, nearby freeways and plenty of land have also sweetened the city's appeal. 
 In the first quarter this year, office vacancy rates stood at 4.5 percent, among the lowest levels since 2000, according to a report released last month by Colliers International, a commercial real estate brokerage firm. The rate in Seattle, by comparison, was 9.3 percent in the first quarter. 
 Tom Woodworth, a senior investment director at Schnitzer West, a Bellevue developer, said he was not surprised by Bellevue's rebound. ''This is where the jobs are and where there's developable land,'' Mr. Woodworth said. 
 Schnitzer West had no tenants signed up last year when it began construction in downtown Bellevue on the Bravern, a 1.6 million-square-foot mixed-use complex with three floors of high-end retailers and 450 condominiums, and the Advanta Office Commons, three seven-story buildings east of downtown. 
 Local real estate brokers had privately questioned whether the company would be able to fill its space because of competing projects under construction. But Schnitzer proved the naysayers wrong in April, when Microsoft agreed to lease a total of 1.3 million square feet in the Bravern and Advanta. 
 The lease -- the biggest in the region, according to local real estate brokers -- made Microsoft the largest tenant downtown and gave Bellevue an added boost of confidence. Microsoft will start moving 4,000 new or existing employees into Advanta by year-end; it expects to move into the Bravern by the end of 2008. 
 Microsoft also has plans to take over 320,000 square feet in Lincoln Square, which is expected to be completed by this summer. Lou Gellos, a company spokesman, said Microsoft was halfway through an ambitious expansion program that will add a third more space, or 3.1 million square feet. The company has been running out of room at its crowded campus located nearby in Redmond. 
 Big leases have resurrected Bellevue's office market before. Equity Office Properties Trust, which once controlled about a third of the city's downtown office space, used cheap rents to attract Symetra Financial, a spinoff of Safeco Insurance, and drugstore.com to downtown Bellevue three years ago, a move that helped to kick-start the leasing market. Then Mr. Freeman persuaded Eddie Bauer to lease 200,000 square feet at Lincoln Square for its new headquarters. A building boom was born.
 Investors are also pouring money into the city. This year, there were $2.6 billion in real estate transactions, versus $34 million six years ago, according to Real Capital Analytics, a real estate consulting company. Sales prices have soared, to an average of $376 a square foot this year from $146 in 2001. In Seattle, prices average $364 a square foot, according to Real Capital. 
 Brickman Associates, a private equity firm based in New York, bought its first building in Bellevue last fall. The company won a bidding war for Civica Office Commons, a midrise office building, paying $175.7 million, or $575 a square foot. Only 18 months earlier, Civica had been sold by Schnitzer West for $462 a square foot, or around $141 million, to Investcorp, an investment company based in New York.
 ''Rents are really pushing in the right direction for landlords,'' said Michael Bernstein, an executive vice president and director of acquisitions at Brickman. ''We've seen a 10 percent rise in the last six months and we expect a material increase in the next six months.''
 RENTS in downtown Bellevue currently average $33.07 a square foot, compared with $29.29 in downtown Seattle, and are expected to climb even higher this year, according to Colliers. Gerding Edlen Development of Portland, Ore., has chosen Bellevue for its first project in Washington State, called Bellevue Towers. It will have 540 condos ranging from $400,000 for a studio to $10 million for a penthouse.
 Upscale retailers and restaurants have also started moving in. Neiman Marcus will open a store in Bellevue this fall; it will be the first in the Pacific Northwest for the company, which was attracted by the number of wealthy residents in the area, said Wayne Hussey, a senior vice president for store development at Neiman Marcus. For the area of King County east of Lake Washington, where Bellevue is located, the median household income was $82,228 last year, versus $57,378 in Seattle, according to Scarborough Research, a consumer research firm. 
 For its part, Bellevue is planning to build midblock crosswalks, plant more trees and start a free bus service that will circle the downtown, to help make it more pedestrian-friendly.
 These improvements, however, cannot seem to come fast enough for the local businesses. ''The fear is that the investment community will not stay and other areas will become more attractive,'' said Leslie Lloyd, president of the Bellevue Downtown Association. ''We want to make sure when the boom is past, the infrastructure is in place.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Bellevue, Wash., construction continues, above, on the Bellevue Towers, which will have 540 condos ranging from $400,000 to $10 million. Lincoln Square, at left, a 1.4-million-square-foot development where work was halted several years ago, is now near completion in the city. (Photographs by Peter Yates for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CENSUS (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); RETAILERS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); NORTHWEST USA (73%); WEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



322 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Debating the Benefits Of Wind Power

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 At a time when we as a state and nation need to be aggressively pursuing clean energy alternatives, Henry S. F. Cooper Jr. promotes coal and nuclear power plants in New York and dismisses the many benefits of wind power technology (''Idiot Wind,'' Op-Ed, June 3). 
The proposed Jordanville Wind Power Project will create enough clean, homegrown electricity to provide the annual power needs for more than 50,000 New York homes. That's 50,000 homes that will be powered without negatively affecting the environment; relying on foreign sources of oil; or putting even more strain on our existing power supply.
 And contrary to Mr. Cooper's assertion that wind farms decrease property values, a recent study by Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory found absolutely no impact on property values from wind farms.
 It's no secret that New York State will need significant additional power in coming years. But New Yorkers must make a choice between clean energy -- the right answer for our economy, for our environment, for our safety, and for New York -- and business as usual. Carol Murphy Executive Director, Alliance for Clean Energy New York Albany To the Editor:
 In ''Idiot Wind,'' Henry S. F. Cooper Jr. discusses the many negative effects wind farms will have on upstate New York. Almost all of his observations are apropos much closer to home with the planned Long Island Offshore Wind Park. 
 This ''farm'' will contain 40 huge turbines 3.5 miles off the coast of Jones Beach and Robert Moses State Park. The flicker effect, the noise (turbine whine and foghorns), the flashing lights, the bird and bat kills and the plummeting real estate values mentioned in the article are all just around the corner for Long Island if this project is put in place. 
 Long Islanders have an additional concern in that it has been concluded by many that the Long Island Power Authority rates will increase to help pay for this $600 million ''farm.'' How much will they increase? LIPA refuses to say. 
 Probably the most disheartening aspect of the wind farm is that it will desecrate the parks that are the icons of Long Island, loved and enjoyed by so many people.
 Mr. Cooper asks, ''Why then are we destroying large tracts of upstate New York in the name of an uncertain energy source?'' I ask the same question about the South Shore of Long Island. Richard Moore West Gilgo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (94%); WIND POWER PLANTS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); VANDALISM (69%); STATE PARKS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



323 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Christine Whelan, Peter Moyers

 BODY:
Christine B. Whelan, the daughter of Elizabeth M. Whelan and Stephen T. Whelan of New York, and Peter Rowe Moyers, the son of Katherine M. Moyers and John R. Moyers of Iowa City, were married yesterday at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. Msgr. Robert B. O'Connor, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony. 
 The bride, 29, will be keeping her name professionally. She is the author of ''Why Smart Men Marry Smart Women'' (Simon & Schuster, 2006). In August, she will become a visiting assistant professor of sociology at the University of Iowa. She graduated magna cum laude from Princeton. She received a master's degree and a Ph.D., both in economic and social history, from Oxford.
 Her father is a partner in the New York City law firm Thacher Proffitt & Wood, and a visiting lecturer on constitutional law at Princeton. Her mother, a public health specialist, is the president and a founder of the American Council on Science and Health, a nonprofit public health education organization in New York.
 The bridegroom, also 29, is a law clerk to Linda R. Reade, chief judge for the United States District Court for the Northern District of Iowa. He was until January an associate in the corporate reorganization group at the New York law firm Hughes Hubbard & Reed. He also graduated magna cum laude from Princeton. He received a law degree from Harvard.
 His mother is a chairwoman of the primary fund-raising campaign for the Iowa City Community School District Foundation. His father is a professor of anesthesia at the Roy J. and Lucille A. Carver College of Medicine at the University of Iowa, and an anesthesiologist at the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics.
 The bride, who met the bridegroom during the time she was researching her book, continues a family tradition by marrying at St. Patrick's. Her parents were married there in 1971; her grandparents Marion Barrett and Joseph Murphy, in 1942, and her great grandparents Catherine Murphy and Thomas Barrett, in 1913. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Kathi Littwin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); FAMILY (77%); WOMEN (77%); HISTORY (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); ANESTHESIOLOGY (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); RELIGION (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); WRITERS (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); JUDGES (66%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (51%); HOSPITALS (50%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: HUGHES HUBBARD & REED LLP (91%); THACHER PROFFITT & WOOD LLP (90%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (57%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON SCIENCE & HEALTH (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



324 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Campbell's Opportunity

 BODY:
Ever since 1869, when the fruit merchant Joseph Campbell shook hands on a deal that would establish one of the nation's food giants, the Campbell Soup Company has been a mainstay in Camden, a southern New Jersey city that has long since fallen on hard times. 
 Even as other businesses fled -- Campbell itself shut down a manufacturing plant in 1990 -- the company tried to breathe life into the town. In 1957, it opened a new corporate headquarters there; in 1970, it established the Campbell Museum, and in 1971, it built a new research complex. Long before anyone talked about corporate citizenship, Campbell was among Camden's most upstanding citizens. 
Now, as state and city planners struggle to give the town fresh momentum, the company can once again provide crucial support. Its proposal to spend $72 million to improve its headquarters and lure developers to a proposed adjacent office park would be a tremendous help.
 But the promise comes with a condition that runs counter to the company's well-deserved reputation for staying with Camden in good times and bad. Unless the city razes the 80-year-old Sears, Roebuck & Company store, which Campbell believes would clash with its glistening new headquarters and office park, Campbell says it may leave town altogether. This could severely damage Camden's hopes for a comeback. 
 We would urge Campbell to think again before risking its reputation for good citizenship and to explore other courses of action. One alternative would be to draw on the talent of noted architects and preservationists to work this historically significant building into its overall development plans.
 The building, located on a highway about a mile from Camden's downtown, is admittedly in poor shape. Sears left in 1971, and the structure has since been used as a car dealership and offices, and finally by the Camden Housing Authority. It is now vacant, with a hole in the roof and its front door gone. Campbell says it is an impediment to renewal. 
 Constructed in the classical revival style, and listed on the state and national historic registries, the building was one of the first stores designed to take advantage of the country's attachment to the automobile. Equipped with a 600-car parking lot, it lured shoppers from throughout South Jersey. Another reason the building is important to preservationists is that many of Camden's other significant buildings, including the Walt Whitman Hotel and several stately houses, have been torn down. 
 Campbell says the city should be looking toward its future, not its past, and many New Jersey officials believe that in this situation Campbell holds all the cards. The city, they say, simply cannot take the risk that Campbell and its 1,700 employees and contractors might pick up their marbles and leave.
 That is a risk, but Campbell would suffer a terrible black eye if it left. And it might face a lawsuit if it tore the building down. Campbell could avoid all this trouble by taking a more imaginative approach and blending the old building with the new. One Camden retailer has indicated he would invest $1 million to open a store and offices in the building and says he would like to work with the company. 
 Campbell is right when it says Camden must focus on the days ahead. But the city's comeback hopes will be even brighter if it can build on its past glory. After all, Campbell was part of that glory, too. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (62%); NEW CAR DEALERS (62%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (56%)

COMPANY: CAMPBELL SOUP CO (93%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (82%)

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (93%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



325 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: Gypsy Moth Damage on the Rise

BYLINE: By JENNIFER V. HUGHES

 BODY:
A record number of trees are expected to fall victim to gypsy moth caterpillars this year, according to the New Jersey Department of Agriculture, which predicts that 200,000 to 300,000 acres of trees will be defoliated by the pesky creatures. 
 ''We're definitely in a population spike,'' said Jeff Beach, a spokesman for the Agriculture Department. Defoliated trees can survive, he said, but if they are stripped several years in a row they will most likely die.
Last year about 125,000 acres of trees were defoliated, up from 44,000 acres in 2005. A dry spring has contributed to the problem this year, Mr. Beach said. During wet weather, a caterpillar-killing fungus thrives. 
 In an attempt to cut down on the number of caterpillars, the state conducted an aerial pesticide-spraying program about two weeks ago, covering about 60,000 acres in 11 counties. About half of the $1.5 million cost was picked up by the federal government, but Mr. Beach said that so far no federal money is included for the program in next year's budget. 
 Once the caterpillars emerge as moths, they no longer pose a threat, Mr. Beach said. After that, the state's next step is to try to determine, by air, where the moths lay eggs so officials can know where to spray for caterpillars next year. 
 In addition to the state's program, Monmouth County uses its own helicopter to cover more than 3,200 acres with pesticide, said Gary Lovallo, superintendent of the county's Shade Tree Commission. Losing trees is more than an aesthetic and environmental problem, he said. 
 ''You have serious economic consequences,'' he said. ''Someone has to pay to remove those dead and dangerous trees.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: THEY'RE BACK A gypsy moth caterpillar feasting in Trenton on Tuesday. (Photo by Mel Evans/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PESTICIDES (78%); BUDGETS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



326 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-12 1996 Poisoning Case Unheeded The same regulatory failings that led a Chinese-made poisonous drug ingredient, exported as pharmaceutical-grade glycerin, to kill at least 100 people in Panama last year allowed another drug ingredient from China to kill dozens of Haitian children a decade ago, memorandums show. 1 U.S. Push on Al Qaeda in Iraq With the influx of tens of thousands of additional combat troops into Iraq complete, American forces have begun a major new offensive against Al Qaeda insurgents based on the outskirts of Baghdad, the top American commander in Iraq said. 1 Hooded gunmen blew up a second Sunni mosque in the southern city of Basra in two days, after ordering police at the mosque to flee and despite a curfew imposed by Iraq's central government, witnesses and security officials said. 
 8 Fatah Control in West Bank The Fatah Palestinian faction, crushed in Gaza, moved to consolidate control over the West Bank, seizing public buildings and preparing to swear in a new government that did not include its rival, Hamas. 4 Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said Israel would cooperate fully with a Fatah government. 4 Kabul Suicide Blast Kills 5 A suicide bomber driving a taxi set off his explosives near a convoy of United States civilian contractors and accompanying soldiers, killing himself and four bystanders, the Kabul police said. 10 NATIONAL 14-21 Regretting That Tattoo Tattoo removal stores are part of a growing industry catering to people who may not have thought about the implications of ''forever'' the first time around. 1 Charity's Homes Faulted Some owners of homes built by Habitat for Humanity in Jacksonville, Fla., are having problems with their houses and say they fear that the blitz construction was shoddy and that their land, adjacent to two former town dumps, is unstable or contaminated. 14 Major Renewal in Baltimore Four hundred families are awaiting relocation in Baltimore as workers clear part of a 100-acre site for the largest planned urban renewal in the country. 16 Land Battle in Kentucky Families in Kentucky say they have been cheated out of an agreement to buy back land that the government told them to vacate during World War II and denied a stake in a government windfall: the discovery of enormous deposits of gas and oil. 16 NEW YORK/REGION 25-30 Giuliani and the Firefighters While it might seem easy to assume that after Sept. 11 Rudolph W. Giuliani could count on the support of the 11,000 men and women of the New York City Fire Department in his quest for the presidency, interviews with more than 50 city firefighters and officers show a mix of admiration and disdain for the former mayor. 1 Chess 30 Weather 20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POISONINGS (90%); AL FATAH (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); BOMBINGS (77%); AL-QAEDA (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); HAMAS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); WITNESSES (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); SUICIDE (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (64%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); JAMA'AT AL-TAWHID WAL-JIHAD (AL-QAIDA IN IRAQ) (57%); HAMAS (55%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (56%); RUDY GIULIANI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (93%); CHINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



327 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3410 words

HEADLINE: Can You Be Too Fashionable?

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON and MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
STANDING with her back to a room full of Kohl's department store executives in a Manhattan studio, Vera Wang reviewed prototypes from an exclusive new collection of mainstream fashion that Kohl's plans to sell under her name. ''This is all black,'' said Ms. Wang, dismissively. ''Black is very '90s.''
 Later, Julie Gardner, a marketing executive for the Kohl's chain, described the meeting as an epiphany of sorts -- a moment when she realized that much of what she had assumed to be fashionable was, in fact, out of date. ''We were hanging on her every word,'' Ms. Gardner recalled. ''We all looked down and we were all wearing black from head to toe.''
Kohl's, based in the pastoral haven of Menomonee Falls, Wis., is a retailer that sells clothes to the masses, a far cry from the trendy New York image of Ms. Wang, who is best known as a designer of exquisite -- and often very expensive -- bridal gowns. So aesthetic tension is to be expected. But with its introduction of Ms. Wang's new cut-rate collections coming in September, Kohl's has been uncommonly deferential on matters of style to someone more accustomed to Madison Avenue boutiques than suburban strip malls. 
 Even so, as it tries to recast itself as a department store that offers not only affordable fashion but a dash of style as well, Kohl's intends to make Ms. Wang the public face of its reinvention. For her part, Ms. Wang says that her relationship with Kohl's is more than a marriage of convenience. Like many successful entrepreneurs before her, she has reached a crossroads: her business has grown so rapidly and in so many directions that she lacks the resources -- especially cash -- to keep expanding it on her own. 
 ''I know actors always say, 'I'm just grateful that I get to continue doing what I love most,' but for actors their tool is themselves and their talent -- designers need a lot more help,'' Ms. Wang says. ''We need money. We need infrastructure, design talent, promotional budgets. We need a lot more to play in the sandbox, so to speak. Because of that, every decision I have ever made has been motivated by staying alive and keeping the doors open with the employees that I have.
 ''I'm not being overly dramatic,'' she adds. ''I'm being really truthful.''
 Given the disastrous performance over the last year of Wal-Mart Stores' version of inexpensive designer fashion -- with a collection called ''George M.E.'' by the lesser-known designer Mark Eisen -- the union of Kohl's and Ms. Wang is a gamble. But democratized style and cheap chic peddled by famous names has already found a successful niche, whether it's Martha Stewart at Kmart or Isaac Mizrahi at Target. Long lines for the latest Karl Lagerfeld, Stella McCartney or Viktor & Rolf designs at H&M, or Vivienne Westwood shoes for Nine West at Macy's, or for offerings from budding designers making clothes for Gap and Uniqlo, have helped midmarket stores increase sales and gain more cachet with consumers.
 On the other hand, there have been notable blunders besides that at Wal-Mart, which said its weakness in fashion had crimped its recent sales. Kohl's itself made a modest attempt to move away from its classic looks four years ago, but customers balked at designs like moose-themed shirts. Sales of its new cosmetic lines by Estee Lauder, repackaged as ''American Beauty'' in Kohl's stores, have disappointed analysts.
 By making a long-term commitment to Kohl's, Ms. Wang may be navigating even more dangerous waters. Many high-end designers fear that creating mass collections undermines their prestige among affluent customers, a worry rooted in the classic example of the downfall of Halston, the designer of sexy jersey gowns for the Studio 54 set: in the 1980's, luxury retailers dropped his collection after Halston signed a deal for a cheaper line with J. C. Penney.
 But Kohl's and Ms. Wang are plowing ahead -- boldly so, by the look of their collection. Called ''Simply Vera -- Vera Wang,'' it includes the designer's high-end signatures (or what fashionistas politely call ''directional'' designs), which may be challenging for a broader audience. Among the offerings are an inky black jacquard bubble skirt with an elasticized hem ($98), a charcoal knit cap the size of a chef's toque ($25) and an ash-colored ribbed wool coat with short sleeves ($128). 
 A short-sleeve coat? At Kohl's? Well, yes, says Kevin Mansell, Kohl's president.
 ''When we launch these brands, often there are questions either on the investor or media side of 'How do you know it's going to be good?' '' he says. ''They say, 'Vera Wang at Kohl's seems more of a stretch,' 'It's the next step up' and 'Why do you feel so confident?' The reason is, we do a ton of research.''
 As negotiations over a deal with Ms. Wang stretched out over more than a year, Kohl's surveyed consumers about their perceptions of the designer and their expectations for the proper price and quality of her collections. ''This is not like putting up dartboards, throwing darts and seeing which ones stick,'' Mr. Mansell says. ''This is really based on quantitative research.'' 
 For Ms. Wang, however, it is also about something much more personal.
 ''This is more about keeping my business going so I can continue to do what I love most,'' she says.
 AT 57, Vera Wang has worked in the fashion industry for 37 years -- longer if you count her college summers as a sales associate at Yves Saint Laurent on Madison Avenue -- first as an assistant and an editor at Vogue magazine and then as an accessories designer for Ralph Lauren. She started her signature company in 1990. 
 She grew up in Manhattan, in an apartment on an expensive block of the Upper East Side. There, her father, C. C. Wang, the son of a former war minister under Chiang Kai-shek, who made a fortune in pharmaceutical sales to China, discouraged her from pursuing a fashion career. After studying at Sarah Lawrence College in Yonkers, N.Y., and at the Sorbonne in Paris, Ms. Wang asked her father to allow her to take fashion courses in New York, but he refused. ''He said, 'If you really think you're that good, go get a job.' And I did; I went to Vogue,'' she recalls.
 In her late 30s, Ms. Wang went to work for Mr. Lauren and discovered that she loved to design. When she spotted a woman carrying a plaid tote she had made, Ms. Wang said she started ''jumping up and down.'' At 40, she married Arthur Becker, a technology executive. Only then, sensing that Ms. Wang had demonstrated that her interest in fashion was sincere, did her father agree to finance her own fashion collection -- with the condition that she design bridal dresses.
 ''What I haven't said before is that when my father suggested that I go into the bridal business, I had lost that desire really to go off on my own by then,'' says Ms. Wang, whose father died in September. ''This had been a dream for me since I lived in Paris, but my father wouldn't do it. He wouldn't pay for it. He wouldn't help me. I had been in the business 21 years by then.''
 But once Ms. Wang got started, she quickly made her mark. She became widely known in the 1990's for modernizing bridal design, which had traditionally been dominated by billowing poufs and antique lace and ignored by serious designers. Sharon Stone and Mariah Carey have been among the brides in Ms. Wang's gowns, the most elaborate of which can cost $15,000 to $30,000. Jennifer Lopez ordered a Vera Wang dress, but never wore it, during her derailed engagement to the actor Ben Affleck, then borrowed another for her marriage to the singer Marc Anthony in 2004.
 Ms. Wang's frequent television appearances, often commenting on red-carpet fashion, as well as heavy magazine coverage of celebrities wearing her gowns, made her a household name and made her designs synonymous with stylish weddings. She developed the core of her bridal business with slightly less expensive dresses -- the simplest currently start at around $3,000 -- and a lucrative roster of licensed products like china, crystal and bedding that are geared toward bridal registries.
 Last year, she says, products bearing her name, including a successful fragrance, had retail sales of $300 million (although Ms. Wang receives only a small fraction of that amount, probably in the range of 5 to 10 percent, through royalties). But her real passion, on which she has focused for the last four years, is women's fashion -- apart from bridal. 
 Her nonbridal aesthetic may best be described as ballerina grunge. She is fond of intentionally frayed hems and raw edges, and complicated silhouettes of slim bodysuits worn under oversized layers of heavy knits. A professional ice skater as a child, Ms. Wang later developed passions for art, dance and ballet that routinely influence her work, with colors that are almost always rendered in muddy, somber shades -- in contrast with the cheerier bridal designs that she felt had handcuffed her creatively. She once designed an entire collection around the theme of the raw, down-and-dirty HBO Western series ''Deadwood.''
 Ms. Wang says that her more recent fashion endeavors have been much more expensive for her to finance and support than her bridal line -- it costs her about $10 million a year to finance just the fashion line -- and that is what led her into Kohl's arms. Sitting at a conference table in her design studio on 39th Street, near Seventh Avenue, wearing a jacket with inverted pleats on capped sleeves, she speaks pragmatically about that decision: the risk of devaluing her trademark was outweighed by the resources and business expertise that Kohl's brings to the partnership. 
 ''I didn't spend 20 years going to Harvard Business School and then Morgan Stanley,'' she says. ''I spent 20 years styling clothes.''
 From a branding perspective, Ms. Wang has much at stake. In a recent survey of 1,500 consumers with an average net worth of $3 million, the Luxury Institute, a research firm that tracks designer brands, found that the exclusivity of Ms. Wang's name was tied with Hermes -- a fashion house so prestigious that only its best customers are invited to the seasonal sales that female customers covet. (The survey did not take Ms. Wang's deal with Kohl's into account). 
 ''She has been very focused on the high end for a long time, so it actually concerns me that she is doing a Mizrahi,'' says Milton Pedraza, the chief executive of the Luxury Institute. ''It may not affect the prestige of Vera Wang, but if you're a betting person, if a brand becomes ubiquitous, how exclusive can it be?''
 But Ms. Wang says consumers' desire to find better-designed fashion and home lines at mass retailers, fed by media attention for lines like Mr. Mizrahi's at Target, justified her decision to design for class and mass. (A person familiar with the Target design program said Mr. Mizrahi's merchandise has become a $100 million business there.) Ms. Wang says she plans to use the proceeds from her contract with Kohl's to finance new stores for her signature line in New York and Los Angeles, which she hopes will reduce the possibility of a Halston-like fate.
 Still, some fallout has already occurred. Macy's, a major Kohl's competitor, carries several home and intimate apparel lines that bear Ms. Wang's name, aimed at the upper echelon of department store customers and bridal registries.
 Wanting exclusivity, Terry J. Lundgren, the chief executive of Federated, Macy's parent company, dropped Ms. Wang's lingerie line after she signed with Kohl's. (Alas, Mr. Lundgren's wife wore a Vera Wang wedding dress down the aisle in 2005.) 
 LINDA PAYNE, a 48-year-old nurse with a Vogue-like sense of style, is ecstatic that Vera Wang is coming to the Kohl's store in a Paramus, N.J., mall. ''I love Vera Wang,'' she said in a parking-lot interview outside the store. ''Her gowns are outrageous. My girlfriend just found one of her dresses on discount for her daughter's prom.''
 But another customer, who would not give her name as she headed into Kohl's with a teenage daughter in tow, perused a catalog of Ms. Wang's clothing and deemed all of it to be a bad fit for her.
 ''It's too over the top,'' she said. ''I couldn't imagine wearing that in my construction office. This is not 'mom' clothing. I would not wear that to work, or to a P.T.A. meeting, so where would I wear that?''
 Such is the finicky -- and often unpredictable -- customer base that Kohl's and Ms. Wang are trying to crack. The partnership represents the first time that Kohl's will offer a product line bearing the imprint of a high-class, high-gloss Seventh Avenue designer, and is the piece de resistance of the retailer's image overhaul. While it has spent much of its 35-year-history courting middle-income Americans -- and intends to continue doing exactly that -- it wants to give its customers a broader, more stylized range of choices.
 ''We're not going to be the person to bring fashion first,'' says Mr. Mansell, the Kohl's president. ''But I think we can bring fashion very close after that and at a much better value and in a much more efficient way.''
 Selling fashion by a renowned designer is a far reach for a mass retailer that, in the beginning, was never supposed to sell clothes. Max Kohl, a Polish immigrant, opened his first grocery store in Milwaukee in 1946 and turned it into the largest food chain in Wisconsin. In 1962 -- the same year that Wal-Mart, Target and Kmart opened their doors -- Mr. Kohl started selling clothes the same way he sold food. Instead of finding a traditional department store layout, customers found shopping carts, doorside checkout counters, big price stickers on the racks and a wide circular lane at the center of the store. 
 Today, Kohl's offers more sophisticated layouts and merchandising, and since 2002 has introduced exclusive brands like Daisy Fuentes, Chaps, Tony Hawk and Apt. 9 that speak to different demographics, like teenagers or working moms. But it still is well aware of who shops there. Having closely monitored the successes and failures of competitors banking on the prestige of name designers, Kohl's says it is sensitive to the perils of moving its fashion threshold so far forward, possibly beyond the expectations of customers who rely on it as a neighborhood destination for a quick purchase of sneakers, a dress or everyday work-friendly attire
 Still, the company says that survey after survey has shown that its customers, who are increasingly fashion savvy, adore Ms. Wang and expect more style and higher prices in a collection she would design for Kohl's. 
 The biggest challenge in designing for Kohl's, Ms. Wang said, was adjusting to the concept of producing fewer styles in greater quantities. She is a perfectionist who has occasionally tossed out bolts of extravagantly treated lace and chiffon that did not meet her expectations. She and her design team typically create 300 to 400 designs for a season but select only about 55 to present to the media and to stores just before her runway show, ultimately discarding the rest. It is a wasteful process, but one that allows Ms. Wang to show only the best of her work each season. 
 For Kohl's, her average monthly delivery will consist of 20 pieces, which need to be mapped out months in advance. 
 ''I wasn't used to being very, very merchandise-focused -- to have to choose and make the right decision and then be able to put it back together on the floor as a collection,'' Ms. Wang says. ''I couldn't just say, 'Here's a sequin dress and here's a little short skirt.' They would say, 'You have five skirts, Vera,' and then we had to choose together which are the best five.''
 Ms. Wang began meeting with a team of Kohl's designers in October, when she assembled some of her most popular designs from previous seasons, her favorite handbags and her jewelry collection. There was an oversize satchel made of white snakeskin, and necklaces and charms with early Russian Empire and Japanese influences. To brighten the line of black clothing that Kohl's designers had shown her, she persuaded the company to add some more unexpected designs, like a skirt in gold brocade.
 ''Kohl's went, 'Yikes,' '' she says. '' 'Vera, this is for nearly 1,000 stores. You can't just start throwing things in,' like I do on collection.''
 But in limited quantities, the skirt was added, looking nearly identical to one shown in her fall runway collection that will cost $890 when it arrives in stores like Bergdorf Goodman and Louis Boston. The Kohl's version will be $68.
 For his part, Mr. Mansell is bemused by any concerns that Simply Vera is ''too fashion.'' The bigger issue, he says, is ensuring a proper balance of contemporary and classic clothes.
 ''Kohl's was way too heavily weighted to very classic and traditional styling,'' he says. ''We were doing a disservice to our customer because we were duplicating so many things in either different brands and labels or at the same price point.'' 
 To make way for Simply Vera, Kohl's reduced its stock of labels with older names like Villager and Sag Harbor, and it dropped the Norton McNaughton label.
 Kohl's leaves pricier megabrands -- Tommy Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren and Nautica -- to traditional department stores like Macy's, Bon-Ton and Dillard's. Mr. Mansell says that the retailing environment is just as competitive and cutthroat as ever, and that Kohl's wants to remain out front.
 Kohl's has also benefited from the troubled consolidation wave that has swept over American department stores, high and low. The 2005 merger of Federated Department Stores and May Department Stores, and Macy's absorption of many historical local nameplates, have turned off many mall shoppers. The combination of Kmart and Sears has not done much for the image of either chain.
 ''Other than inflation, the pie essentially isn't getting any bigger,'' Mr. Mansell says. ''It's all market share and we are trying to attack market share wherever we see weakness.'' 
 Growth in Kohl's sales, profits and number of stores has coincided with the exclusive brands strategy. Last year, sales were $15.5 billion, up from $7.5 billion in 2001. The company's profits more than doubled over the same period, to $1.1 billion from $458 million. It has also doubled the number of stores it operates -- to 834 from 382 -- all at a time when overall clothing sales have languished. Kohl's may be smaller than Macy's and J. C. Penney, but by one closely watched measure in retailing, it beats both of them. Last year, Kohl's sold $224 for every square foot of space in its store, compared with $171 for Macy's and $166 for J. C. Penney, according to A. G. Edwards. 
 ''Kohl's has built a significantly better mousetrap,'' says Bill Dreher, a retail analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. 
 KOHL'S also intends to increase the size of its average sales transaction. Its five-year-old roster of exclusive brands, which are displayed prominently in various departments, now accounts for 8 percent of its annual sales. By adding Simply Vera and a Food Network-branded collection of housewares this fall, Kohl's believes that it can increase exclusive brands' share of its sales to 10 percent.
 ''We get more visits to our stores than our competitors, which is not surprising because they are more convenient and closer to neighborhoods,'' Mr. Mansell says. The average sale is for $50, and about half of customers buy items from only one department.
 ''A very small percentage of consumers on a visit buy something in women's apparel and, in the same visit, buy something in women's accessories,'' Mr. Mansell says. ''And they're right across the aisle.''
 By placing Ms. Wang's designs in multiple areas of the store, Kohl's wants shoppers to explore -- and shop -- in more departments. Ms. Wang herself says she shops at Kohl's. She has two daughters, 13 and 16, who buy cargo shorts there by the armload. ''Listen, I've been in Sports Authority, P. C. Richard's and Barnes & Noble,'' she offers. ''That's my other life.'' Prices for luxury fashion keep going up, to the point that Ms. Wang said it is a major achievement to sell 250 pieces of any one style from her high-fashion collection.
 She says that ''$3,000 is the new $1,000, and $6,000 is the new $3,000,'' adding: ''Actually, maybe $10,000 is the new $3,000. The truth of it is, it can be very frustrating when you have built up some degree of a name in this country and not be able to dress more people.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Models in Vera Wang's lower-priced line, which will be in Kohl's stores in September. (Photo by Kelly Shimoda for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Vera Wang, above right, with a model. Another design is at far right. Ms. Wang said her Kohl's alliance will help her keep her own business going. (Photographs by Kelly Shimoda for The New York Times)
Some designs from Vera Wang's pricier line for fall 2007. These clothes won't be on Kohl's racks. (Photo by Stuart Ramson/Associated Press)(pg. 8)
 More glimpses at the direction of Kohl's. The company says it has been weighed down by conservative fashions but hopes its new Vera Wang line is a step toward repositioning itself. (Photographs by Kelly Shimoda for The New York Times)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BUDGETS (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (66%); SUBURBS (65%)

COMPANY: KOHL'S DEPARTMENT STORES INC (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



328 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: A Regional Approach To Economic Growth

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 In ''Cut and Run'' (Op-Ed, June 3), Jon Shure asserts that New Jersey is not well served by the subsidy policies the state employs to attract and retain businesses. Offsets in revenue do not yield promised gains. 
 ''The better way to build an economy,'' he maintains, is to invest in ''roads, mass transit, schools, worker training,'' which will be ''there to pay dividends long after fickle companies split for the next great deal.''
I agree.
 A regional approach to economic development, moreover, can outwit the contenders at their own game. Neighboring states, counties, cities and communities can plan regionally to attract (and retain) companies that provide employment and generate tax revenues. 
 Using tax formulas that don't pit entities against one another but encourage sharing tax revenues can benefit the parts and the whole particularly by investing in the infrastructure to sustain a vibrant economy.
 This is not pie-in-the-sky planning. Other areas in the nation have planned regionally and taxed accordingly. 
 Sharing tax revenues, in fact, has led to cooperation on other cross-border issues. New Jersey ought to explore how to make that approach work here. Linda Stamato New Brunswick The writer is co-director, Center for Negotiation and Conflict Resolution, Rutgers University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (72%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



329 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths CLIGGOTT, RICHARD T., SR.

 BODY:
 CLIGGOTT--Richard T., Sr., founder of Cliggott Publishing Company and a pioneer in the medical publishing world died at his home in Greenwich, CT, June 9th with his wife, Janet at his side. In 1970, Mr. Cliggott led a group of investors in the purchase of ''Consultant Magazine'' from Smith Kline and French to create Cliggott Publishing. From the start, Cliggott Publishing produced original, peer reviewed articles written by physicians for the purpose of advancing medical practice. 
Cliggott Publishing set the standard for editorial integrity and excellence. Soon after the inception of the company, three other journals were launched, the ''Journal of Respiratory Diseases'', the ''Journal of Musculoskeletal Medicine'' and the ''Journal of Critical Illness'', as well as a series of independently sponsored journals. Born in Andover, MA, April 14, 1928, Mr. Cliggott grew up on the Cape in Cotuit, MA. As a young boy during the depression years on Cape Cod, Mr. Cliggott helped support his family by working on farms doing everything from bailing hay to exercising horses. Upon graduation from Barnstable High he joined the Army, serving two years in Korea earning the rank of Master Sergeant. After the army he attended Worcester Academy. Worcester is where he developed his abilities to achieve in both academics and athletics. Mr. Cliggott devoted his life to the school motto, ''Achieve the Honorable'' He became driven to use his intellect, discipline and work ethic to become successful and make his family proud of him. Worcester Academy led Mr. Cliggott to Cornell University on an academic scholarship. For his leadership both in the classroom and on the athletic field he was admitted into the Honorary Quill & Dagger Society. While at Cornell, Mr. Cliggott played varsity baseball and football and in 1953 made Honorable Mention All American in football. During his summer months, Mr. Cliggott was a star player for the Cotuit Kettlers in the Cape Cod summer baseball league. Mr. Cliggott graduated from Cornell in 1953 and worked for the university in their development office. He left Cornell in 1955 and worked for Procter and Gamble where he received his sales and management training. In 1959, Medical Economics of Oradell, NJ hired him and introduced Mr. Cliggott to medical publishing. From 1970-1996 Mr. Cliggott developed Cliggott Publishing into one of America's most admired and respected medical publishing companies. In 1996, Mr. Cliggott sold the company and retired. Mr. Cliggott and his wife of 56 years, Janet, divided their time between their homes in Tequesta, FL and Greenwich, CT. An avid sportsman and outdoorsman, he loved golfing, boating, fishing, hunting and bird watching. Mr. Cliggott was a member of Cornell University's Laboratory Ornithology and the Cornell Plantation. As president of Greenwich Country Club he helped oversee the redesign of the golf course into a competitively challenging course. Mr. Cliggott was a true gentleman and a wonderful story teller with a great sense of humor. He was generous, always taking the time to make those he cared about feel appreciated by him. He was respected and admired by everyone whose lives he touched. Most of all he was devoted to his wife and loved spending time with his children and grandchildren. He is survived by his wife, Janet, his children and their families; Nancy and Bill Hansen and their children Bill, Ricky, and Joe; Dick Jr. and Monica Cliggott and their children Tom and James; Michael and Holly Cliggott and their son Andrew; Patricia and Doug Kent, and Tim Cliggott. In lieu of flowers the family requests memorial donations to be made to Worcester Academy, Cornell University Plantations, or the Cornell University School of Ornithology 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ETHICS (75%); BASEBALL (70%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (70%); SPORTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (63%); GOLF (62%); BIRDING (60%); BIRDS (60%); ORNITHOLOGY (60%); SALES TRAINING (50%)

COMPANY: CLIGGOTT PUBLISHING CO (94%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



330 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Investing Your Way Out of Poverty

BYLINE: By Rourke L. O'Brien. 
Rourke L. O'Brien is a policy analyst at the New America Foundation.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
THE mayor of New York's new antipoverty plan, which is scheduled to begin in the fall, will pay as much as $5,000 a year to poor families to help them meet specific goals like getting regular medical checkups, holding down full-time jobs and attending parent-teacher conferences. 
 Experience in developing countries shows that such ''conditional cash transfer'' programs are effective in combating poverty. Those who participate wind up with better education, health and life prospects than those who don't. Such a program in Mexico -- the initial inspiration for Mayor Michael Bloomberg's plan -- has had particular success in improving the health of participating children. 
But for this initiative to work in the United States, Mayor Bloomberg must adapt his plan to the needs and realities of low-income New Yorkers.
 For starters, the city needs to avoid creating another bureaucracy that would eat up money that should go directly to families. Not only should the additional bureaucracy be as lean as possible, the existing service system must be streamlined to ensure that families have access to medical services and job training. Participation in the program should be accompanied by comprehensive information about existing government services and job training opportunities for which individuals in the program may qualify. The city must ensure that these families are taking full advantage of all the services they qualify for and that the additional money isn't used to secure services that the government already provides.
 Evidence from developing countries suggests that conditional cash transfers succeed in promoting better economic behavior only when families have access to the services they need. It may seem like a simple point, but a cash incentive for someone to attend classes in, say, auto repair is ineffective if he does not have access to such a course in his community. 
 What's more, cash transfers must be accompanied by some basic financial education so that these families know how to save the money, how to manage their debt and how to set long-term financial goals. 
 Mayor Bloomberg has already made financial education a priority in creating the Office of Financial Empowerment, which operates out of the Department of Consumer Affairs, but outreach is vital to ensuring the city's poorest residents understand how to manage their money. 
 Thousands of low-income New Yorkers live without access to financial institutions, in part because few banks build branches in low-income neighborhoods. As a result, they pay bills and cash checks through fringe financial institutions that typically charge high fees and push predatory products like payday loans. All recipients in a cash transfer program should be required to have a checking account at a federally insured bank. City employees should assist participants in opening these accounts and the money should be transferred through direct deposit. 
 More important, the city must ensure that the money families earn through the program doesn't disqualify them for benefits like food stamps. A family of three can earn a maximum of $22,321 a year and still qualify for assistance, but if the cash transfer is added to this amount, many families will become ineligible and be forced to use the transfer to replace money lost in government assistance. No family can get ahead making less than $25,000 a year, especially in New York. And if families are prudent enough to save cash transfers for long-term goals like buying a house or going to college, those savings should be excluded from the asset limit when determining eligibility for public assistance.
 Asset limits in public assistance programs present a clear disincentive to save; undermining much of the program's potential to move families toward economic self-sufficiency. The program's financial incentives will be lost if every dollar a family earns is accompanied by a corresponding loss in public benefits. 
 Instead of limits, the city should provide incentives for families to invest the money they receive through the program in ''productive assets'' like studying for their nursing license at the City University of New York or starting a day-care service out of their homes. Families in the Mexican program who invested about a quarter of all cash transfers into a productive asset increased their standard of living by about 24 percent after six years in the program. 
 Finally, as this initiative expands, the mayor should consider investing a portion of the cash transfers directly into banking accounts set up for children in the program. By doing this, these children could tap into the money when they reach adulthood, allowing them to achieve economic independence as adults.
 As a businessman, Mayor Bloomberg understands that the fiscal health of an individual, as for any corporation, is measured not by annual income, but by net worth. With the proper incentives, his antipoverty program can do more than encourage low-income New Yorkers to attain higher levels of education, job skills and physical health. Indeed, it can provide poor New Yorkers with their own financial nest eggs, and allow them to become productive, taxpaying citizens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (66%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



331 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Rell Orders Inspections Of Trees on Parkways

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
Gov. M. Jodi Rell ordered the State Department of Transportation last Monday to set up tree inspections along the Merritt and Wilbur Cross Parkways after a New York couple were killed last weekend when a tree fell on their car on the Merritt in Westport.
 The driver, Joseph J. Stavola, 46, and his wife, Jeanne C. Serocke, 44, of Pelham, were killed as they were traveling south near Exit 42 about 9:15 p.m. on June 9, said Lt. J. Paul Vance, a state police spokesman. 
 Lieutenant Vance said the couple's children, whose names and ages were not given, were taken to Norwalk Hospital, where they were treated for nonlife-threatening injuries.
 Mrs. Rell's order came at the request of Westport's first selectman, Gordon F. Joseloff, who said last Tuesday that another tree fell on the parkway in the same area on May 5, but did not cause any injuries.
 ''I asked her to take a look to see if there's anything that we're not doing that we could be doing,'' he said. 
 Adam Liegot, a spokesman for the governor, said that while the transportation department regularly inspects trees along the two highways, ''this incident clearly shows that more needs to be done.''
 Kevin Nursick, a spokesman for the transportation department, said the tree that fell last weekend was a white pine that was two feet in diameter with a trunk that was 33 feet from the shoulder of the road. ''There were no overt signs that it was compromised structurally,'' he said.
 Mr. Nursick said the department had 850 maintenance workers who every day look for potential problems, including hazardous trees, along state roads. He said about 200 trees have been cut down along the Merritt in the last year and a half. Clairol to Leave Plant In Stamford by 2010 
 Clairol's manufacturing plant in Stamford, which has made hair coloring products since 1940, will close by early 2010, the company announced June 7.
 Brent Miller, a spokesman for Proctor & Gamble, which owns Clairol, said the company was downsizing.
 ''We've decided to focus on fewer and bigger sites,'' he said. ''We have operations all over the world, and as a global company, we have to look at where we can generate the most efficiency in scale.''
 There are 615 people working at the Stamford plant, with 415 on the production line and the rest in administrative jobs, Mr. Miller said. He said the administrative workers would be given the opportunity to transfer to other Proctor & Gamble offices.
 Mr. Miller said most of the production jobs would be eliminated. He said those workers losing their jobs would be offered severance packages. He said about 180 of the workers would be eligible for retirement.
 Stamford's mayor, Dannel P. Malloy, said Clairol's departure was part of the final phase of the city's transition from manufacturing to other types of industries. He said it would not have an impact on the city's economy.
 ''You feel bad for people who are losing their jobs,'' he said. ''But we're bringing in more companies than those that are closing; more jobs are coming than leaving.''
 Proctor & Gamble plans to sell the 30-acre plant on the city's East Side, Mr. Miller said. ''It's really prime real estate in Stamford,'' he said.
 Mr. Miller said the city had treated the company well. ''We look forward to how we can best support the community for the next two and a half years and get to the best possible outcome that we can come to,'' he said. Trains to Meadowlands Planned for 2009 
 Giants and Jets fans in the state will be able to take a train to games at the Meadowlands starting in 2009.
 The State Department of Transportation announced last Monday that it was working with Amtrak, Metro-North and New Jersey Transit to provide train service from New Haven to the Meadowlands in East Rutherford, N.J., for Giants and Jets home games in two years. 
 Under the plan, the trains would use Metro-North tracks to reach New Rochelle, then switch to Amtrak tracks for the trip into Pennsylvania Station in New York and to Secaucus, N.J. Fans would have to take a shuttle train from the Secaucus Junction station to a new station now under construction at the Meadowlands.
 Gene Colonese, rail administrator for the State Transportation Department, said that while he did not have a projection of how many riders were likely to use the service, he believed there was a need for it.
 ''There's always a demand to take trains to sporting events because of the traffic congestion associated with them,'' he said.
 New Jersey Transit trains would have to be used for the entire trip, because Metro-North trains are not equipped to run on Amtrak's tracks, Mr. Colonese said.
 Because of a limited number of available trains, the service would most likely operate only for games that start Sundays at 1 p.m., Mr. Colonese said. The cost has not been determined. The trip would take about 90 minutes.
 Mr. Colonese said the service would begin even if the new stadium planned for the Giants and Jets was not ready by the 2009 season.
 ''The new station will be integrated into the new stadium,'' he said. ''But it's still within walking distance of the current stadium.''
 Pat Hanlon, a spokesman for the Giants, said in a statement that the trains would help during construction, when 5,000 parking spaces will be lost.
 ''We have strongly encouraged our fans to car-pool, and obviously mass transportation is another way to lessen the impact of the loss of parking,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSPECTIONS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); LAYOFFS (85%); GOVERNORS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); POLICE FORCES (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (67%); DISMISSALS (63%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (62%); SEVERANCE PAY (61%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (90%); DANNEL MALLOY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



332 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: When Demagogues Play the Leprosy Card, Watch Out

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

 BODY:
People who want to reform immigration by putting America in lockdown have not been shy about using fear and revulsion to get their point across. Illegal immigrants, they say, are invading the country to reconquer it, to erode our Anglo-Saxon culture and to make us all sick. 
 Here's Representative Tom Tancredo, complaining in the Republican presidential debate about pressing 1 for English. (Aliens -- they're in your telephone!) And there's Lou Dobbs on CNN, helping racist tract-writers to peddle made-up statistics about immigrants and leprosy. (Did the country suddenly have 7,000 cases in three years? No, only a few hundred. But it sure sounds scarier.) 
I know at least one person who finds the fear-mongering particularly offensive. She is Nicole Holmes, an American citizen who is a threat to nobody. She is an immigrant, and she has had leprosy.
 Ms. Holmes, a cheerful 28-year-old, was born in Trinidad, grew up in Brooklyn and now lives outside Atlanta with her husband, Zakee, and two sons, Aaron, 3, and Andrew, 2. She told me her story by phone recently while her boys ran around the house, tormenting each other. (''Andrew, stop the biting, please,'' she said. ''Just share the car.'')
 Ms. Holmes learned she had leprosy, or Hansen's disease, when she was 18 and a student at Pace University. Her husband, then in the military, stood by her, taking her to doctor's appointments and helping her through a difficult treatment complicated by lapses in medical insurance and frequent moves.
 She is now fully recovered. She has no signs of the disease except for some scars on her arms where doctors took tissue samples for biopsies. She runs an Internet support group for leprosy patients and doctors, and is a board member of the International Association for Integration, Dignity and Economic Advancement, or IDEA, an organization that works to erase the stigma of leprosy, which it calls ''one of the most persistent and pervasive forms of social injustice that society has forced upon its fellow human beings.''
 Many people are surprised to learn that leprosy still exists. It is entrenched in parts of the third world, and people with it suffer greatly -- often in secret, because their shame is so profound. But leprosy is nothing but a bacterial infection that has been curable for more than 50 years. It is very hard to catch -- 95 percent of humans have a natural immunity. Patients are no longer infectious after one treatment, and those who are cured need not fear a relapse. 
 While the disease has greatly abated around the world, the social side-effects -- abuse, discrimination, exile -- have not gone away. People with leprosy face obstacles that people with cancer or AIDS do not. Their disease has been feared for millennia. It is in the Bible, linked to sin and uncleanliness and imbedded in the language, as a metaphor for anything loathsome or untouchable.
 We think we know about leprosy, but our knowledge is incomplete and full of errors. The leprosy patients we have heard of are superhuman or anonymous. They are either Father Damien of Molokai, who died with the disease, or they are the forgotten Hawaiians he served, who lived in exile and lie by the thousands in unmarked graves. 
 People with leprosy have learned to be especially wary of writers whose works are often warped by disgust or its sickly cousins, pity and condescension. A recent book, ''The Colony: The Harrowing True Story of the Exiles of Molokai,'' created a furor when its subjects accused the author, John Tayman, of stealing and distorting their biographies. They had the support of historians like Anwei Law, international coordinator of IDEA, who said the book twisted reality for melodrama, beginning with its cover, a photograph of the Amalfi coast of Italy that looks a lot more ominous than the sea cliffs of Hawaii. They begged to be removed from the book. Mr. Tayman, while defending his accuracy and sensitivity, refused.
 Between the possibly well-meaning Mr. Tayman and the blundering Mr. Dobbs, who invited a furor by defending grossly exaggerated leprosy statistics -- ''If we reported it, it's a fact,'' he said -- advocates like Ms. Holmes and Ms. Law have their work cut out for them.
 It's not surprising that people who oppose immigration reform would try to harness the powerful fear of leprosy to their cause. It's true that nations have been destroyed by waves of newcomers carrying exotic diseases -- Google ''European,'' ''measles'' and ''Indian.'' But the public threat of leprosy in the United States -- a few hundred cases a year in a country of 300 million -- is small. 
 Most of those cases are among immigrants. But it is a grotesque extrapolation to claim that illegal immigration is causing a leprosy epidemic and to follow with the sweeping conclusion that all immigrants are diseased and dangerous. And anti-amnesty hard-liners are just compounding fear-mongering with foolishness when they seek to crack down on illegal immigrants with an enforcement blanket that would keep anyone who might be ill hidden, off the books and away from doctors.
 Villagers in rural Brazil, India and Africa, where leprosy and poverty are endemic and medical care is spotty, have understandable reasons to fear the disease. I'm not sure what our excuse is.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LEPROSY (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (76%); TROPICAL DISEASES (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); WRITERS (70%); CANCER (69%); AIDS & HIV (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%)

PERSON: THOMAS G TANCREDO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



333 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Hamas May Find It Needs Its Enemy

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH and GREG MYRE

 BODY:
ISLAMIST fighters of Hamas seized control of Gaza last week. For the first time in the history of the Palestinians' fight for nationhood, there seemed a real possibility that two Palestines rather than one might emerge -- one in Gaza, dominated by Hamas, the other in the West Bank, led by Fatah. 
 But Palestinian society is not so simple. There are many historical, economic and tribal loyalties that bind it together, and many of those cross, rather than coincide with, the frontiers of the two territories.
In addition, there are compelling reasons why the two communities need unity. 
 A look at the history of these territories, how they developed differently over time, and what their populations still share, shows why they are at odds now but also why it might be too early to write off the possibility that this breach can be bridged.
 They have always had distinct traits, culturally and geographically -- the West Bank supporting a landlocked urban and agricultural society, Gaza facing the sea.
 Those differences increased after the creation of Israel in 1948, when Gaza fell under the administration of Egypt and the West Bank was annexed by Jordan.
 Egypt treated Gaza as a Palestinian enclave and encouraged a strong sense of Palestinian identity. Many Gazans who studied in Egypt during those years were influenced, in turn, by the Muslim Brotherhood, whose goal is to establish Islamic theocracies across the Arab world.
 Back in Gaza, some of those men founded Hamas in 1987.
 Jordan, on the other hand, suppressed Palestinian nationalism in favor of Jordanian identity and Palestinians in the West Bank were more influenced by the secular societies of Jordan, Syria and Lebanon, where many went to study. Others traveled even further abroad, bringing back a liberal view of the world.
 By the time the two territories came under Israeli occupation together after the 1967 war, they were very different places. Their separate legal and educational systems weren't consolidated until after the Palestinian Authority was established in the mid-1990s.
 There were high hopes back then that the two territories could be tied together into a Palestinian state. In signing the 1993 Oslo accords, Israel pledged to treat the West Bank and Gaza as ''a single territorial unit'' and guaranteed ''safe passage'' for Palestinians traveling between them.
 A road specifically for Palestinians was established between the West Bank and Gaza, a distance of about 40 miles. It functioned, but sporadically, until the second Palestinian uprising began in September 2000.
 When it was open, the traffic was largely one way, carrying unemployed Gazans to the West Bank in search of work in the better economy there.
 But since Israel withdrew from Gaza in September 2005, effectively severing the remaining links between the two territories, the West Bank and Gaza have grown even further apart.
 Gaza, which has suffered the most economically in the past few years, has become increasingly conservative and increasingly religious, largely due to the growing influence of Hamas.
 Women in Gaza are more likely to be wear full Islamic dress and much less likely to work outside the home than their counterparts in the West Bank. Even in Gaza's large garment factories, the vast majority of the workers sitting behind the sewing machines are men.
 Gaza's cultural life tends to center on the local mosque, and its small anemic economy consists almost entirely of small-scale businesses and jobs provided by the Palestinian Authority.
 The West Bank, meanwhile, has a far richer economic life that includes industry, farming and a service sector. Its cities even have a few cinemas, art exhibitions, decent restaurants and a few night clubs. 
 In some ways, the current conflict is a local dispute specific to Gaza.
 When Yasir Arafat returned from exile and established the Palestinian Authority in 1994, he divided his time between the West Bank and Gaza in an attempt to develop unity between the two territories.
 But within two years, his security forces in Gaza, led by Muhammad Dahlan, were cracking down on Hamas leaders. Many Hamas leaders were jailed and their beards shaved to humiliate them. Some claim they were tortured.
 Hamas has never forgiven Mr. Dahlan and other Fatah leaders for the harsh treatment, and those resentments have fueled tension in Gaza ever since.
 When Hamas won national elections last year and formed a government, no one expected Mr. Dahlan's security forces to submit to Hamas control. To counter Mr. Dahlan's power, Hamas organized a security force of its own under the Ministry of the Interior.
 It seemed only a matter of time before the two forces would clash in Gaza's narrow confines. The current crisis began when the Palestinian Authority president and Fatah leader, Mahmoud Abbas, appointed Mr. Dahlan as his national security adviser to oversee all security forces in the Palestinian territories.
 While Hamas is now in control of Gaza and Fatah of the West Bank, neither has achieved total political support in either place, and each organization needs a political presence in both places to remain viable in the long term.
 For now, Hamas appears to be winning, but its latest gains are primarily military, not political. While the movement is popular politically among the urban poor and the young in both the West Bank and Gaza, Fatah remains the stronger movement in the West Bank -- where people are relatively better off and where it has built an extensive system of patronage. It still has support among many moderate Gazans, too.
 Hamas's military victory last week obscures the fact that Fatah has been gaining political support in Gaza over the past year, according to Mouin Rabbani, an analyst at the International Crisis Group in Jordan. He says this may be because a larger percentage of Gazans depend on Fatah finances to make a living. Hamas, meanwhile, has been gaining support in the West Bank because Palestinians there are discouraged by Fatah's corruption and policy failures, Mr. Rabbani says.
 Hamas could face a backlash if Palestinians generally blame it for undermining unity. It could also be blamed for giving Israel, the United States and others further reason to isolate Hamas and work with Fatah in the West Bank at the expense of Hamas in Gaza.
 The Hamas-Fatah divide also cuts across clan lines at a time when clan loyalty has been growing stronger, in Gaza in particular. If political factions only bring more chaos and insecurity, clan loyalties could take over.
 Many ordinary Palestinians are upset with both factions for allowing the feud to spiral out of control and for their inability to work toward the larger goal of Palestinian statehood and the prospects of a secure economic future.
 Unity would be an advantage economically on the most basic levels: Gaza could be an outlet to the world for West Bank products; the West Bank could expand the prospects for jobs and living space for poverty-stricken, overcrowded Gazans.
 After the fighting last week, some people feared that Hamas might try to repeat in the West Bank the military victory that it won over Fatah in Gaza. But it is unlikely that that would sit well with the moderate Arab states that have backed Hamas and recently worked so hard to forge the unity government with Fatah that has now collapsed.
 Hamas could even find itself shut off from Egypt, which is wary of encouraging a movement on its border that is inspired by the Muslim Brotherhood, which Egypt fights at home.
 Palestinians in both the West Bank and Gaza, meanwhile, recognize that Fatah alone holds the lifeline of Western financial support.
 So if military dominance gives Hamas bargaining power, the economic imperative of a unified Palestinian body politic argues, in the end, for some accommodation with Fatah. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Divided -- Hamas fighters after seizing the Gaza offices of President Mahmoud Abbas. (Photo by Suhaib Salem/Reuters)(pg. 4)
 Wary -- Gaza during the fighting. (Photo by Mohammed Saber/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. 1) Chart/Map: ''Comparing the Two Territories'' GAZA POPULATION (MILLIONS): 1.5 PER SQ. MILE: approx. 10,800 WEST BANK POPULATION (MILLIONS): 2.5 PER SQ. MILE: 1,150 PERCENT OF POPULATION AGE 14 AND UNDER GAZA: 48 WEST BANK: 42 FERTILITY RATE GAZA CHILDREN BORN PER WOMAN: 5.6 WEST BANK CHILDREN BORN PER WOMAN: 4.2 WORK AND JOBLESSNESS -- Unemployment for the combined territories is 20.3 percent. (Figures are not available for the individual territories.) OCCUPATIONS GAZA SERVICES: 70 INDUSTRY: 18 AGRICULTURE: 12 WEST BANK SERVICES: 55 INDUSTRY: 29 AGRICULTURE: 16 PERCENT OF PEOPLE BELOW POVERTY LINE GAZA: 63 WEST BANK: 46 Map of Gaza Strip and West Bank: At 139 square miles, the Gaza Strip is a little more than twice the size of the District of Columbia. The West Bank is 2,263 square miles, a little smaller than Delaware. (Source by C.I.A. World Factbook)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (86%); AL FATAH (79%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POVERTY RATES (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (76%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); JORDAN (94%); EGYPT (93%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



334 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SLIPSTREAM; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: What Does Africa Need Most: Technology or Aid?

BYLINE: By JASON PONTIN. 
Jason Pontin is the editor in chief and publisher of Technology Review, a magazine and Web site owned by M.I.T. E-mail: pontin@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I AM just back from Tanzania in East Africa. 
 In the mornings, disregarding the protests of the armed guards at my lodge near Arusha, I jogged along muddy footpaths. After the heavy rains, and under a low, misty sky, the fields looked as ruined as a battlefield. Very poor farmers and their children stared curiously at me as I passed.
 In the afternoons, I attended the Technology, Education and Design Global 2007 conference, in the modern Ngurdoto Mountain Lodge. The contrast between the two experiences troubled me.
 TED conferences, mostly held in Monterey, Calif., are invitation-only affairs, are attended by the aristocracy of Silicon Valley and are known for their adventurousness in drawing together wildly disparate trends in technology, business and the arts. 
 On this occasion, Bono, the Irish rock star and champion of African causes, had persuaded the conference's organizer, Chris Anderson, to invite the usual crowd, as well as African entrepreneurs, activists, health care professionals and artists to this tropical, leafy region midway between the Serengeti Plain and Mount Kilimanjaro.
 Opening the conference on June 4, Mr. Anderson described his purposes as frankly promotional. Too often, he said, the only images of Africa that Westerners see are of drought, famine, disease and civil war. By contrast, TED Global 2007 would present an Africa that was newly entrepreneurial, increasingly wealthy and tech savvy, and largely politically stable.
 ''It's a story,'' Mr. Anderson said, ''that is unfolding across the continent, and it's a story that's not well known outside of Africa.'' 
 But beyond this Panglossian message, however much a corrective to the common images of African misery and however flattering to the pride of TED's African attendees, was something that everyone at the conference knew (and which I saw every morning on my runs). Whether measured by per capita income or by the gross domestic product of its nations, Africa is the poorest place on earth. The question that the conference was really exploring was this: How can we make every African family richer? 
 At TED Global 2007, I witnessed one small skirmish in a larger ideological conflict between those who believe that Africa needs more and better international aid, and those who think entrepreneurialism and technology will lift the continent out of poverty and thus reduce its miseries.
 Predictably, TED's attendees and speakers were spellbound by technology and entrepreneurialism and, at the same time, distrustful of international aid. 
 ''What man has ever become rich by holding out a begging bowl?'' asked Andrew Mwenda, an Ugandan journalist and social worker, now a research fellow at Stanford in California.
 Mr. Mwenda argued that $500 billion in international aid over 50 years had achieved nothing in Africa and that the persistence of African poverty could be explained, in part, by aid. Charity, he said, had ''distorted the incentive structure'' and had persuaded the brightest Africans to work for corrupt governments. He called upon African entrepreneurs to build African businesses and the American investors in TED's audience to finance them. 
 Echoing Mr. Mwenda, Russell Southwood, the publisher of Balancing Act, a newsletter about technology in Africa, implored African entrepreneurs and Western business leaders to ''invest in shortages.'' Africa, he said, could ''leapfrog'' the industrial technologies that Westerners use and build truly 21st-century technology systems and networks. 
 As an example, Mr. Southwood pointed to a near absence of telephone landlines in sub-Saharan Africa; cellular networks for mobile phones could quickly bring modern communications to hundreds of millions of Africans. 
 At least one of the African attendees of the conference was representative of the kind of technological entrepreneurialism that the show advocated. 
 Alieu Conteh, the chairman of Vodacom Congo, was born in Gambia, in West Africa, 55 years ago and moved to Congo in 1981. For years, he was a successful coffee buyer and exporter. 
 Congo is about the size of Western Europe and has an estimated population of 65 million people. It is one of the least-developed nations in the world, with less than 300 miles of roads, most of them in poor condition. 
 In 1997, Mr. Conteh recalled in an interview, he heard Laurent D. Kabila, then the country's president, deliver a speech in which he called upon his countrymen to rebuild Congo's infrastructure after the 30-year dictatorship of Mobutu Sese Seko. Mr. Conteh, who had no experience in telecommunications, said he was inspired. He decided to build the nation's first GSM (Global System for Mobile communications) digital network. 
 At the time, according to Mr. Conteh, fewer than 10,000 people living in Congo -- mainly business people, foreigners and government employees -- had mobile handsets. They paid $7 to $10 a minute to make a call, using an older technology. Less than 15,000 homes had a telephone landline.
 Mr. Conteh said he went, cap in hand, to the minister of communications to ask for the country's first GSM license. In January 1998 he got it -- but he first had to pay the government a license fee of $100,000. Over the years, and with little explanation, he said, the government, which is often terribly short of money, increased the license fee, first to $400,000, then $2 million. 
 Since, at first, no Western investors had any faith in the country's mobile market, Mr. Conteh said he wrote the first checks to the government. And he paid $1.5 million to Nortel, the telecommunications equipment provider, to help create his network. To help raise the money, he had to sell his coffee trucks. In February 1999, Mr. Conteh introduced the Congo Wireless Network, with just 3,000 subscribers. 
 Throughout the early days of his company, Mr. Conteh faced challenges unknown to Western businesses. Once, after equipment providers declined to send engineers to Congo during a dangerous time in the country's unending civil strife, he encouraged the citizens of Kinshasa, the capital, to collect scrap metal and weld them into a cellphone tower.
 In 2001, he sold 51 percent of the company to Vodacom, South Africa's largest mobile service provider, to get the capital to expand the mobile network to millions of Congelese.
 By the middle of 2006, Vodacom Congo had more than 1.5 million subscribers, according to Vodacom's annual report. Today, Mr. Conteh says, the company he founded has more than three million subscribers who have spent, on average, around $50 for a handset and who prepay about $2 for every five minutes of talk time. He says a recent offer for his shares valued Vodacom Congo at more than $1.5 billion. (He refused to name the interested party.) 
 Nonetheless, Mr. Conteh (whom I found charming, modest, hugely amused by his own travails -- and very shrewd) turned down the offer. ''My goal was never to become the richest man in Congo,'' he told me. ''I would like to create the country's first stock market. Then I would like to float 20 percent of my share in a public offering, so that the people will see the company as theirs.''
 MR. CONTEH is building a telecommunications network where none existed before. With 600 employees and 5,000 contractors, Vodacom Congo is one of his country's biggest employers. If he realizes his ambition to create a stock market and offer shares in his company, he will have created new wealth. But the tale of Vodacom Congo also illustrates the difficulties of creating new businesses in Africa and the limits of entrepreneurialism as an alternative to international aid. 
 Mr. Conteh accepted risks that few businesses would, and for many years he found it impossible to attract more than a few eccentric investors. More significant, it has taken Mr. Conteh more than a decade to provide telecommunications to less than 10 percent of the country. While the existence of Vodacom Congo may one day help build other businesses, the country's general poverty is not alleviated by the existence of the company.
 In truth, Africa will need both investment in entrepreneurialism and aid, intelligently directed toward education, health and food.
 Herman Chinery-Hesse, the founder of Softtribe, a software development company in Ghana, expressed this thought more personally than I could. ''I think this choice between aid and entrepreneurship is false,'' he told TED's attendees. ''If we wait for trade, it will take generations, and people need help now. On the other hand, only entrepreneurship can make us rich.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 24, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Slipstream column last Sunday, about the potential of technology to help African economies, misstated the name of a recent conference held in Tanzania. It was the Technology, Entertainment, Design Global 2007 conference, not the Technology, Education and Design Global 200

GRAPHIC: Photo: Micheline Kapinga of Kamponde, Congo, uses a cellphone on the only site in the village that is sometimes able to capture a signal. (Photo by Beth Duff-Brown/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); FAMINE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); DROUGHT (77%); WEATHER (77%); MOUNTAINS (76%); CELEBRITIES (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (67%); WRITERS (64%); CHARITIES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%)

PERSON: BONO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); EARTH (79%); MOUNT KILIMANJARO (79%) AFRICA (97%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); UGANDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



335 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Curb Job

BYLINE: By PETE HAMILL. 
Pete Hamill's 10th novel, ''North River,'' has just been published.

 BODY:
TAXI!
 A Social History of the
 New York City Cabdriver.
 By Graham Russell Gao Hodges.
 Illustrated. 225 pp.
 The Johns Hopkins University Press. $25.
TAXI drivers are the most enduring oppressed minority in New York City history. Race, ethnicity and religion are not sources of the oppression. It lies entirely in the nature of the work. Trapped for about 12 hours each day in the worst traffic in the United States, taxi drivers must suffer the savage frustrations of jammed streets, double-parked cars, immense trucks, drivers from New Jersey -- and they can't succumb to the explosive therapy of road rage. Their living depends on self-control.
 At the same time, they face many other hazards: drunks behind them in the cab, fare beaters, stickup men, Knicks fans filled with biblical despair, out-of-town conventioneers who think the drivers are mobile pimps. Some seal themselves off from the back seat with the radio, an iPod or a cellphone. All pray that the next passenger doesn't want to go from Midtown to the far reaches of Brooklyn or Queens. They hope for a decent tip. They hope to stay alive until the next fare waves from under a midnight streetlamp. 
 In this informative, solid history, Graham Russell Gao Hodges traces the story of the cabdrivers from 1907, when the first metered taxis appeared on New York streets, to the present. He writes with obvious sympathy, having driven a hack himself before moving on to academic labors as a historian at Peking University and Colgate. Loneliness is a running theme in ''Taxi!'': if the title were not already taken, Hodges could have called his compact history ''One Hundred Years of Solitude.
 Across 10 decades, taxi drivers have worked alone in the most crowded city in the country. They've had a limited feeling of a shared fate in the taxi garages, or in certain cafeterias. But most of the time, even today, they move by themselves through the streets, alert for fares and dangers, paid to spend their days or nights with people they will never see again. When I was young, most of them had adopted a common strategy against loneliness: a fleeting intimacy with their passengers. This was the era of the cabby as philosopher or comedian, quick to make observations about life itself, or its subdivisions in politics and sports, or to crack wise about women and other mysteries. This form of performance art had two goals: human contact and better tips. Some of the cabbies (most of them Irish, Jewish or Italian) were very smart. Some were very funny. Some were bores. And one morning around 1972, I realized that all of them were gone. 
 In the 1990s, I asked Edward Adler about this great turnover. Adler had been a taxi driver, had written a fine book called ''Notes From a Dark Street'' (1962) and had gone on to a successful career as a television writer. He answered: ''They drove cabs so their kids wouldn't have to drive cabs. When their kids finished at the university, they packed it in.'' 
 That theme also runs through Hodges' history. Few New Yorkers ever longed for taxi driving as a lifelong vocation. In different eras there were different motives: a fast buck to be made during Prohibition, carrying customers or shipments of booze to speakeasies; stopgap work during the first onslaught of the Depression; fill-in work (particularly among women) during World War II, when so many men were off at war or employed by military plants. For some, temporary work did stretch into a lifetime. Others walked away when the crisis had passed.
 A few did make a conscious decision to spend their working lives at the city's most lonesome and nerve-racking job. This minority enjoyed the work, its independence from office or shop, the adventurous feeling that no shift was like any other. After a few years, these drivers cobbled together loans from banks and relatives, and bought their own taxis. More important, they took possession of the precious medallion attached to the hood that made the taxi a licensed vehicle. The number of such medallions was fixed at 13,595 in 1937, in an attempt to limit the taxicabs in New York. Their value continued to grow, even when more medallions were created in the 1990s. The purchase price for individual medallions was about $20,000 in 1960, and by 2004 nearly $293,000. For owner-drivers this was the most important investment of their lives, their only chance at a dignified retirement. They became the equivalent of lifers in the Army. 
 The owner-drivers, who worked in the same world as the drivers for the great taxi fleets, became a major problem in the long campaigns to unionize the industry. Hodges tells this part of the story superbly, drawing on accounts in trade and union newspapers, the memoirs of drivers (an enduring genre) and the city's dailies. Certainly there was a need for a strong union. The tens of thousands of drivers who worked for the corporate fleets were subjected to the vagaries of the shape-up, lacked guaranteed income, had no pensions. Things got worse in bad economic times. One of the great left-wing dramas of the Depression was Clifford Odets's ''Waiting for Lefty'' (1935), about New York taxi drivers. It ended with angry shouts of ''Strike! Strike! Strike!'' 
 But union organization drives and scattered strikes almost all failed, including those led by such labor stalwarts as Mike Quill and Harry Van Arsdale. Owner-drivers who continued working during strikes were often attacked, their tires slashed, their doors torn off by angry strikers. Passengers, including women, were dragged from back seats. But then the furies quickly ebbed. Slogans about solidarity were not matched by reality. Frequently, the need for change clashed with the individualism of the drivers, along with their need to feed and house their families (strike funds were never enough, or nonexistent). And, of course, most owner-drivers saw no justice in agreeing to strike against themselves. 
 Over these years, cabdrivers became figures in popular culture. Hodges follows their evolution from the exuberant James Cagney (speaking a bit of Yiddish in the movie ''Taxi'') to Dick Powell (singing opera for his passengers in ''Broadway Gondolier''), all the way to the superb television series ''Taxi,'' with Judd Hirsch, Tony Danza and Danny DeVito, and Martin Scorsese's dark film ''Taxi Driver.'' The tough, fast-talking drivers of the early movies were perfect characters for love stories about class. But by the time Robert De Niro moved into the streets, New York was entering a nightmare phase in which the fatal combination of drugs and guns brought a sense of menace to the city, leading to widespread paranoia among drivers. Their slogan might have echoed De Niro's Travis Bickle: ''You talkin' to me?'' 
 That paranoia was not provoked by an urban legend; Hodges tells us that driver robberies rose from 438 in 1963 to 3,208 in 1979, and this fed the pervasive hackie racism of the 1970s and '80s. Many drivers refused to stop for African-Americans, switching on the ''off duty'' lights, feigning semiconsciousness. The authorities cracked down. Bulletproof partitions limited the old intimacy of passengers and driver. Plainclothes cops drove taxis, trying to trap criminals. But the sense of danger lasted into the Giuliani years, when violent crime finally began to decline. This was too late for many drivers, who had abandoned taxis forever. 
 Today there are still cases of racial profiling, but the situation seems better. One reason: The departed drivers have been replaced by a new generation of hackies -- Indian, Pakistani, Russian, Haitian, African. By 2004, more than 90 percent of medallion drivers were foreign-born. Most drivers can't afford to turn down fares on the absurd basis of skin color. In my experience, most of today's taxi drivers are a silent minority. The days of philosophy are gone, along with the jokes. The need for tips goes on. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vanderbilt Avenue at Grand Central Terminal, 1971. (Photo by Neal Boenzi/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); HISTORY (89%); ROAD RAGE (78%); RELIGION (77%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



336 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; DESIGN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Mad Scionists: Young, Hip And a Bit Less Square

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
IN December 2006, while other automakers were getting ready to unveil their new models at the Detroit auto show in January, Scion held a party in Miami. The guests were 300 owners of its cars who were entertained by the musician Ludacris. At the end of the evening, the new Scion xB and xD models were revealed.
 Since it came on the scene five years ago, Scion has made a point of doing things differently. Toyota's youth brand can brag of having the lowest average age, about 30, among its owners and of strong customer loyalty.
The Scion xB shown in Miami is now arriving at dealers and suggests Scion is growing up. The original xB was a small boxy car with attitude. The new one is bigger -- a full foot longer than the last xB, 3 inches wider, about 35 percent roomier, 600 pounds heavier, 55 horsepower stronger and about 10 percent more expensive. It is also less fuel efficient. Fuel economy has declined to 22 city and 28 highway, from 26 city and 30 highway. 
 The new box has lost the toaster-on-roller-skates look of the original; the wheels are an inch larger. It is no longer, well, as weird. It is also considerably zippier, especially in passing mode, corners quite respectably and rides much more gently. 
 The new xB was designed at Calty, Toyota's design studio in Newport Beach, Calif., and takes its basic shape from the t2B (tall two box) concept, shown at the New York International Auto Show in 2005. The lead designer, Jin Kim of Calty, was senior designer of the more aggressive t2B concept, with its glaring face. 
 But the new xB dilutes the line of the t2B so much that from some angles its profile suggests a miniature Land Rover. Its body has been puffed out with conventional fenders and the aggressive face of the t2B concept has been softened into downright amiability. 
 Customers can make the new xB boxier using a kit of body panels from Five Axis in Huntington Beach, Calif., which built the t2B show car. That is what some xB owners are planning, judging from postings on Scion Web sites. Others are happy with the new box as is. 
 One owner of the first generation xB, Frank Hoelck, 33, of Baltic, Conn., who customized his black xB, said, ''I was beyond thrilled with the new xB. Scion has really listened to what the owners had to say about the first generation xB.'' 
 Mr. Hoelck has been a Scion enthusiast since the brand first appeared. He is president of a club of Scion owners. ''I will buy a new xB as soon as this one is paid off,'' he said.
 At a recent press event, Steve Haag, corporate manager of Scion, said that owners had asked for a larger box. Mr. Haag also said that the company expected to sell about 170,000 cars in 2008, compared with 150,000 in 2007, a year when Scion was introducing new models. 
 Scion comes from a word meaning offspring. It suggests zion, scythe, science, and overtones of the ''Matrix'' films. The logo is equally referential: Is that a shark fin? a tooth?
 Scion first appeared in 2002 at the New York auto show, when the company showed concept cars. The first production vehicles were shown in Los Angeles in 2003; sales began that June. 
 The xB became a symbol of Scion. It was a virtual anticar. The original idea was to create a car as a social space or hangout in Japan, where young people lack privacy at home. In the United States, its anti-aerodynamic shape suggested a lack of interest in speed, acceleration or other values associated with the traditional auto enthusiast.
 Scion has been relentless in marketing its cars. The company has given away truckloads of caps, pens, keychains, magazines and CDs. It has held driver gatherings, concerts and art shows. It has jointly marketed with brands like Zoo York, the skateboarder-inspired fashion label. It appears at import customizer shows like Hot Import Nights. 
 Scion has worked hard to wrap itself in music and art. The musical offerings include CDs of musicians like Peanut Butter Wolf and DJ Jazzy Jeff. Scion's art program included a series of shows around the country in which young artists were provided with panels from the cars or scale models of the cars to paint. For the new xB, with its square theme, the company gave the artists square canvases. Scion even opened its own art gallery in Culver City, an area of Los Angeles with an active art scene. 
 Scion is pushing the new xB on the Web site want2bsquare.com, and has established presences for the model on the Internet sites Whyville (whyville.net) and Second Life (secondlife.com). 
 But for all its viral marketing, Scion has also succeeded on its low prices, especially the tC with with the optional dealer-installed supercharger, a sporty coupe some called ''the baby Lexus.'' Analysts wondered if Toyota could possibly be making money on Scions, which are built in Japan. 
 ''Are you dumping?'' a journalist asked bluntly at Scion's recent press briefing, referring to the practice of selling cars at a loss to stifle competition or establish market share.
 ''No,'' said Mr. Haag . ''Even if we didn't make a dime on it, Scion would have been worth it for what we are learning about marketing and younger customers for the rest of the company.''
 Certainly, Scion has shown Toyota in a new light: not just as a company known more for quality, with often dull if unobjectionable design, but as an innovator in design and marketing. 
 But Scion's success also depends on its no-nonsense marketing pitch: few choices, no haggling, a square deal, one-price list. All the buyer picks are the color (there are six for the xB; all interiors are charcoal), transmission and wheel covers. 
 Beyond that, Scion emphasizes accessories. Personalization is a crucial part of Scion's marketing and design. ''The car is a blank canvas,'' Mr. Haag said. The company offers both its own accessories, ordered through dealers as Scion Genuine Accessories or from the Optomize line from others. Mr. Haag said that about half of Scion's customers accessorized their cars and the average spent for each car was around $1,000. 
 Not all who bought a Scion in the early days of the brand were 20-somethings. ''I would see people my parents' age in them'' said Mr. Hoelck, the xB owner. ''It is economical, has huge space and is good on gas.''
 If the new xB suggests that Scion is maturing, Mr. Hoelck suggested that may be appropriate. ''The original owners are older now, too,'' he said. 
 (For those who want a more basic box, Nissan is planning to bring a version of the Cube it sells in Japan to the United States.) 
 ''The question I am asked the most is,'' Mr. Hoelck said, '' 'Is it a hybrid?' '' 
 Toyota offers hybrid versions of many of its vehicles, and some Scion owners were surprised that it had not introduced a hybrid, which Mr. Hoelck said Scion was considering. 
 ''It would be a perfect car if it were a hybrid,'' said the designer Karim Rashid, who owns a first generation xB. ''It has enormous room, is easy to handle and park, and frugally beautiful.'' 
 The 2008 xB is arriving at dealers now. The xD, a new model, built on the Toyota Yaris underpinnings and replacing the xA, arrives in August. It is a hatchback that reflects a dose of boxy design genes as well. 
 But today, the box seems almost conventional. 
 From the best of Toyota's design -- the innovation behind the Prius and FJ Cruiser -- the new xB seems to take a step back toward the least attractive parts of Toyota's design: the tendency to soften and dilute ideas and themes with the focus on not offending rather than actively pleasing. The original xB was daring, but with this one, Toyota seems to have returned to conservatism. Has it gone back to thinking inside the box? 

GRAPHIC: Photos: GROWING UP The new xB is bigger and has 55 more horsepower than the last model.
SHOW CAR t2B.
OLD BOX 2004 xB
 A RIVAL Nissan Cube 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW PRODUCTS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



337 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Children's Books; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1191 words

BYLINE: By WALTER KIRN. 
Walter Kirn is a regular contributor to the Book Review. His latest novel is ''The Unbinding.''

 BODY:
A YOUNG PEOPLE'S HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES
 Volume One: Columbus to 
 the Spanish-American War.
 Illustrated. 212 pp. $16.95. 
 Volume Two: Class Struggle 
 to the War on Terror.
 Illustrated. 234 pp. $17.95. 
 By Howard Zinn. Adapted by Rebecca Stefoff.
 Seven Stories Press. (Ages 10 to 14)
The colonial upper classes had a problem: keeping the lower classes down. They solved it by hypnotizing the middle class with ''the language of liberty and equality.'' This trick caused the middle class to ignore the plights of black slaves, poor whites and Indians and to fight King George. Our nation was born. 
 Is history really this simple? Yes. Yes, according to Howard Zinn, whose ''Young People's History of the United States'' is a condensation and simplification of his already quite condensed and simple ''People's History of the United States.'' The original work, which came out in 1980, has, according to its publishers, sold one and a half million copies. Its intention (as clear an intention as there could be, and carried out with sincerity and skill) was to provide a populist antidote to the ''telling of history from the standpoint of the conquerors and leaders of Western civilization.'' 
 The new book's intention is to repeat that feat in fewer pages and shorter, punchier sentences for the benefit of a younger audience. Because there was little in the first book that a teenager couldn't understand, the new book is not a dumbing down but, if anything, a summing up. Zinn's tale of exploitation by the haves of the have-nots begins, as it did the first time, with Columbus, whom Zinn portrays as a greedy, pious maniac who not only killed and subjugated the natives but fibbed to his masters on the Spanish throne about sighting land before one of his sailors did in order to steal a large reward. 
 The purpose of preserving this detail in an otherwise boiled-down version of Zinn's book appears to be to show that the man who discovered the New World wasn't merely the incarnation of a destructive economic system but a jerk. Worse -- and perhaps most outrageously to young folks, with their keen sense of fairness and budding love of irony -- the native peoples whom he destroyed were nice. They ''believed in hospitality and in sharing.''
 These terrible things may all be true -- and indeed they are supported by Columbus's own account and other primary sources that Zinn extensively quotes. But as Zinn himself points out about his discipline, telling the truth is not Job 1 for historians. Editing and motivating are. The goal is to ''pick and choose among facts'' so as to ''shape the ideas and beliefs'' that will ''help us imagine new possibilities for the future.'' Zinn, a professor emeritus at Boston University, holds these notions to be self-evident, much as the founding fathers whom he deplores held justice and freedom (those cruel illusions) to be. 
 Bright 12-year-olds may find this matter confounding. If the writing of history is, by definition, a crafty manipulation of people's minds meant to sway them, then why should the writers of constitutions be expected to operate any differently? And if the facts can be massaged at will to serve the interests of the masseuses, why even bother with facts at all, since lies would work well, too? Indeed, if all is sophistry and power, why not just let the best man win? So what if he happens to be rich and white?
 Although Zinn's book is surely meant to inspire idealism in the young, it seems as likely that its effect will be to render idealism impossible. ''In the history of the world, there is no country where racism has been more important than in the United States,'' Zinn writes in the opening of his second chapter. Besides letting Nazi Germany off the hook, this categorical pronouncement discourages the reader from thinking through the material that follows it. All a stricken sixth grader can do is surrender to numbness as Zinn asserts that ''everything that happened to the first white settlers pushed them toward the enslavement of blacks.'' 
 Circumstances appear to change decades and chapters later, during the Lincoln administration, but it makes little difference in the rotten scheme of things. By the time Zinn calls Lincoln ''the perfect figure to bring about the end of slavery,'' we're familiar enough with his methods to know he isn't paying Abe a compliment. The term ''figure'' is a tip-off. It suggests that Lincoln was a tool, like that genocidal old weasel Columbus. ''Lincoln,'' Zinn continues, stripping more flesh from the profile on the penny, ''understood the needs of business. He shared the political ambition of the new Republican political party. Finally, he spoke the language of doing good, and he could argue with passion against slavery on moral grounds.'' Here is the president famed above all others for the vigor and genius of his oratory and it turns out his stuff was mere ad copy, just ''language.'' How much of a total bummer is that?
 Writing about abolitionism, Zinn leaves the impression that freeing the slaves was not enough -- they had to be freed in the right way. And since giving grand speeches and waging a civil war wasn't the right way, apparently, it shouldn't surprise us that blacks slipped backward again a few years later -- and most whites slipped with them. That's because the real trouble was ''capitalism,'' which is the system that Lincoln was a tool of and which, as the 19th century progressed (predictably, ineluctably worsened, that is), made tools of nearly everyone. Though not Thomas Edison. Edison was cunning. He ''didn't just invent electrical equipment,'' Zinn reminds us, ''he marketed it as well.'' 
 Though the light bulb has worked out fairly well for all of us -- male and female, black and white, Republican and Democrat -- Zinn's depressive progressivism doesn't include this fact, but instead leaves us with the impression that every dime that landed in Edison's pocket would have been better off staying in someone else's. Teenagers who are lazy or bad at science may find this message comforting. Don't bother to invent things, kids, and certainly don't market them. America will be a better place.
 That America is not a better place -- that it finds itself almost globally despised, mired in war, self-doubt and random violence -- is also a fact, of course, but not one that Zinn's brand of history seems equal to. His stick-figure pageant of capitalist cupidity can account, in its fashion, for terrorism -- as when, in the second volume, subtitled ''Class Struggle to the War on Terror,'' he notes that Sept. 11 was an assault on ''symbols of American wealth and power'' -- but it doesn't address the themes of religious zealotry, technological change and cultural confusion that animate what I was taught in high school to label ''current events'' but that contemporary students may as well just call ''the weirdness.'' The line from Columbus to Columbine, from the first Independence Day to the Internet, and from the Boston Tea Party to Baghdad is a wandering line, not a party line. As for the ''new possibilities'' it points to, I can't see them clearly. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Thomas Edison didn't just invent electrical equipment,'' Zinn says. ''He marketed it.'' (Photo by From ''A Young People's History of the United States'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); TERRORISM (77%); SLAVERY (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



338 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Where the Arts Were Too Liberal

BYLINE: By Michael Goldfarb. 
Michael Goldfarb, a former public radio correspondent, is the author of ''Ahmad's War, Ahmad's Peace: Surviving Under Saddam, Dying in the New Iraq.''

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
THIS is an obituary for a great American institution whose death was announced this week. After 155 years, Antioch College is closing.
 Established in 1852 in Yellow Springs, Ohio, by the kind of free-thinking Christian group found only in the United States, Antioch College was egalitarian in the best tradition of American liberalism. The college's motto, not in Latin or Greek but plain English, was coined by Horace Mann, its first president: ''Be ashamed to die until you have won some victory for humanity.''
 For most of its history the institution lived up to that calling. It was one of the first coeducational colleges in the United States, and at a time when slavery was being practiced 70 miles to the south of its campus, it was one of the first colleges not to make a person's race a factor in admission. It was also the first to appoint a woman as a full professor. All this happened before Lincoln became president. 
 Later Antioch would incorporate pragmatism, that most native of American philosophies, into its curriculum, balancing a student's experience of learning inside the ivory tower with regular jobs off campus in the ''real'' world. 
 Yet it was in the high tide of liberal activism that the college lost its way. I know this firsthand, because I entered Antioch in the fall of 1968, just when the tide was nearing its peak. So much of the history of 1968 reflects an America in crisis, but if you were young and idealistic it was a time of unparalleled excitement. The 2,000 students at Antioch, living in a picture-pretty American village, provided a laboratory for various social experiments of the time. 
 With a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation, the college increased African-American enrollment to 25 percent in 1968, from virtually nil in previous years. The new students were recruited from the inner city. At around the same time, Antioch created coeducational residence halls, with no adult supervision. Sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll became the rule, as you might imagine, and there was enormous peer pressure to be involved in all of them. No member of the faculty or administration, and certainly none of the students, could guess what these sudden changes would mean. They were simply embraced in the spirit of the time. 
 I moved into this sociological petri dish from a well-to-do suburb. Within my first week I twice had guns drawn on me, once in fun and once in a state of drunken for real by a couple of ex-cons whom one of my classmates, in the interest of breaking down class barriers, had invited to live with her.
 My roommate began the tortured process of coming out of the closet, first by pursuing women relentlessly and then accepting the truth and allowing himself to be pursued by men. He needed to talk all this out with himself when he came in each morning at 4 a.m., and in the face of his personal crisis, there was little I could do to assert my right to sleep. It was a mad, dangerous and painful time, but I do think I was made stronger for having to deal with these experiences. 
 Each semester, the college seemed to create a new program. ''We need to take education to the people'' became a mantra, and so satellite campuses began to sprout around the country. Something called Antioch University was created, and every faculty member whose marriage was going bad or who simply couldn't hack living in a village of 3,000 people and longed for the city came up with a proposal to start a new campus. 
 ''It was liberalism gone mad,'' a former professor, Hannah Goldberg, once told me, and she was right. The college seemed to forget the pragmatism that had been a key to its ethos, and tried blindly to extend its mission beyond education to social reform. But there were too many new programs and too little cash reserve to deal with the inevitable growing pains. 
 For the increasingly vocal radical members of the community, change wasn't going far enough or fast enough. They wanted revolution, but out there in the middle of the cornfields the only ''bourgeois'' thing to fight was Antioch College itself. The let's-try-anything, free-thinking society of 1968 evolved into a catastrophic blend of legitimate paranoia (Nixon did keep enemies lists, and the F.B.I. did infiltrate campuses) and postadolescent melodrama. In 1973, a strike trashed the campus and effectively destroyed Antioch's spirit of community. The next year, student enrollment was down by half. 
 Most of the talented faculty members began to leave for other institutions, and the few who were dedicated to rebuilding the Yellow Springs campus found themselves increasingly isolated. The college that gave the Antioch University system its name had become just another profit center in a larger enterprise and not even the most important one at that. 
 Antioch College became a rump where the most illiberal trends in education became entrenched. Since it is always easier to impose a conformist ethos on a small group than a large one, as the student body dwindled, free expression and freedom of thought were crushed under the weight of ultraliberal orthodoxy. By the 1990s the breadth of challenging ideas a student might encounter at Antioch had narrowed, and the college became a place not for education, but for indoctrination. Everyone was on the same page, a little to the left of The Nation in worldview.
 Much of this conformist thinking focused on gender politics, and it culminated in the notorious sexual offense prevention policy. Enacted in 1993, the policy dictated that a person needed express permission for each stage in seduction. (''May I touch your breast?'' ''May I remove your bra?'' And so on.) In two decades students went from being practitioners of free love to prisoners of gender. Antioch became like one of those Essene communities in the Judean desert in the first century after Christ that, convinced of their own purity, died out while waiting for a golden age that never came.
 I grieve for the place with all the sadness, anger and self-reproach you feel when a loved one dies unnecessarily. I grieve for Antioch the way I grieve for the hope of 1968 washed away in a tide of self-inflated rhetoric, self-righteousness and self-indulgence.
 The ideals of social justice and economic fairness we embraced then are still right and deeply American. The discipline to turn those ideals into realities was what Antioch, its community and the generation it led was lacking. I fear it still is. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); SHOOTINGS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (63%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



339 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; The Way We Live Now: Idea Lab; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Home Alone

BYLINE: By Erica Goode. 
Erica Goode is a science editor at The New York Times.

 BODY:
For decades, students of American society have offered dueling theories about how encountering racial and ethnic diversity affects the way we live. One says that simple contact -- being tossed into a stew of different cultures, values, languages and styles of dress -- is likely to nourish tolerance and trust. Familiarity, in this view, trumps insularity. Others argue that just throwing people together is rarely enough to breed solidarity: when diversity increases, they assert, people tend to stick to their own groups and distrust those who are different from them.
But what if diversity had an even more complex and pervasive effect? What if, at least in the short term, living in a highly diverse city or town led residents to distrust pretty much everybody, even people who looked like them? What if it made people withdraw into themselves, form fewer close friendships, feel unhappy and powerless and stay home watching television in the evening instead of attending a neighborhood barbecue or joining a community project? 
 This is the unsettling picture that emerges from a huge nationwide telephone survey by the famed Harvard political scientist Robert Putnam and his colleagues. ''Diversity seems to trigger not in-group/out-group division, but anomie or social isolation,'' Putnam writes in the June issue of the journal Scandinavian Political Studies. ''In colloquial language, people living in ethnically diverse settings appear to 'hunker down' -- that is, to pull in like a turtle.''
 In highly diverse cities and towns like Los Angeles, Houston and Yakima, Wash., the survey found, the residents were about half as likely to trust people of other races as in homogenous places like Fremont, Mich., or rural South Dakota, where, Putnam noted, ''diversity means inviting a few Norwegians to the annual Swedish picnic.''
 More significant, they were also half as likely to trust people of their own race. They claimed fewer close friends. They were more apt to agree that ''television is my most important form of entertainment.'' They had less confidence in local government and less confidence in their own ability to exert political influence. They were more likely to join protest marches but less likely to register to vote. They rated their happiness as generally lower. And this diversity effect continued to show up even when a community's population density, average income, crime levels, rates of home ownership and a host of other factors were taken into account.
 It was not a result that Putnam, the author of the much-discussed 2000 book ''Bowling Alone,'' was looking for when he sat down six years ago to examine the mass of data he had collected. He was hoping to build on his earlier work, which described a precipitous decline in the nation's ''social capital,'' the formal and informal networks -- bowling leagues, parent-teacher associations, fraternal organizations, pick-up basketball games, youth service groups -- that tie people together, shore up civic engagement and forge bonds of trust and reciprocity. Now he wanted to find out more about how social capital varied regionally and over time.
 But the diversity finding was so surprising that Putnam said his first thought was that maybe something was wrong with the data. He and his research team spent five years testing other explanations. Maybe people in more diverse areas had less political clout and thus fewer amenities, like playgrounds and pothole-free streets, putting them in a misanthropic mood; or maybe diversity caused ''hunkering down'' only in people who were older or richer or white or female. But the effect did not go away. When colleagues who heard about the results protested, ''I bet you haven't thought about X'' -- a frequent occurrence, Putnam said -- the researchers went back and looked at X.
 The idea that it is diversity (the researchers used the census's standard racial categories to define diversity) that drives social capital down has its critics. Among them is Steven Durlauf, an economist at the University of Wisconsin and a critic of Putnam's past work, who said he thinks some other characteristic, as yet unidentified, explains the lowered trust and social withdrawal of people living in diverse areas. But without clear evidence to the contrary, Putnam says, he has to believe the conclusion is solid. 
 Few would question that it is provocative. The public discourse on diversity runs at a high temperature. Told by one side, the narrative of how different ethnic and racial groups come together in schools, workplaces, churches and shopping centers can sound as if it was lifted from ''Sesame Street.'' Told by the other, it often carries the shrill tones of a recent caller to a radio talk show on immigration reform: ''The school my kid goes to is 45 percent Mexican,'' he said, ''and I don't see this as being a good thing for this country. Do we want to turn into a Latin American country?''
 Putnam's argument is more nuanced. Diversity has clear benefits, he says, among them economic growth and enhanced creativity -- more top-flight scientists, more entrepreneurs, more artists. But difference is also disconcerting, he maintains, ''and people like me, who are in favor of diversity, don't do ourselves any favors by denying that it takes time to become comfortable,'' Putnam says. 
 Why that discomfort seems to translate into social isolation and a weakening of civic bonds remains anyone's guess. Studies by Wendy Berry Mendes, a social psychologist at Harvard, and her colleagues find that when research subjects play a cooperative game with someone of another race, they can show physiological signs of distress -- reduced cardiac efficiency and arterial constriction, for example. On a daily basis, this alarmed reaction might make people pull inward. Putnam himself speculates that, with kaleidoscopic changes going on around them, people in diverse communities might experience a kind of system overload, shutting down ''in the presence of confusing or multiple messages from the environment.''
 Still, in Putnam's view, the findings are neither cause for despair nor a brief against diversity. If this country's history is any guide, what people perceive as unfamiliar and disturbing -- what they see as ''other'' -- can and does change over time. Seemingly intractable group divisions can give way to a larger, overarching identity. When he was in high school in the 1950s, Putnam notes, he knew the religion of almost every one of the 150 students in his class. At the time, religious intermarriage was uncommon, and knowing whether a potential mate was a Methodist, a Catholic or a Jew was crucial information. Half a century later, for most Americans, the importance of religion as a mating test has dwindled to near irrelevance, ''hardly more important than left- or right-handedness to romance.''
 The rising marriage rates across racial and ethnic lines in a younger generation, raised in a more diverse world, suggest the current markers of difference can also fade in salience. In some places, they already have: soldiers have more interracial friendships than civilians, Putnam's research finds, and evangelical churches in the South show high rates of racial integration. ''If you're asking me if, in the long run, I'm optimistic,'' Putnam says, ''the answer is yes.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Matthew Pillsbury
 Bonni Benrubi Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); ETHNICITY (90%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); CRIME RATES (71%); CITIES (69%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (67%); WRITERS (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YAKIMA, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORWAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



340 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/Mercedes-Benz AMG; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: AMG: Passcode to Absolute Power in a Mercedes-Benz

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
MUSCLE cars are inseparable from America and the '60s, their innocence sweetly harmonized by the Beach Boys, their more sinister side chronicled in films from ''Bullitt'' to ''Grindhouse.''
 But while they burned rubber in their time, only a handful of muscle cars, the ultrarare L88 Corvette among them, could actually top 400 horsepower.
Today's revival of the old horsepower wars still features familiar Motown combatants like Corvette, Mustang and Charger. But it is Mercedes-Benz, once known for conservative sedans and sleepy diesels, that is overwhelming the competition. Forget 400 horses: the AMG division of Mercedes is the new King of Zing, churning out models that top 600 horsepower. 
 In recent months, I sampled AMG's four-alarm buffet in every imaginable style and portion, and my taste buds are still on fire. Among them was the E63, at first glance just another E-Class sedan, the Ford Taurus of upscale suburbia. Yet with 507 horsepower under its hood, the E63 is one of several Jekyll and Hyde AMGs. It can give that young hooligan at the stoplight in a Mustang a paddling he won't forget -- and then revert to being an upstanding citizen for a trip to the local boutiques. 
 Founded in 1967 as an independent racing shop specializing in Mercedes cars, AMG -- it took its name from the initials of its founders, Hans-Warner Aufrecht and Erhard Melcher, and from Mr. Aufrecht's birthplace of Grossaspach, Germany -- the company used racing success as a springboard to develop speedy production Benzes. Its first American model arrived in 1995, the C36 AMG sedan. 
 Since joining the DaimlerChrysler fold in 1999, the performance division has seen annual sales quadruple to about 20,000 cars worldwide. And while these cars seem tailor-made for the autobahn, Americans snap up by far the most, roughly 40 percent.
 To see what these mad scientists have wrought, consider that competing performance model lines, which include BMW's M and Cadillac's V series, tend to offer two or three models with about 400 horsepower on average. In contrast, AMG currently offers 16 models. Eight of them have or exceed 500 horses. Three more deliver 604 horsepower. By late 2008, the line will grow to 18 models. 
 Yet what is a bit strange about this market assault is how Mercedes seems determined to bolt an AMG engine onto every last car (and truck) in its lineup, whether or not it makes sense under traditional rules of performance. Craving a 503-horsepower family S.U.V. or crossover? Step right up for the ML63 and R63. How about a nuclear-powered station wagon with a tiny pair of rear-facing seats? Mr. Cleaver, your E63 wagon awaits. 
 Then there's the S65. This 2.5-ton super sedan, with a twin-turbocharged 12-cylinder engine of 604 horsepower, can outrun a Ferrari F430 from the stoplight to 150 m.p.h. -- in just 21.1 seconds, according to Car and Driver magazine -- as passengers get massaged by their seats while humming along with Wagner coming from the Harmon Kardon sound system. 
 Yet once I had my fill of mashing the gas and watching the scenery go all hyperspace, the S65 ultimately ranked low on my list of favorite AMGs. Its size prevents this autobahn limo from ever feeling like a sports sedan. At $185,000, this expensive AMG costs as much as his-and-hers versions of the S550, essentially the same fine sedan but with a mere 380-horsepower V-8. When I drove the S65, I had the impression that almost no one could tell it apart from the $88,000 version. 
 If it's extra attention you seek, an AMG may not be for you anyway. Cognoscenti can spot their larger wheels, racier bodies and AMG badges from a hundred yards. But many of the lavishly engineered goodies are found under the skin -- not only in engines, but in suspensions and brakes so powerful that even the burliest AMGs stop as quickly and surely as many lightweight sports cars. 
 To buyers, that subtlety can be part of the attraction. While many AMGs will scorch the road like a screaming yellow Lamborghini, they're more likely to fly under the radar. And unlike the crude-riding muscle cars of yore, the AMGs are as smooth and refined as any top luxury car, stuffed with the latest toys and safety technology. 
 Still, some well-heeled buyers will blanch at the AMG's price premiums over garden-variety Mercedes. Those range from an additional $19,000 for the SLK55 roadster to an eye-popping $96,000 extra for the S65. 
 No doubt the roughly 400 financial titans worldwide who will spring for an S65 this year are probably buying it with pocket change. But in trying to apply rational thought to which Mercedes will truly emerge as butterflies from the AMG cocoon -- in style, performance, attitude and price -- a few do stand out. 
 Among the most seductive are a pair of sedans stuffed with Deutsche dynamite, the E63 and CLS 63. They're two of many models blessed with AMG's new 6.3-liter V-8 that's simply one of the fiercest V-8s ever bolted to a production automobile. 
 This hand-built beauty, with a 7,200-r.p.m. redline, derives part of its advantage from sheer size: even the sophisticated 10-cylinder engines of BMW and Audi, at a respective 5.0 liters and 5.2 liters, can't match the Benz in cubic inches, torque or acceleration. 
 The engine also represents a welcome change in AMG's performance philosophy. The brand is moving away from supercharging -- pumping air into the engine to boost power -- in favor of naturally aspirated engines so strong that they don't need artificial enhancement. The V-8s produce as much power as before, without the upsetting power surges of some supercharged AMGs. 
 I drove the CLS63 from New York to Pocono Raceway in Pennsylvania, where I also tested other AMGs on a road course that integrates a banked curve and straightway from the speedway's Nascar oval. And like every other model with the new V-8, the CLS has a way of turning even everyday streets into your own personal racetrack. 
 Already a somewhat impractical high-profile car, the swoopy CLS made an ideal patient for the doctors at AMG. The operation included the 507-horsepower V-8; an AMG-modified seven-speed automatic transmission, sport seats and amazing brakes with six-piston calipers up front. 
 While the E63 looks stealthier than the CLS, it proved to be the most entertaining sport sedan I'd ever driven from Mercedes. The surprisingly neutral handling matches its killer V-8. According to Car and Driver, the E63 runs from 0 to 60 in just 4.2 seconds, a half second quicker than the BMW M5.
 Both CLS and E63 cost about $27,000 more than their basic V-8 versions. But they're priced competitively with luxury performers like the BMW M5 or Jaguar XKR. At the other end of the scale is the new CLK63 AMG Black Series, basically a street version of the current Formula One safety car minus the flashing roof lights. The CLK is the first Black Series car sold in the United States, lighter and racier than your everyday AMG (the first order of business is tearing out the back seat to cut weight). 
 This apparently costs you a great deal of money. Its price of $138,375 is almost enough to buy three copies of the base-model CLK 350. But don't listen to me: its run of 350 copies for the United States is nearly sold out.
 The SL55 ($132,775) and SL65 ($189,375) make some sense, at least by super-rich standards. Hopped-up versions of what's already a fantasy GT convertible, the basic SL550, they're a blast to drive. AMG also supplied the supercharged V-8 for the Mercedes McLaren SLR, a scissor-door supercar with a $452,750 starting price (not including gas guzzler tax), up to 650 horsepower and a 209 m.p.h. top speed. A roadster version goes on sale this fall. 
 Some models seem silly and superfluous. Prime among these is the R63, a racy take on Mercedes' misbegotten minivan, the slow-selling R-Class. On styling alone, the ML63 S.U.V. whips the R-Class version. But while the nearly $90,000 ML63 accelerates as quickly as you'd expect with 503 horsepower under the hood, it falls short in the critical fun-to-drive department, lacking the zesty handling of a serious performance S.U.V. like the Porsche Cayenne. 
 Still, AMG's approach is nothing if not democratic. To wit, why should two-seat sports car buyers have all the fun? Volker Mornhinweg, the Mercedes-AMG chairman, said that the array of choices had helped fuel the exponential growth of AMG. 
 In fact, my sleeper-model AMG is also the smallest and least expensive: the SLK55. The original SLK was widely derided as soft and feminine. But its current incarnation, the current second-generation SLK350 is a surprisingly legitimate sports car. Bulked up with a 355 horsepower 5.4-liter V-8, the handsome two-seat SLK 55 feels like the modern offspring of a Cobra and a Benz SL. And its $64,600 price isn't out of line compared with less-powerful models like the Porsche Boxster S.
 O.K., granola-eaters, I know what you've been dying to ask: What about the gas mileage? Actually, it stinks. E.P.A. economy ratings often fudge the truth, but the AMGs' numbers may make an oil sheik blush. The CLS63's rating, for example, is 12 m.p.g. in the city and 18 highway; when I flogged the gas pedal, mileage dipped to 11-12 m.p.g. 
 Now, on one hand, I feel that any modern car should be able to beat the mileage of a '72 Cadillac Eldorado. On the other, it's hard for me to work up much indignation toward cars like these AMGs, especially when I'm the one driving and grinning like an idiot. If they're indeed socially irresponsible, it's in the manner of a charming lout whose style and chutzpah lets him get away with anything. If that means I should be hauled off to the Albert Gore Re-education Camp in fast-warming Siberia, then so be it. INSIDE TRACK: Rides of the Valkyries. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: HIT OR MISS AMG's high-performance touch has been applied across the Mercedes line. At left, some models in which the AMG formula works. But it falls flat in the largest sedan and two trucks at right.
SLK55
E63
CLS63
S65
R63
 G55 Chart: ''The Lust for Luxury Meets the Need for Speed'' lists features and specifications for selected automobiles. (pg. 16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (90%); HORSES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); RETAILERS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



341 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Ocean Hill-Brownsville, Brooklyn; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: At Long Last, Developers Show an Interest

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BLEYER

 BODY:
A DENSELY packed 1,200-acre swath of central Brooklyn, Ocean Hill-Brownsville is not among the neighborhoods to have been swept up in the borough's recent renaissance. 
 Its older housing stock is generally less elegant and well preserved than that in nearby Bedford-Stuyvesant. Its streets are not lined with charming cafes or whimsical boutiques. Its empty lots are not sprouting slick, glass-sheathed condominiums.
Yet Ocean Hill-Brownsville has undergone its own striking transformation since the 1960s and '70s, when its upwardly mobile population swiftly decamped to the suburbs, public services declined, crime spiked and the neighborhood became synonymous with urban poverty and decay. 
 In the 1980s and '90s, thousands of low-cost row houses were built under what is known as the Nehemiah program in Ocean Hill-Brownsville as well as in neighboring East New York. The tidy single-family homes, built on vacant city-owned land with construction loans from a consortium of churches, were quickly occupied, and the program was celebrated as a success in helping to stabilize the blighted neighborhood with committed homeowners. 
 With much of Brownsville's underused land stocked with Nehemiah homes, subsidized development in the last few years has been concentrated closer to Ocean Hill, the section of the conjoined neighborhoods north of Eastern Parkway. Hundreds of new homes have budded there recently, anchoring even more homeowners in the area.
 Brenda Russell is one of those homeowners. A statuesque woman with a throaty laugh, she seized an opportunity last year to buy a three-story, two-family tawny brick row house with a single-car garage and prim backyard on St. Mark's Avenue.
 Ms. Russell, a 48-year-old auditor and divorced mother of two who had been renting an apartment in Mill Basin, bought her house for $305,000, with the help of a $70,000 city subsidy. Her own vague impression of Ocean Hill-Brownsville has undergone a shift since she moved in a year ago. 
 ''I heard it had a lot of gang activity, but so far I haven't seen that,'' she said on a sunny Sunday afternoon, smiling and waving at neighbors who passed in front of her house. ''I was just happy to get started again.''
 Police data confirm that crime is less rampant and that the area no longer fully deserves its notorious reputation. In the 73rd Precinct, which encompasses Ocean Hill-Brownsville, murder rates fell 63 percent from 1990 to 2005; robberies were down 79 percent; and felony assaults decreased 51 percent. Still, crime remains a sobering fact. In 2005, there were 22 murders, and 597 robberies and 562 felony assaults were reported. 
 Those who review Ocean Hill-Brownville's recent history generally laud its improvements and express optimism about its future. Its renewal has been affirmed lately by the presence of private developers building on scores of vacant lots scattered throughout the area. Local housing advocates consider the situation positive as long as the city continues to balance the neighborhood with subsidized homes.
 ''The notion that the area now attracts builders who want to build at market is astounding compared to where it was in the '80s,'' said Michael Gecan, a senior organizer for East Brooklyn Congregations, the church consortium that facilitated the Nehemiah homes beginning in the '80s. ''That's a reality that no one would have predicted 25 years ago.'' What You'll Find 
 A largely African-American community of 85,000, according to the last census data, Ocean Hill-Brownsville is capped by Broadway to the north, a jagged boundary of Saratoga Avenue, Ralph Avenue and East 98th Street to the west and Van Sinderen Avenue and the Long Island Rail Road to the east. Its southern edge is scooped up by Linden Boulevard. 
 South of Pitkin Avenue is a cluster of towering New York City Housing Authority projects whose surrounding streets are populated with hundreds of low-lying Nehemiah homes. Many of those shipshape two-story brick houses have gated driveways, finished basements and lovingly tended gardens.
 The Ocean Hill side is endowed with three-story limestones, brownstones and brick buildings, some stripped of architectural ornament. Dispersed around the area are rows of handsome new two-family homes that illustrate the sevenfold leap in residential construction permits issued from 2000 to 2003. The construction, some say, has had an unintended consequence of inspiring others to spiff up their own properties with new windows and the like. 
 ''If you're next to a newly constructed house, you're going to invest some money into upgrading yours,'' said Viola D. Greene-Walker, the district manager of Brooklyn Community Board 16, which represents Ocean Hill-Brownsville.
 One phenomenon in its infancy in the neighborhood is the conversion of rental buildings into condominiums, according to Rene Santiago, a sales director for Massey Knakal Realty Services. He cited one such conversion of a 16-unit building on Thomas Boyland Street and predicted that there would be more to come.
 ''A lot of people who own homes in the area and have been there a long time are tired of dealing with three floors and tenants,'' Mr. Santiago said. ''They think, 'Let me buy a condo; it's easier to maintain.' ''
 Also novel in the area is the emergence on a half-acre lot at the intersection of Eastern Parkway and Atlantic Avenue of a $13 million 41-unit condominium complex by Habitat for Humanity. The three energy-efficient buildings, for which ground was broken earlier this month, will be the group's largest and greenest project to date in New York and will be built largely by volunteers and future residents. Josh Lockwood of the local Habitat chapter, said that 4,000 applications to live in the condo had already been received. 
 A persistent complaint in the neighborhood is that retailing has not kept pace with residential development. Pitkin Avenue, once among Brooklyn's most fashionable shopping destinations, remains heavily patronized. But results of a residents' survey released last year by the Brooklyn Economic Development Corporation underscored a desire for a greater variety of goods and services, including restaurants, bookstores, gift stores and banks.
 Margaret Nelson, the director of real estate programs for the economic development organization, said she was ''optimistic that once retailers understand the demand, they will take advantage of going into this market and serving residents.'' What You'll Pay 
 ''Brownsville is one of the neighborhoods that haven't gotten the boom other neighborhoods have,'' said Alen Zhitomirsky, a senior listing agent for Foxtons. ''You can find great deals that you can't find anywhere else in Brooklyn.''
 Still, prices have appreciated considerably for homes in Ocean Hill-Brownsville since the '80s, when the Nehemiah houses sold for as little as $65,000. Mr. Zhitomirsky noted that a three-bedroom house on Lott Avenue had recently closed for $353,000, and a four-bedroom house on Strauss Street for $367,000. Average prices for single-family homes are generally $350,000 to $400,000, he said. 
 Among two- and three-family homes, those built with public subsidies are generally $400,000 to $450,000, according to Mr. Santiago of Massey Knakal, while those built privately cost $600,000 to $650,000.
 ''There's demand for two- and three-family homes,'' he said, ''and people buying these are normally from the area or people getting priced out of Bed-Stuy.''
 Rents are typically around $900 for a one-bedroom, $1,100 for a two-bedroom and up to $1,300 for a three-bedroom, Mr. Santiago said. What to Do 
 Ocean Hill-Brownsville's largest park is the 10-acre Betsy Head Memorial Playground, which includes tennis courts, baseball fields, a running track, a pavilion and one of the city's 11 Works Progress Administration-era swimming pools built under Robert Moses.
 The Brownsville Recreation Center on Linden Boulevard has a swimming pool, weight room, computer room and other indoor offerings. 
 Shopping is sparse, though residents throng historic Pitkin Avenue for sportswear, shoes and cellphones. Block parties are popular in the summer, often drawing extended families into the street with booming sound systems, festive dancing and grills laden with hot dogs and ribs. The Schools 
 There are at least 16 public elementary schools in Ocean Hill-Brownsville, including Public School 155 on Herkimer Street and Public School 41 on Thatford Avenue. 
 Public School 156 on Sutter Avenue reopened in 2003 in a striking new building encased in brick and glass with a 450-seat auditorium, two science labs and wireless technology.
 At Teachers Preparatory High School, a middle and high school on Bristol Street, 80 percent of students passed the state Regents exam in English in 2006, versus 50 percent citywide. In math, 82 percent received passing scores, compared with 54 percent citywide. The History 
 An agrarian expanse of countryside in the 1800s, the area underwent a population boom after the Fulton Street elevated train made it more accessible in 1889. The neighborhood became a virtual mirror of the Jewish Lower East Side, crammed through the 1940s with synagogue-goers and political radicals, historical accounts show. After World War II, residents drained to the suburbs. Towering public housing projects were concentrated in Brownsville, and the area experienced a steep decline along with municipal neglect. A dispute in 1968 involving the Ocean Hill-Brownsville school district and the United Federation of Teachers led to three teachers strikes and became emblematic of the wrenching racial division of the era. The Commute 
 Subway lines lace through the neighborhood. On the northern edge of Ocean Hill are the J and Z lines, which join with the A, C and L lines at Broadway Junction station. Farther south, the elevated No. 3 train makes three stops in Brownsville. 
 From the East New York stop on the Long Island Rail Road, Flatbush Avenue and Jamaica Station are both about 10 minutes away. After a transfer at Jamaica, Midtown Manhattan is a 20-minute ride away. Going Forward 
 Subsidized housing safeguards Ocean Hill-Brownsville as an enclave for low-wage families, but the neighborhood sorely needs an influx of diverse retailing to help it thrive. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: TURNING A CORNER -- These row houses at St. Marks Avenue and Thomas S. Boyland Street typify the new development in Brownsville.
On the Market: 542 BAINBRIDGE STREET -- A 5,585-square-foot three-story brick building with six one-bedroom units, listed at $650,000. (718) 239-8999
606 SARATOGA AVENUE -- A two-unit town house with three-bedroom owner's unit and two-bedroom rental, listed for $575,000. (800) 369-8667
 117 LEGION STREET -- A two-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath town house, listed at $379,000. (800) 369-8667 (Photographs by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) Map of Brooklyn highlighting Ocean Hill-Brownsville. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); FELONIES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (84%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); MURDER (75%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); SUBURBS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); RELIGION (67%); GANGS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



342 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Crashing Cars When They're Still a Gleam in the Designer's Eye

BYLINE: By STUART F. BROWN

 BODY:
WITH fuel prices high and the pressure to reduce carbon dioxide emissions rising, automakers are finding themselves in the familiar squeeze of balancing customer wants with government mandates. 
 The most direct path to improving fuel economy -- designing cars that are lighter and smaller -- presents many challenges, including a population that is bigger and more feature conscious. While clever marketing may overcome that resistance to small cars, federal safety standards cannot be compromised, and the physics of a car crash gives the advantage to larger, heavier vehicles.
Still, development of more compact vehicles seems healthy. General Motors dipped its toe in these waters with a trio of pug-nosed microcar designs for the auto-show circuit this year; the tiny Mercedes-Benz Smart cars will be here next year; and Honda, Nissan and Toyota have all recently added smaller cars to their lines. 
 Companies like BMW and Mazda are considering bringing models smaller than any they now sell in the United States. And while Americans have yet to embrace smaller cars with enthusiasm, sales have grown recently: Automotive News, a trade publication, reported that sales in the class rose nearly 20 percent from March to May of this year. 
 Even so, a basic question remains: are these little cars going to sacrifice us when we crash in them? 
 Offsetting the images of test dummies being thrown about as the cars they are belted into crash into barriers is the good news that auto engineers have an increasingly powerful predictive tool to push safety forward: computerized crash simulation. Lots of math, and some hot-rod microprocessors, help get the job done.
 The accuracy and speed of the simulations enables engineers to conduct many more tests, and to put their results to work right away. Automakers are willing to invest in this technology to bring products to market more quickly.
 Crash safety loomed as a question for BMW when the company decided to reintroduce the Mini in the United States. Would people be too scared of accidents to buy the cute little coupes? As it turned out, Minis have sold beyond initial expectations, perhaps because the shoppers' concerns were assuaged by good results in the government crash tests.
 Meeting crash-safety standards has become such a primary consideration for automakers that they are using powerful computers and software to test car designs that exist only on computer screens -- long before the first physical prototypes have been built. These simulation systems and the engineers using them will be getting an intense workout as the automakers strive to build crashworthiness into ever-smaller vehicles.
 The virtual crash tests fit into a larger scheme in which all design and planning functions are done on computer, including the layout of the assembly plant. I.B.M. created a computing system for this integrated process, which it calls product lifecycle management. 
 The precise details of how the front, rear, or side of a car crumples during an accident demand a calculation of gargantuan dimensions -- too big, really. But software experts attack the towering problem by breaking it down into much-smaller and more digestible tasks, or elements, that computers are good at crunching. This discipline is known as finite-element modeling.
 About two decades ago, when crash simulation was in its infancy, a computer model of a car crash consisted of a few thousand elements that tracked the impact forces as a crashing vehicle's kinetic energy was absorbed by its buckling and crumpling sheet metal. Today these computer models are huge -- typically two or three million elements -- giving engineers a fine-resolution picture of the loads in a crash. Armed with this detailed understanding, engineers can design structures to best absorb or deflect energy and protect the occupants.
 ''In the last 20 years, simulation has gone from very simple models where we solved a system of perhaps 1,000 equations simultaneously,'' Reza Sadeghi, chief technology officer at MSC Software, a developer of specialized simulation programs, said. ''Now we can solve five million equations simultaneously, and some vehicle manufacturers have put in as many as 30 million equations to look really deeply into a crash event and its effect on the passengers.'' 
 Like the frames on movie film, a crash simulation is divided into time steps -- lots of them. Mr. Sadeghi said the time between the start of a crash and 10 milliseconds (thousandths of a second) into the event was often sliced into 300,000 individual steps. 
 Across its worldwide operations, General Motors says it conducts about 10,000 crash simulations a month. In a typical vehicle-development program, computer-aided design models of a car's shape and structure are translated into tiny elements; each has a set of equations associated with it. The software contains descriptions of the physical properties of all the materials -- steel, aluminum and plastic -- used in building a car. 
 The software must also take account of changes that occur when sheets of steel are die-stamped into contoured body panels. Areas of a part may become thinner during stamping. Suppliers of components like seats and steering columns often conduct their own finite-element modeling, which can be merged into an automaker's model of an entire vehicle. 
 The mature state of crash simulation today means that car companies can conduct many more tests than they could in the days when the only method was building physical prototypes and crashing them. 
 ''For every full-vehicle physical crash test we conduct, we generate as many as 175 simulations,'' said Robert Lange, G.M.'s executive director for vehicle structure and safety integration. 
 G.M. engineers have libraries of different crash scenarios they call collision-load cases. Cars in development are subjected to more than 150 simulated collision loads, about a quarter of which are required by the government. Their goal is to see early in a vehicle's design evolution where things need to be improved. The simulations allow them to make structural changes on the computer screen, before any metal parts have been built. 
 What knobs can the engineers turn? In some cases changing the thickness of a material, or the alloy composition of the high-strength steel used in a part does the job. Another way to change the crash behavior of a structure is to switch to a different parts-joining method. Spot welding, bolting and adhesive bonding all give assemblies different characteristics when they are subjected to crash loads. Fine tuning these variables is how crashworthy designs come into being. 
 ''In any class of vehicle, if you want to improve fuel economy, reducing mass is one of the big factors,'' said Tom Tecco, G.M.'s global director of computer-aided engineering and test systems. ''How do you reduce weight and still maintain all of your standards for safety and crash? These simulation tools really help us understand it.'' 
 In 1986, when the first full-body crash simulation was conducted on a Citroen car, a special-purpose supercomputer was needed to handle the calculations. That machine was built by the supercomputer maker Cray Research. Just two years after the first Citroen simulation, which had about 8,000 elements, automakers around the world had adopted computer simulation to speed up their crashworthiness engineering. A year later, the simulations had sprouted 35,000 elements. 
 The software code used in simulations evolved from programs developed in the national weapons laboratories, where they are used to model bomb explosions and missile impacts. 
 Greg Clifford, now automotive manager of I.B.M.'s deep computing team, worked at Cray back in those days. ''Supercomputers found their killer application in auto crash simulation,'' he recalls. ''Everyone wanted them.'' 
 But the development of increasingly powerful microprocessors and new software in the 1990s let automakers adopt a different and less-costly strategy: cluster computing. I.B.M. supplies companies like G.M. with hundreds of industrial-strength (but not super) computers that are ganged together into what's known as a parallel architecture, like a team of horses pulling a wagon. By splitting the number-crunching task among 20 or 30 microprocessors, engineers speed up the processing so that it can typically be accomplished overnight. 
 Simulation engineers like to think that someday the entire development of a new car will be done in silicon, with no physical crashes required, although they admit that day is still a long way off. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: VIRTUAL COLLISIONS By doing crash tests on computers like the sequence shown above, automakers save development time and money. Among other benefits, far fewer prototypes need to be built for the safety tests. (Photo by I.B.M.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); MODELING & SIMULATION (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (75%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (75%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



343 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Tough Choice: ARM or Fixed-Rate?

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
MANY homeowners with adjustable-rate mortgages, or ARMs, have taken advantage of low interest on fixed-rate mortgages in recent months to refinance into those less risky loans. But in the last few weeks, as rates on fixed-interest mortgages have risen, that decision has become more difficult for some borrowers, mortgage industry executives and analysts say. 
 Many borrowers who took out ARMs in 2004 and 2005 with interest rates in the 5 percent range, for example, will soon face their first adjustment, and their rates are quite likely to rise to the high 7 percent range. 
 Until recently, interest rates on long-term fixed loans were in the low 6 percent range -- a month ago, for example, rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages hovered at about 6.25 percent. Melissa Cohn, the chief executive of the Manhattan Mortgage Company, a brokerage, said that with such a large difference between the higher adjustable rate and the fixed-loan rate, the decision to refinance to a fixed-rate loan was easy for her clients. 
 But as of last week, many lenders were charging 6.75 percent for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage. And while even the 6.75 percent rate is still much better than the high 7's, Ms. Cohn said, some borrowers are holding off in the hope that if they wait, rates on the fixed-rate loans will come down again and they will get a better refinancing deal. 
 ''If we sit down rationally, we'll see the rates are historically very, very low still,'' Ms. Cohn said, referring to the long-term loans. ''But we're a greedy crowd.''
 Susan Wachter, a professor of real estate at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, said that before the recent increase in fixed rates, borrowers with ARMs were fleeing in great numbers to fixed-rate loans. From January to March, 89 percent of homeowners who refinanced their one-year ARMs, or loans on which rates remain constant for the first 12 months, switched to fixed-rate mortgages, Dr. Wachter said, quoting figures released by Freddie Mac in May. 
 In the same period, she said, 84 percent of those who refinanced ARMs that had steady rates for the first three to seven years switched to long-term fixed-rate mortgages. 
 For new borrowers, Dr. Wachter said, she still sees anecdotal evidence that fixed-rate loans, despite the increasing rates, remain popular. 
 ''Borrowers are choosing to take less risk,'' Dr. Wachter said. ''This is how the year started off, which we hope will continue, but rising interest rates make monthly mortgage payments more expensive, so now is the time to lock in a good rate on a loan.''
 For borrowers buying new houses, choosing between an adjustable or fixed-rate loan often requires a hard look at the real estate trends in their areas. 
 Buyers in Manhattan, Ms. Cohn said, have been more willing to gamble on ARMs, because the real estate market has remained strong. But in the New York suburbs, where demand for houses has slowed, more borrowers have opted for fixed-rate mortgages, she said. 
 That is because homeowners whose houses appreciate slowly, or not at all, cannot refinance their mortgages as easily or as inexpensively as those with soaring house values -- and so they might have difficulty if they needed to refinance an adjustable-rate mortgage. 
 If a house has not appreciated in value, banks will typically ask the owners to pay upfront for the cost of processing the refinanced loan, rather than folding that cost into the new loan. 
 And now that many banks are tightening lending standards, some owners with less than 10 percent equity in their homes may be denied the opportunity to refinance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); MANHATTAN MORTGAGE CO (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (69%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



344 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1976 words

HEADLINE: Yes, the Screen Is Tiny, But the Plans Are Big

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

DATELINE: Bristol, Conn. 

 BODY:
MORE than two dozen huge white satellite dishes surround ESPN's 100-acre campus here, each transmitting and plucking electronic signals from the skies. Tucked inside that digital fence are 10 buildings, all devoted to producing and broadcasting ESPN's cable sports programs. Deeper inside the campus sits another building, largely occupied by a team of 20-somethings and a few middle-aged managers, that produces sports content for just one device: the cellphone.
 After some hits and misses in creating content for cellphones, ESPN thinks it knows how to keep up with its fans as they go about their days. Cellphones and other mobile devices, says ESPN, are natural platforms for its content. Consumers waiting in line, riding a bus or sitting in a cafeteria will use their phones to watch sports commentary or to check scores just as often as they glance at their wristwatches -- or so the thinking goes. In ESPN's view, it is only a matter of time, and mobile technology upgrades, until ''phone watching'' is as common as phone calling.
''People talk about it being the third screen,'' says John Zehr, senior vice president for digital video and mobile products at ESPN. ''I talk about it being the first screen because it's the closest to you.'' 
 ESPN isn't alone. Other companies, like CBS and MTV, as well as news organizations like The Associated Press and magazine concerns like the Hearst Corporation, are investing in original cellphone content. After all, there is no other medium that most people carry with them everywhere, and some media executives are wagering that consumers will fill their empty moments -- however fleeting -- with mobile media content.
 Apple Inc., meanwhile, is just weeks away from introducing the iPhone, a product that some analysts speculate may reshape how people use their cellphones and increase demand for content on mobile devices. ''It may start driving people's mind-set to think, 'Oh, I can do this mobilely,'' Mr. Zehr says.
 But the mobile media model is far from proven. Only 44 percent of cellphone owners use data services like video or the Internet on their phones, according to Forrester Research. Among those who use phones for more than calling, 88 percent of them use messaging, mostly text messaging, and about a quarter surf the Web, but only 7 percent watch videos. Screen size and low resolution are problems, analysts say, and many consumers seem uninterested in content on their phones. 
 ''A lot of what is being said is being driven by what is technically possible as opposed to any real understanding of just what people are doing,'' says Mike Bloxham, research director at the Center for Media Design at Ball State University in Muncie, Ind. ''Yes, it is possible to watch video on many of the cellphones people are buying,'' he added, ''but you have to look at how many people are doing that.''
 But ESPN is clearly onto something. More than nine million people visit its cellphone Web site each month, a following that surpasses the audience of most computer-based Web sites. Some sports fans apparently cannot wait to reach their homes or offices to check the score of a Patriots game or to see if their favorite pitcher has tossed a no-hitter, so tens of thousands of them receive an average of 22 ESPN text messages on their phones each week. (Since the alerts began in March, baseball updates have been the most popular.) As he finishes taping a segment for the cellphone show ''ESPN ReSet'' -- a recap of morning programs on ESPN -- Trey Wingo, the show's anchor, says mobile-content skeptics will be proved wrong. Mr. Wingo says that when ESPN made its debut as a cable channel in 1979, doubters said that ''people weren't going to watch a 24-hour sports network -- it's similar to what they're saying about cellphones now.''
 ESPN has already weathered some consumer indifference when it comes to cellphones. Early last year, it introduced its own pricey cellphone and cell service for sports fans. Despite a flashy Super Bowl commercial and lavish marketing, the phone received a ho-hum reception, and ESPN stopped offering it last fall. Still, ESPN employees here remain true believers: their phone failed, they say, because of consumers' reluctance to change phone carriers, not because of any lack of interest in mobile content.
 INDEED, ESPN's content is perfectly suited for the mobile world. Sports fans, after all, like to closely monitor their favorite players and teams -- timely information that fits comfortably into what media executives call ''snack size'' content. The News Corporation, steward of the Fox Network and Fox Studios, is so fond of short cellphone videos that it has trademarked a term to describe them: ''mobisodes.'' 
 Many mobile-content providers assume that consumers with more than a few minutes to spare won't be attached to their cellphone screens. Instead, they will call their mothers to chat, find a computer or a television, or maybe even read a book. Yet executives at broadcast networks like ABC say that this assumption is worth challenging, and they are betting that consumers will also watch longer-form content on their phones. Last month, ABC began showing full-hour episodes of shows like ''Lost'' and ''Grey's Anatomy'' on Sprint's network. 
 ''We're sort of creating another opportunity for content consumption where there wasn't one at all,'' says Albert Cheng, executive vice president for digital media at ABC.
 Mr. Cheng says people may think that short-form content works best on cellphones simply because that is the bulk of what has been developed. ''We're all experimenting,'' he says. ''I don't think any of us really knows what people want on mobile.''
 For its part, ESPN is not holding back. It already tracks what computer users read on its Web site to determine what like-minded sports fans want to view on their phones, and is pursuing a patent to protect the technologies underlying its multiscreen effort. The goal is to monitor individuals' interests on the Web site and then use the information to match cellphone content to their tastes. If someone is watching a football game on ESPN.com and has to hit the road, Mr. Zehr says, chances are that they would like the game to appear on their cellphone 20 minutes later.
 Some of ESPN's most avid phone users do not sit in front of a PC in an office all day; instead they may work as chefs, store clerks, deliverymen and construction workers. ESPN also thinks that live events will be popular on cellphones; it is showing live clips from the United States Open golf tournament, for example. Mr. Zehr says he believes that for many viewers, ESPN's mobile content will become more important than its Web content. 
 ''You start to learn more and more about your fan as they migrate from platform to platform,'' he says. ''What we're really doing now is customer relationship management.''
 DESPITE ESPN's ardor for mobility, some critics say media companies cannot get around the chief hurdle facing the cellphone: its tiny screen. Consumers are buying larger and larger television screens for their living rooms, and many may not like squinting at a 2.5-inch picture. ESPN, for example, is addressing that by offering video content with more close-ups and customizing graphics for the small screen.
 Still, some analysts are skeptical.
 ''The experience of content on your phone is worse than almost any other venue you could think of,'' says Charles Golvin, a senior analyst at Forrester Research. ''If you have a choice between a phone and any other outlet for content, you'll almost always choose the other outlet because it's a better experience. The phone is the device of last resort.''
 Mobile-content advocates counter that people may be reaching the point of last resort much more often than they did in the past -- especially as commutes grow longer and as people generally travel more. 
 The popularity of DVDs has shown that people will view films on smaller screens than those at movie theaters because it is more convenient to stay home. If they can be induced to settle for even smaller screens, cellphone viewing at home may rise. (And, apparently, no room is sacred: some media executives say the bathroom is a popular place for cellphone viewing.)
 One mobile content network, Go2, which runs mobile sites about golf, travel and other topics, found that 44 percent of its users visit Go2 on their phones while they are at home. And MTV Networks has noticed that its Nickelodeon video clips do well on cellphones, possibly because parents in their cars pass their phones to bored children in the backseat. Still, there is very little empirical data to track where people are when they use their cellphones.
 Because of the small screens on cellphones, some media companies view the phones as tools, not as channels. Hearst has created several cell-based services related to its magazine content, but the company does not view the cellphone itself as a minimagazine.
 One Hearst title, Good Housekeeping, created a cellphone database that allows shoppers to use their phones to check whether products in stores have the magazine's well-known seal of approval. Esquire, a men's magazine from Hearst, has created a cellphone site listing the best bars in America.
 Hearst's strategy is linked to what it sees as the limits of cellphone screens and the dangers of offering feature-length content on them.
 ''It's not really what the phone screen is designed for,'' says Sophia Stuart, mobile director at Hearst. ''It's designed to provide information, to give it to me quickly.''
 Despite these possible limitations, media concerns are taking the cellphone seriously. When Cyriac Roeding joined the CBS television network as its head of mobile content two years ago, the first thing he did was to conduct a survey among viewers to find out how many tuned in with their cellphones at hand. He found that about 64 percent of 18- to 24-year-olds watch television with their cellphone almost always nearby. 
 ''That gives you millions of people everyday who have their cellphones with them while they are watching our network,'' Mr. Roeding says. ''Basically you've got the ultimate glue between different mediums, and that's the cellphone.''
 He views the cellphone as a substitute for the television when viewers are not near a set. CBS News offers short clips of big stories throughout the day, and the actress Ashley Hartman stars in cellphone videos.
 But the phone can also complement programs watched at home, Mr. Roeding says. Text messaging and other technologies on the phone will allow viewers to interact with advertisers and television programs -- like the text-message voting that Fox has used to great effect on ''American Idol.''
 Underlying the interest in cellphones as the Next Big Media Platform is a generation gap: younger people use cellphones more than their baby-boomer parents do -- and for a lot more than chatting. More than three-quarters of 18- to 26-year-olds use some type of data services -- compared with 44 percent of the general population -- and their time spent messaging, downloading content, watching video and surfing around the mobile slipstream is also higher, according to Forrester. 
 ''For the younger generation, the mobile phone is their most relevant device,'' says Dan Novak, an executive at MediaFLO USA, a cellphone video network. ''They don't want just clips. They want long-form programming, they want shows that are simulcast, they basically want a TV-like experience.''
 In the end, the younger crowd is what gives hope to mobility zealots like Mr. Zehr at ESPN.
 ''I have a 5-year-old, and he doesn't know that there are phones you can't watch TV on,'' he says. ''People are more mobile than ever. They commute more, they travel more, they are out of the house. They are going to want mobile content.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: CBS's mobile content includes offerings like ''Late Show With David Letterman.'' (Photo by Steve Goldstein for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Cyriac Roeding, left, head of mobile content at CBS, and Jeff Sellinger, an executive, watch a monitor as an actress, Ashley Hartman, center, receives direction for a cellphone video that CBS is producing. (Photo by Steve Goldstein for The New York Times)
Craig Schroeder, left, an editor, with Trey Wingo, the host of ''ESPN ReSet,'' a cellphone show that recaps the network's TV morning shows. (Photo by Alan S. Orling for The New York Times)
 John Zehr, a multimedia executive at ESPN, standing, with Chris Statz, foreground, of wireless operations, and Craig Schroeder, an editor. (Photo by Rich Arden/ESPN)(pg. 4) Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg)(pg. 4) Chart: ''Can't Live Without It'' Cellphones rank higher than television in the 18-to-26 age group -- and media executives are hoping that it will have a large appetite for mobile video content. Which device do you most feel you could not live without? Graph tracks responses for computer, cellphone and television from the following: GENERATION Y Ages 18-26 GENERATION X Ages 27-40 YOUNGER BOOMERS Ages 41-50 OLDER BOOMERS Ages 51-61 SENIORS Ages 62+ (Source by Forrester Research)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); MOBILE MEDIA (89%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (76%); SMARTPHONES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (64%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (64%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (92%); APPLE INC (81%); HEARST CORP (66%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (81%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (66%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (64%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



345 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Can Pakistan Mix Well With Democracy?

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE

 BODY:
TENS of thousands of pro-Western moderates took to the streets of Pakistan recently and demanded an end to military rule. Benazir Bhutto, the country's exiled former prime minister, is offering to return and push for democracy, which she says would act as an antidote to extremism.
 Before the Iraq war, the United States might have welcomed such a vigorous call for democracy. But with the war faltering, Bush administration officials, and some Democratic presidential candidates as well, are reacting with caution, fearing that democracy could be a recipe for instability. While the country's military has a mixed record, they fear change, however well-intentioned, could endanger American security. George Perkovich, a senior analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, described the state of debate in Washington this way: ''People on the right and the left will say: 'You're just going to repeat the same mistake as Iraq. Don't you understand that these places can't change and that you're much better off having someone with a heavy hand, who can have some kind of order versus disorder?' '' 
 Pakistani moderates find the American attitude bewildering and dangerous. Just as they are beginning to believe democracy might return, they complain, the United States is abandoning them.
 ''This is a movement of the enlightened, urban upper middle class,'' said Rasul Baksh Rais, a Pakistani political analyst, in a telephone interview from Islamabad. ''Where in the Muslim world have you seen a movement going on for three months and not a single shot fired by the protesters? It is unique in many respects.''
 The stakes for the United States are high. Osama bin Laden and other top leaders of Al Qaeda are believed to be hiding in remote tribal areas along the border with Afghanistan and regaining some of their ability to launch international attacks.
 American officials say that while General Musharraf, the president, has aggressively hunted members of Al Qaeda in Pakistan's cities, he has taken poorly conceived, or half-hearted, steps to gain control of the tribal areas. Critics say Pakistan's secretive intelligence apparatus has largely turned a blind eye to Taliban forces in Pakistan who engage in attacks on American soldiers in Afghanistan. 
 Pakistani moderates say they can do better. They, like some Americans, argue that countering militants is not just a military task. It is also important to use political and economic programs, they contend, to prevent extremism's spread. A civilian government, the argument goes, can do that more effectively than a military one.
 Experts like Mr. Rais and Mr. Perkovich say the vast majority of the population and the military remains moderate. So, they argue, Pakistan has little chance of becoming so unstable that hard-line Islamists will gain power or seize control of one of the country's nuclear weapons -- the worst nightmare for Western officials. 
 General Musharraf has not reformed the country and is quickly losing popularity, according to Frederic Grare, a Pakistan expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. General Musharraf has voiced support for democratic reform, but the army dominates Pakistani society as never before. The economy has grown, but long-term changes in land and education policy have not been implemented. The judiciary and political parties have been weakened.
 ''The longer the military governs, the weaker they become,'' Christine Fair, a Pakistan expert with the United States Institute for Peace, said of the democratic institutions. ''Only by practicing democracy can Pakistan democratize.''
 The counterargument is that Pakistan's secretive intelligence service would be even less likely to cooperate with efforts to crack down on radicals than it had under a military leader. 
 Democracy has failed before, points out Teresita Schaffer of the Center for Strategic and International Studies. In fact, in an impoverished, ethnically divided nation of 149 million people, democracy has often been linked with corruption and has been overthrown by the military four times. 
 During the last attempt at Pakistani democracy in the 1990s, Ms. Bhutto and her civilian rival, Nawaz Sharif, engaged in winner-take-all tactics that undermined each other's governments. Behind the scenes, the military meddled, further destroying confidence. Then it took power and declared civilian rule a failure. 
 Stephen P. Cohen, a Pakistan expert at the Brookings Institution, said military and civilian leaders there needed to strike a grand bargain that gradually reduced the military's role in politics, while securing its role in national defense, as has taken place in Turkey and Latin America. 
 ''My greatest fear is that it is too late,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''Too late for civil society in Pakistan to withstand growing pressures from radical Islamists, and too late for the army to come up with a strategy that would lead to its successful withdrawal.''
 Over the last year, some members of Congress and experts inside and outside the government have called for a review of American policy toward Pakistan. They say American aid should be conditioned on improved performance in the war on terror and an increase in Pakistan's spending on development and education. 
 But Bush administration officials have continued to express public support for General Musharraf, and Democratic presidential candidates have advocated caution as well. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton said General Musharraf had ''become quite antidemocratic.'' But she added that ''we depend on him to try to control the tribal areas, out of which come the resurgent Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters.''
 Senator John Edwards was more blunt. ''Given the power of radical Islam in Pakistan,'' he said, ''there's absolutely no way to know what kind of government will take his place.''
 Mr. Perkovich, the Carnegie analyst, said sophisticated American diplomacy was needed to broker an agreement that gradually shifted power from the army to civilians. But, he added, ''neither party has thought about Pakistan and gotten it right.''
 ''It's a problem,'' he said, ''that is bipartisan in its avoidance of a solution.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Best Hope? -- As many Pakistanis push for democracy, many American officials argue that Gen. Pervez Musharraf, Pakistan's president, is crucial to stability. (Photo by B. K.Bangash/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TALIBAN (78%); POLITICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); SHOOTINGS (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%)

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (73%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (95%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



346 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Will Blackstone Have the Honor of Its Own Tax Law?

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
LAST week, Uncle Sam made his first foray into possibly raising taxes on the private equity and hedge fund industry with what Wall Street has dubbed ''the Blackstone bill.''
 After suggesting for months that a new tax regime might be imposed on the two booming sectors, Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who leads the Senate Finance Committee, and Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the ranking Republican member, introduced a bill on Thursday paving the way for an increase on any publicly traded funds.
In practice, however, the bill hardly casts a wide net. It appears to be seeking only one big fish: Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chief executive of the Blackstone Group. Mr. Schwarzman has spent the last week on a road show drumming up interest from investors for his firm's initial public offering of stock, which had been scheduled for as early as next week. 
 The offering is already laboring under the impact that escalating interest rates would have on Blackstone's finances and deal making. The addition of a possible tax increase could mean that the offering's valuation could be reduced -- possibly as much as 20 percent -- or delayed. Blackstone, citing the ''quiet period'' for stock offerings, declined to comment.
 An aide for the Senate Finance Committee, who requested anonymity, scoffed at the idea that the tax proposal was specifically aimed at Mr. Schwarzman. ''I wouldn't say that,'' the aide said, adding that Blackstone has been pummeled enough and its ''ears are already bleeding.'' Senator Baucus and Senator Grassley would not comment beyond the statement they made Thursday.
 The bill would increase the tax rate to 35 percent from 15 percent on publicly traded partnerships that derive most of their income from asset management and financial services, effectively treating such firms -- Blackstone is one of the most prominent -- as ordinary corporations.
 But the bill hardly touches the private equity and hedge fund industry as a whole because it goes after only publicly traded firms -- and virtually all private equity firms and hedge funds are private. Only about a handful of publicly traded firms would be affected by the bill. The biggest is the Fortress Investment Group. Even then, those firms would not have to pay the increased tax rate until 2012, and by then some new senator might come along and seek to repeal the measure. Despite the time lag, Fortress lost 7.7 percent of its stock market value last week.
 Of course, the bill would indirectly affect all the other private equity firms and hedge funds that have been chomping at the bit to go public. A virtual traffic jam had been forming on the initial-public-offering runway behind Blackstone. Now, those firms are likely to reconsider. 
 Mr. Schwarzman agrees; he said Thursday that he believes that the government is ''going to try and stop future offerings from happening.''
 If other private equity firms, like the Carlyle Group and Apollo Management, decide against going public -- or decide to do so instead in Europe, where they can avoid the tax increase -- the greater transparency that regulators, analysts and investors have been avidly seeking from funds will probably not happen. 
 From a purely economic perspective, the proposed law would be unlikely to raise more than a modicum of money for the Treasury, but then again, legislators are not pursuing this matter just to fill government coffers. Even so, there is a possibility that publicly traded fund companies would fork over far more in taxes to Uncle Sam than they now do as privately held firms.
 Mr. Schwarzman has courted controversy with his audacious displays of wealth -- his glowingly chronicled 60th birthday party has been cited -- and that may be one reason legislators have taken greater notice of how he and his private equity colleagues operate. But Blackstone also just sold a major stake in the firm to the Chinese government. That makes Mr. Schwarzman a tricky target for federal legislators because they may have to contend with White House officials, who lauded the transaction.
 Other unresolved issues surround the tax bill. Chief among them, perhaps, is that it does not address how to tax ''carried interest,'' the euphemism for the hefty performance fees that fund managers haul in. Private equity executives now pay only capital gains rates on those fees instead of ordinary income taxes like virtually every other corporate executive in the nation. 
 If private equity firms remain private -- and the two senators don't propose another bill that seeks to prevent private equity executives from counting carried interest at capital gains rates -- they will be back to where they started. The Blackstone bill will have been simply an exercise in political headline writing. 
 Whether Senator Baucus and Senator Grassley consider the bill to be a prelude to a larger effort that goes after carried interest remains unclear; the Senate aide said, ''I wouldn't call this a first step -- we continue to look at the issues.'' 
 So, at least for now, Uncle Sam is not showing his hand. DealBook also has a newsletter and a Web site, nytimes.com/dealbook, that is updated continuously when markets are open. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen Schwarzman, chief of the Blackstone Group. (Photo by Getty Images)
 Senators Max Baucus, right, and Charles Grassley have introduced a bill paving the way for a tax increase on publicly traded funds. (Photo by Lauren Victoria Burke/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); FORTRESS INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (58%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%); FIG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (51%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (76%); MAX BAUCUS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



347 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS: COLD SPELL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Up North, Looking For Direction

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
SCOURING the tundra for the source of the next big boom is the Alaskan way. 
 Skin it, mine it, fish for it, drill for it.
It has all paid off, at least for a while. It has also propped up the state's place in the national mythology -- the alluring frontier detached on the map but also a critical supplier of the world's wants.
 Now, as oil production continues its steady decline, and the temperature creeps higher, it is far from clear what the next big boom might be, or what Alaska might become without one. Nearing a half-century of statehood, the wildest and most mysterious of American places could use a reliable map to the future. Fog seems to be rolling in instead.
 Political scandal has erupted, leading to indictments for state lawmakers and even raising questions over the dealings of Senator Ted Stevens, ''Uncle Ted,'' the great provider for the Great Land. Global warming is puddling the permafrost and threatening coastal villages. The federal government, which spends more money on Alaska per capita than it does on any other state, may no longer be such a sugar daddy. The population, which once surged and plummeted with fortunes found and dashed, now relies more on trusty old biological reproduction for replenishment than some new rush of speculators. 
 ''It's sort of like this dance that keeps on changing, but it keeps us dancing,'' said Neal Fried, an economist with the state's Department of Labor. ''In some ways you just have to sit back and say, wow, this is pretty amazing.''
 Or you could confront it.
 ''Alaskans are kind of saying, What is the next boom?'' said Senator Lisa Murkowski. ''I think it is a hard question to answer and I think it's wise for us to talk kind of beyond the boom-and-bust path we've been on. Why does it have to be a boom and bust? When will we get ourselves on a more sustainable path?''
 Or you could drop all diplomacy.
 ''We're basically divorced from reality up here,'' said Andrew Halcro, a Republican who ran for governor last year as an independent. ''People say: 'Wow, we got a Gap or a Banana Republic, everything must be cool.' But what you don't look at is the big picture.''
 In Alaska, of course, the picture is really big. In a state with 663,000 square miles and barely one person for each of them, it is easy to see things from a different point of view. 
 ''We've been saying disaster is around the corner for years and we've been wrong many times,'' said Gregg Erickson, an economist in Juneau who writes a newsletter about the state budget.
 Asked what the future might hold once the oil finally does dry up, Mr. Erickson said: ''Who knows? But we can see some outlines.''
 Many ideas come straight out of the old extraction-economy playbook. The new Republican governor, Sarah Palin, a former suburban mayor, beauty pageant queen and exponent of something previously untranslatable in Alaska politics, ''transparent government,'' is pushing for a new pipeline that would pump trillions of cubic feet of natural gas from the North Slope to the lower 48 states, potentially delivering another Alaska boom, or at least a boomlet. 
 Still, even if that happens, and virtually everyone in Alaska hopes it does, most experts say the benefits will be far less than those of the Trans Alaska Pipeline, whose construction, completed 30 years ago, transformed the state. 
 Since the oil bust of the mid-1980s, the economy has been growing, slowly but steadily. A Target store, the first in Alaska, is set for construction outside downtown Anchorage, a stamp of retail arrival. But the backbone of the growth has been oil and federal money. 
 The underlying challenges are only expected to sharpen: The state has a small, aging population. It depends on oil for more than 80 percent of state revenue. While tourism, fishing and cargo shipping are growing, they are not about to supplant oil, and there is no other obvious source for major revenue that could. Not only is there no state income tax or many other fees, nearly every Alaskan gets a check each year from the state based on investments from oil revenues. Last year, the checks were for $1,107.
 That tension is not new, but there is more. Beginning in the late 1990s, as Mr. Stevens, a Republican, became chairman of the Senate's Appropriations Committee, federal spending in Alaska eventually doubled, going from $4.2 billion in 1995 to $8.4 billion in 2004. Now that Democrats have taken control of Congress, the senator is no longer chairman. 
 ''They see about three years' worth of federal projects in the pipeline, and then after that there's nothing,'' said Mr. Halcro, the former candidate for governor. ''I've heard from very credible sources that the people of Alaska are going to be surprised at how little federal money is coming in.''
 One of those sources was Senator Murkowski, also a Republican. She was appointed to office in 2002 by her father, Frank, who held the seat for 22 years before he left to run for governor. Ms. Murkowski said last week that with Democrats in control and so-called earmarks under greater scrutiny in both parties, ''the way we have typically done business or operated as a state is changing.'' Big building projects like, say, Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport, may be on the way out.
 ''When you think about how the monies have come to the state, so much of it has been because we needed to build a certain capacity that states in the lower 48 have had for generations,'' Ms. Murkowski said. ''We were in that catching-up period. It wasn't more than our fair share, it was our fair share. We were maturing as a state.''
 Ms. Murkowski, 50, is among a younger generation of politicians, along with Ms. Palin, 43, and Mayor Mark Begich of Anchorage, a Democrat, who cast themselves as more inclined to find common ground than make deals behind closed doors.
 Senator Murkowski uses words like ''sustainable'' when she talks about developing natural resources, and she expresses interest in alternative energy like ocean, wind, geothermal and solar. But like Senator Stevens and Don Young, the state's sole representative in the House and also a Republican, she supports drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, a proposal that would increase oil revenues but has little support in the Democratic Congress.
 Alaska has an emergency option should it ever need one, and it is like no other: the Permanent Fund, a $39 billion colossus built on oil revenues over the course of 31 years. The account earns the interest that provides residents with their annual dividend. 
 But the few politicians who publicly support tapping it for other purposes are usually met with an icy public response. Few are standing up for big new taxes, either. Calls for a ''long-range plan'' are drowned out in the search for a new resource boom. How about a controversial gold mine in Bristol Bay? The natural gas pipeline? Drilling in the refuge?
 ''People keep punting because they hope the next big development is going to bail us out,'' said Stanley E. Senner, executive director of Audubon Alaska, who spends much of his time working to protect wilderness areas from some of those proposals. ''That constant pressure is there. You have a lot of Alaska sort of collectively holding its breath.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by M. Scott Moon/Peninsula Clarion, via Associated Press)(pg. 14) Graph: ''Boom And Bust In Alaska'' Yearly population changes: Graph tracks yearly population changes in Alaska during the following periods: World War II troop buildup Korean War Vietnam War Pipeline construction Oil industry boom 1989-91 economic recovery Pipeline construction ends Oil bust Military base Closings (Source by Alaska Department of Labor)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); WORLD WAR II (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GOVERNORS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); POLITICS (69%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (69%); INDICTMENTS (54%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: TED STEVENS (73%); LISA MURKOWSKI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



348 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1872 words

HEADLINE: Reagan on Reagan

BYLINE: By KEVIN PHILLIPS. 
Kevin Phillips is the author, most recently, of ''American Theocracy: The Perils and Politics of Radical Religion, Oil and Borrowed Money.''

 BODY:
THE REAGAN DIARIES
 By Ronald Reagan.
 Edited by Douglas Brinkley.
 Illustrated. 767 pp. 
 HarperCollins Publishers. $35.
Not since the 19th century has a United States president kept a diary through his entire White House tenure, and this volume tells us more about Ronald Reagan than many of his biographies. Besides which, not a few interpretive bits of gold are sprinkled amid the grit and gravel of diplomatic niceties, Congressional consultations and after-dinner entertainments.
 Five large, leatherbound diary books -- the editor Douglas Brinkley likens them to a half set of an encyclopedia -- had to be boiled down by about two-thirds to yield this one volume. Except when Reagan was in the hospital, he produced an entry for each day, usually a page written in a clear hand with few portions crossed out. Brinkley, in his introduction, is broadly admiring of Reagan's clarity and persistence.
 For the passages omitted from ''The Reagan Diaries,'' Brinkley provides terse topical summaries. This does leave anyone tracking a line of thought with unfortunate gaps, but the editing is skilled enough that scholars and journalists will be able to follow important threads back to the original volumes. 
 On the surface, there is no overload of political or historical substance here. Ronald and Nancy Reagan (she is rarely far from his thoughts, even if not at hand) initiated the diaries not as journals of governing but as memory books. ''We just wanted a way to capture the moment and our feelings before we were whisked on to the next day,'' Nancy said. After they returned to California in 1989, they would often read and reminisce in their den after dinner.
 That said, political and historical implications abound. I voted for Ronald Reagan twice, and the diaries do not make me regret that I did, but his approach to his office had both strengths and weaknesses. One strength manifest in these diaries is that Reagan, especially in his first term, was a more active and alert chief executive than his detractors care to admit. That involvement leaps out of his descriptions time after time, whether he was balancing relations between Israel and the moderate Arab states or brokering fiscal policy within the various factions of the Republican Party or within Congress as a whole.
 By way of example, for the first 17 months, Reagan was having problems with Alexander Haig, his first secretary of state. Haig had been Richard Nixon's last chief of staff, and in the months before Nixon's midsummer 1974 resignation, the ego-driven Haig had come to think of himself as the de facto policy maker. That did not work with Reagan, and his entry for June 25, 1982, noted that he had decided to accept Haig's resignation after Haig had acknowledged disagreements between them. ''Actually, the only disagreement was over whether I made policy or the Sec. of State did.''
 The diaries also shed quite a bit of light on the former California governor's particular brand of Republican politics. He made periodic negative references to some of the Republican Party's moderates -- Senators Charles Mathias, Bob Packwood and Lowell Weicker, for example. However, he was equally critical (or more so) of New Right and supply-side stalwarts like Richard Viguerie; Howard Phillips; William Simon; Senators Jesse Helms, Gordon Humphrey and Bill Armstrong; and the weekly conservative magazine Human Events. To Reagan, the Sun Myung Moon-owned Washington Times is ''becoming as R. Wing as The Post is L. Wing.''
 Much as he favored tax cuts and spending reductions, he drew a line at supporting zealots in the House of Representatives like Jack Kemp and Newt Gingrich, explaining to himself why he thought their economic proposals were simplistic. Reagan thought Kemp was particularly uncollaborative and unhelpful. The conservative breed he favored included California money men who were his old friends; Wall Street mavericks like Treasury Secretary Donald Regan and William Casey, the director of central intelligence; moderate conservatives like James Baker III and Howard Baker (two of his choices for White House chief of staff); George Shultz and Henry Kissinger in foreign affairs; Margaret Thatcher and her colleagues in Britain; and the East Coast, somewhat Tory-type American conservatives centered around William F. Buckley's National Review. By 1984, he was frequently talking to -- and heeding -- former President Nixon.
 Perhaps the ultimate indication of where Reagan stood was his increasing support for Vice President George H. W. Bush as his political heir. I can't remember a single sentence in ''The Reagan Diaries'' that was critical of Bush. By late 1984, just after his landslide re-election, he noted that Howard Baker had inquired whether he would be neutral in the race for the Republican nomination in 1988. On Nov. 27, 1984, Reagan told himself what he probably had not told Baker: ''When the time comes I'm afraid that my heart will be with George B. if he makes the run.'' Nowhere does he discuss Bush's internal White House influence, but it was probably great, especially in matters relating to foreign policy and the Central Intelligence Agency.
 When it came to the ''liberal'' press, Reagan rarely has much good to say in these pages. During his first term, favorite epithets included ''irresponsible,'' ''demagogic'' and ''lynch mob.'' His anger appeared to slacken in 1983 and 1984, but returned in 1985 and in the years thereafter with complaints about the coverage of his visit to the German World War II cemetery in Bitburg, United States policy in Central America and the Iran-contra scandal. By his last year in the White House, his disgruntlement was often encapsulated in a single word: ''phony.''
 Family and religion were two subjects that received a great deal of Reagan's attention. Brinkley underscores the importance of family to Reagan when he writes in his introduction that ''rarely can one turn a page without realizing that Ronald Reagan's marriage to Nancy was the cornerstone of his life.'' The intensity of the marriage, however, seemed to complicate the two parents' relations with the children, especially Ron and Patti.
 Reagan's religion, in turn, comes across as important, but quirky. Entries for early 1981 include references to Armageddon being in the air. Reagan also sets down his strong feelings that the fetus is a living human being and that the Shroud of Turin is authentic. He was obviously bothered by his limited church attendance, especially in the wake of the 1981 assassination attempt, as we can glean from his comments about how ''elaborate security measures'' made his visits ''a hazard to others.'' On the quirky side, the 1988 flap over the Reagans' interest in astrology gave some church groups pause -- the Southern Baptist Convention briefly considered withdrawing the speaking invitation it had extended to him -- and it must be said that Reagan's easy dismissal of the astrology question in these diaries is too brief to be convincing.
 If the president's love for his wife suffuses the diaries, so does his affection for the movie business and his old Hollywood friends. In scores of entries, the highlight of a day seems to be the visit he enjoyed with Claudette Colbert, or the tribute to Fred Astaire he attended, or a song performed at the White House by Mary Martin or the movie -- sometimes one of his own -- he watched after dinner. And apparently he was neverhappier than when he was riding at Camp David, Quantico or his California ranch -- probably 30 to 40 horse-riding references occur over the years -- or chopping wood at the ranch. This was Reagan's world, and revisiting it as frequently as he could obviously cheered and relaxed him.
 But it's entries like these that make me think Brinkley's favorable interpretations of Reagan and the diaries go a bit too far. In many ways, the Reagan presidency was successful. However, if any central weakness leaps out of this book, it is Reagan's tendency to view the presidency and its challenges in terms of personal media performance and people-to-people salesmanship. The Great Communicator thought so much about the image of his office that many of the entries show him preening like a peacock over public approval and perceived milestones. Consider these four comments selected from about two dozen: ''The speech was very well received. ... It got the most applause of any U.S. presidential address to the U.N.'' ''Addressed the Japanese Diet. ... P.M. said no other head of state had ever received such applause.'' ''I am the 1st Am. Pres. to ever address the European Parliament.'' ''At 7:30 on our way to the annual Prayer Brkfst. ... Billy Graham called me a Pastor to the Nation.''
 Obviously, this attention to public relations often related to genuine principles and firm policy objectives -- anti-Communism, reduced government, balanced budgets, support for deployment of the MX missile system, commitment to the right-wing contras in Nicaragua, dislike for Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya and many more. Or to seemingly sincere stands that could turn into stubborn causes -- like refusing to cancel his visit to the Bitburg cemetery.
 Still, the diaries do seem to confirm that Reagan had an ingrained habit of substituting public relations for serious policy. For example, instead of fighting disease and ill health with a program to fill the huge gaps in national health insurance coverage, he chose to meet or visit children and adults suffering from dangerous illnesses and empathize with them. Likewise, he thought he could transcend his reputation as a president uninterested in civil rights by calling on a black family or meeting with black clergymen (''This may be a breakthrough''). After the Supreme Court justice Thurgood Marshall labeled him a racist, he wrote in his diary that ''My record & the record of this admin. on such matters is out ahead of any other admin. in our history.''
 From 1986 on, Reagan's presidency suffered from the Iran-contra scandals, during which he appeared out of the loop, and from widespread perceptions that he was getting too old, that his capacities were ebbing. Reporters claimed he now needed to be given a script for the meetings he attended. Perhaps hints of his later Alzheimer's were showing, and scholars may well get a better picture of his mental acuity from the five full volumes of diaries. However, my sense is that the entries for 1987 and 1988 do reveal fewer days of heavy policy engagement and a schedule edging toward that of a ceremonial chief executive. By the end of his second term he was, after all, in his late 70s.
 Partly because of his people sense and his media skills, Reagan may well be remembered as the most successful president of the 1968-2008 period. But readers of ''The Reagan Diaries'' may find themselves becoming eerily aware of something missing. Nowhere does this popular president speak of the challenges of the approaching millennium, of history and its turning points, of the squeeze on the same middle class that provided him with enormous support or the transformation of the American economy as manufacturing gave way to speculation and finance. These, apparently, were not his concerns. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by John Ritter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS HOLDING AG (91%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

TICKER: DOU (FRA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (91%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007



349 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Two Cheers on Global AIDS

 BODY:
Now that the Group of 8 industrialized nations has pledged to commit $60 billion to combat AIDS and other diseases around the world in coming years -- a substantial sum by any reckoning -- Congress and other national legislatures ought to look hard for additional funds to close a looming gap between the funds committed and the needs of desperate patients. 
 The advanced nations -- both the G-8 countries and other donor nations -- have greatly increased their funding for AIDS programs in recent years in belated recognition that the epidemic threatens to destroy not just its victims, but also the social and economic fabric of many countries in sub-Saharan Africa. We are pleased that President Bush has proposed spending some $30 billion to combat AIDS abroad over a five-year period, from 2009 to 2013, but in truth that represents only a modest increase from the spending trajectory we were already on. At its recent summit meeting, the Group of 8 pledged to commit $60 billion to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria ''over the coming years,'' including the American contribution.
Yet even these pledges will not be enough to keep up with the devastating epidemics. Tens of billions of dollars more will be needed to provide treatment, care and preventive services for AIDS alone over the next five years.
 Although the Group of 8 pledges are welcome, they actually represent a retreat from previous goals. In 2005, at its meeting in Gleneagles, Scotland, the group pledged to provide ''as close as possible to universal access to treatment'' for all people suffering from AIDS by 2010. That should mean at least 10 million people in treatment by then, judging from estimates by United Nations AIDS experts. Yet at the recent meeting, the G-8 said it was aiming to treat only some five million patients in Africa by an unspecified date. That sounds like consigning millions of untreated people to death and disability.
 To its credit, the United States has been by far the largest AIDS donor in recent years, providing almost half of the funding commitments made by donor governments. But when measured against the size of the national economy, the American donations rank only fifth. There is room to do more. 
 As Congress wrestles with the fiscal 2008 appropriations bills this year, it ought to provide the full $1.3 billion being sought by Congressional health advocates as the American contribution to a global fund to combat the three diseases -- not just $300 million as proposed by the administration or the $850 million approved by the House Appropriations Committee. Congress should also set the nation -- and by its example, the world -- on course toward universal access to AIDS treatment by 2010. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (95%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MALARIA (78%); AIDS POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); SCOTLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007



350 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: A Wary Veteran Patrols the Daunting Home Front

BYLINE: By Francis X. Clines

 BODY:
''I was kicking down doors, driving Humvees,'' is the terse way Rob Timmins summarizes a year in Iraq. His description of his new job -- roaming the American home front trying to get Americans to care about other returning soldiers -- is more complicated. ''The Support Our Troops magnets on people's cars will eventually come off, and 5, 10 years from now, who will remember the veterans?'' asks the 25-year-old Mr. Timmins, outspoken as the Staten Island bartender he used to be.
 As outreach director for a nascent veterans group, Mr. Timmins engages the casualty wards at veterans hospitals, addresses public hearings and lobbies Congress, all the while sensing the insufficient traction of his cause. ''We live in an MTV-''American Idol'' culture where you can change the channel and not have to be engaged in this war,'' he says. 
There's only fitful attention to the resettlement problems of more than one million men and women who have been cycling home all too anonymously from two war fronts, wounded and otherwise damaged and not making much noise yet. 
 Their troubles range from the mushrooming brain traumas from roadside explosions to outdated benefits pegged to the costs and cares of World War II. The veterans' hospital scandal that uncovered a legion of outpatients foundering in a sea of bureaucracy gave little comfort to Mr. Timmins's organization, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. Sure, the headlines prodded a bit of public attention, he says, but they only hinted at costly problems that will haunt the nation and its casualties long after the war and the Bush administration are finished.
 More than 26,000 returning fighters are dealing with war wounds, 45,000 with post-traumatic stress disorder. The government's backlog of benefit claims reaches to the hundreds of thousands, with the data transition from soldier to veteran status a computer disaster between the Pentagon and Veterans Administration. 
 Mr. Timmins tries to make the public grasp that troops are being returned to second and third combat tours with untreated mental disorders. At home, there's homelessness on the rise for veterans who also discover that the G.I. Bill can't cover the cost of public college. Their unemployment rate is three times the national average. The old veterans' movie, ''The Best Years of Our Lives,'' is ready for a grim remake. 
 And day after day Mr. Timmins has to grind his teeth at how swiftly, how vapidly the occasional news of troubled veterans is bumped aside by a deluge of bulletins about Paris Hilton or some other this-just-in frippery. ''It's staggering, sickening,'' he says. ''There are days I scream at the television -- lives are being taken, families left in heartbreak.''
 He half apologizes for being so properly obsessed. He muses that ''compassion fatigue'' is one of the risks of paying attention to veterans of a failed war now longer and far less glorious than World War II. A once pro-war public would sooner forget about it. ''The point is we got to galvanize this generation of veterans now, and not several years from now,'' he reminds himself. ''Other national themes and issues will quickly follow this war -- health care, whatever -- and the vets better have a voice in the public dialogue.''
 But new veterans typically want to get deeply lost again in civilian life, not organize and beg for their rights. The three-year-old nonprofit group employing Mr. Timmins is one of the stronger veteran groups, and it has signed up 3,200 actual veterans as opposed to the 70,000 donors and other supporters looking for ways to help.
 ''In this war, you don't really engage a single enemy, so everybody becomes the enemy,'' Mr. Timmins explains, speculating that a warier veteran is returning, branded with the dark battlefield anomie of Iraq. ''You have a generation of vets coming home from a fight where everybody was a threat. The mental health challenge is going to be tremendous.'' 
 As he works the home front, the Support Our Troops bumper stickers eat at Mr. Timmins. He concludes lip service is better than nothing, but fantasizes asking bumper-sticker patriots exactly how they support the troops. ''I figure they'd fumble, without an answer,'' he says. Then again, he hardly looks forward to the day the stickers fade entirely from sight. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (90%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (76%); HOSPITALS (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); WORLD WAR II (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); LOBBYING (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (68%); BRAIN INJURIES (66%); HOMELESSNESS (60%)

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007



351 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Airbus Hopes Its Planes, Not Its Setbacks, Will Stand Out

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK and LESLIE WAYNE

DATELINE: PARIS, June 17 

 BODY:
The A380 superjumbo, swooping high above Le Bourget airfield during its daily demonstration flights, may cast a long shadow over the Paris air show this year. Production delays for the much-publicized 555-seat A380, have been the catalyst for Airbus's outsize woes over the last year.
 But it is another aircraft, the twin-engine A350, that Airbus hopes will grab the headlines at the show, which opens on Monday. 
''This will be the year of the 350,'' John Leahy, chief operating officer of Airbus, predicted this month. He said that he expected Airbus to secure at least 200 orders for the A350 this year -- and as many as half of those could be signed by the end of this week.
 The pressure certainly is on. ''This has to be more than just an exercise in dignity preservation,'' said Richard L. Aboulafia, an aviation analyst at the Teal Group, based in Fairfax, Va. ''They need to start closing some deals. They do not have the luxury of time.''
 Since the titans of the global aerospace industry gathered last summer in England at the Farnborough International Airshow, Airbus has changed chief executives -- twice -- and has said the delays with the A380s would wipe out more than 4.8 billion euros ($6.4 billion) in earnings over the next four years. An extensive revamping of the company's European operations is under way, aimed at eliminating 10,000 jobs in France, Germany, Britain and Spain.
 Airbus views the A350 -- which it began marketing in 2004 as a competitor to Boeing's popular 787 Dreamliner -- as the linchpin of its recovery. Boeing and Airbus expect the number of twin-aisle jets in the 180- to 250-seat category in operation to double to about 4,000 planes in 2025.
 But like the A380, the A350 has had a checkered development history. Airline customers rejected at least two earlier designs for the plane, openly criticizing it as little more than a stretched version of the company's A330 model.
 By last spring, with barely 100 customers signed up, Airbus engineers were back at the drawing board. In July 2006, they unveiled the redesigned A350-XWB, with a wider fuselage, better fuel economy and more passenger comfort. 
 Yet by the time the parent company of Airbus, European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, gave Airbus the permission to market the new version of the plane in December, Boeing had secured nearly 450 orders for the competing 787, a number that has since risen to 584. That makes the 787 Dreamliner -- which enters commercial service next year, five years ahead of the A350's scheduled debut -- the most successful new aircraft in history.
 Demand for the plane is so strong that Boeing says production slots at its factories are booked through 2013.
 Airbus so far has just 13 signed contracts for the redesigned A350 from two airlines, while five more customers have committed to buying 148 planes.
 Mr. Leahy and other Airbus executives are eager to play down the importance of Boeing's huge competitive advantage, arguing that Boeing's order backlog means that, for new customers at least, the wait for an A350 is no longer than for a 787. In recent weeks, the A350 has gained some momentum. In late May, Qatar Airways announced plans to buy 80 of the jets -- an $18 billion contract the airline is expected to sign at this week's show.
 The order represents an increase of 20 planes over Qatar's original commitment for 60 of the earlier version of the A350. This month, Airbus said that Aer Lingus would buy six A350s, another triumph, since Aer Lingus had not previously indicated interest in the aircraft.
 Analysts said that many of the A350 orders to be announced this week could be conversions of contracts that were signed before Airbus redesigned the plane. Others may simply formalize commitments that were made public long ago, including one from Singapore Airlines for 20 planes, and 22 from the Russian state-run carrier, Aeroflot.
 Still, Airbus will happily promote every deal it can, analysts said. ''I think even conversions are respectable,'' said Scott Hamilton, an aviation analyst based in Issaquah, Wash. ''Every conversion they make is an endorsement of the program.'' 
 The Paris air show is traditionally a show of numbers, and the Boeing-Airbus matchup continues to be one of the great corporate rivalries.
 Boeing, rather than introducing the 787 here, as Airbus has with all its new models, will stage the inaugural flight at its manufacturing center in Everett, Wash., on July 8. The event will be broadcast worldwide live in nine languages and will be anchored by Tom Brokaw.
 But that hasn't stopped the United States jet maker from garnering some preshow publicity. On June 9, Boeing announced a $3.5 billion sale of 22 787s to Aeroflot -- a genuine coup considering the recent souring of political relations between the United States and Russia.
 On the military side, the Paris air show is considered the world's largest arms bazaar, with governments and military contractors seeking deals. The big force is the United States government, since Pentagon budgets dwarf all other national military budgets. 
 After the United States invaded Iraq, it showed its displeasure with France's opposition to the war by sending only low-level military representatives to the 2003 air show. Those ill-feelings are now in the past. United States Air Force Secretary Michael W. Wynne is scheduled to be the keynote speaker at a conference organized by the French aerospace association, Gifas, which will also feature executives from Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Northrop Grumman and other contractors.
 ''We're going to be looking to what are the overseas opportunities to sell F-15s and F/A-18s and what kind of partnerships we can do with other countries,'' said Dan Beck, a spokesman for the military business of Boeing.
 The Pentagon, in a statement, said that participation in the air show ''highlights the strength of the U.S. commitment to the security of Europe and demonstrates that U.S. industry is producing equipment that will be critical to the success of current and future military operations.''
 Some of the highest-profile military planes, however, will be notably absent. The Joint Strike Fighter program, a 10-nation, $300 billion effort to build the next-generation fighter jet is not ready to be introduced at the show. The F-22 stealth fighter jet, the most expensive plane in skies, requires too much support and backup from the Air Force to make an appearance practical. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 19, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the Paris Air Show misstated Boeing's manufacturing schedule for its 787. The plane will be rolled out at Boeing's plant in Everett, Wash., on July 8; that is not the date for the inaugural flight. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Paris air show, Airbus will face comparison with Boeing. (Photo by Antoine Antonio/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); AIRLINES (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SPACE INDUSTRY (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PARENT COMPANIES (69%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (65%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (85%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (84%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%); EAD (PAR) (84%); EAD (MCE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) VIRGINIA, USA (70%) FRANCE (90%); ENGLAND (75%); GERMANY (75%); SPAIN (74%); UNITED STATES (70%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007



352 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: The Supreme Court's Bonus Babies

BYLINE: By David Lat. 
David Lat is the editor in chief of Above the Law, an online legal tabloid.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AFTER the Supreme Court's term ends this month, the nine justices will go their separate ways for the summer. A few weeks later, their 36 law clerks -- the young legal geniuses who spend a year assisting the justices in selecting cases for review, preparing for oral argument and drafting opinions -- will leave the court's marble palace at 1 First Street for good.
 Most of these clerks will join elite private law firms. This is not surprising, since firms entice them with signing bonuses that are expected to reach $250,000 this year -- paid on top of starting salaries approaching $200,000. Thus some former clerks, in their first year practicing law, will earn twice as much as their former judicial bosses (the chief justice earns $212,000 a year; his colleagues earn $203,000 each). 
These gargantuan clerkship bonuses have their critics, including some of the justices themselves. They are attacked as the private sector's way of luring some of the profession's most promising new members away from more worthwhile enterprises. But this is exactly backward: these outsized bonuses, while questionable investments for the law firms, are actually healthy for the legal system as a whole.
 From a narrowly economic point of view -- focusing on the actual work the clerks will perform, and setting aside the law firms' quest for prestige and bragging rights -- it is difficult to understand why firms fight for the right to shower 26-year-olds with cash. Clerkships tend to attract, and justices tend to hire, academic or intellectual types. Once in private practice, these lawyers typically gravitate toward more academic fields like appellate litigation (the former practice area of Chief Justice John Roberts). It's a field characterized by relatively low billable hours and profit margins compared to, say, time-intensive trials or high-margin merger-and-acquisition work.
 By virtue of their clerkship experience, clerks do have specific expertise in Supreme Court litigation. But practice before the court is, even for the most elite firms, a tiny field. Moreover, former clerks are ethically barred from practicing before the court for two years after their clerkships (by which time they may no longer be at the firm).
 Perhaps the best justification for eye-popping clerkship bonuses is that Supreme Court clerkships correlate strongly with legal genius; the clerk jobs are so coveted that those who get them must be the best legal minds. The problem with this ''screening function'' justification, however, is that the law-clerk hiring process isn't entirely merit-driven. The justices consider qualities other than legal acumen when picking clerks (as they are perfectly entitled to do). The former Chief Justice William Rehnquist favored applicants who played tennis. Hugo Black, who was from Alabama, had a soft spot for clerks from Southern law schools. And all the justices interview prospective clerks to assess personality fit -- which makes sense, since they will be working closely with their clerks for an entire year.
 For every Supreme Court clerk, there is another similarly gifted lawyer who could do law firm work just as well, but who narrowly missed out on a high court clerkship. Such ''near-misses'' are like generic drugs, or store-brand paper towels: they perform the same function, at a fraction of the cost. For every $250,000 Supreme Court clerkship bonus, a firm could pay five clerkship bonuses of $50,000 -- the going rate -- to former appeals court clerks who just missed out on clerking for the Supreme Court (disclosure: I'm one of those former appeals court clerks who didn't get a golden ticket).
 The bigger point is that even if the astronomical Supreme Court clerkship bonuses may be dubious investments for law firms, they are good news for our legal system. Here's why: by promising clerks a financial windfall on the back end of their clerkships, firms encourage bright young lawyers -- many of whom carry loads of educational debt -- to render service to the court and country. The bonuses place clerks in a similar (or superior) position financially to their classmates who went directly into private practice instead of clerking for two years (the first with a lower-court judge, the second with a Supreme Court justice). The bonuses can be viewed as an after-the-fact supplement, paid for by the private sector, to comparatively modest clerkly wages (less than $65,000 a year).
 The financial freedom supplied by these bonuses can allow the clerks who decide against a corporate career to move on more quickly to what truly interests them -- academia, government practice or public-interest law. Law firms end up in effect subsidizing less wealthy precincts of the profession.
 In recent years, the practice of law at the nation's largest firms has become much more of a business and much less of a profession. Firms have been squeezing more billable hours out of their associates, abandoning less lucrative practice areas and showing the door to partners who don't bring in enough business -- measures that would have been unheard of in the profession's more genteel days.
 So this bizarre competition among prestige-hungry law firms to collect the most young legal rock stars actually represents a healthy check, however modest, on this profit-maximizing behavior. By harnessing irrational law firm egotism to serve the rest of the profession, enormous clerkship bonuses achieve an impressive, increasingly difficult feat: getting top law firms to contribute to something other than their own bottom line. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ETHICS (77%); LAW PRACTICE (77%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE HOURS (76%); MERGERS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); BONUS PAY (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007



353 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Abbas Swears In Emergency Palestinian Government

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER and TAGHREED EL-KHODARY; Isabel Kershner reported from Ramallah, and Taghreed El-Khodary from Gaza. Ian Fisher contributed reporting from Jerusalem, Nada Bakri from Beirut, Lebanon, and Warren Hoge from New York.

DATELINE: RAMALLAH, West Bank, June 17 

 BODY:
The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah, swore in an emergency government at his headquarters here on Sunday, reasserting his authority over the West Bank days after Fatah's rival, Hamas, routed his forces in Gaza and seized power there. 
 Adding to the turbulence, two Katyusha rockets fired from Lebanon landed in the Israeli northern border town of Kiryat Shmona on Sunday evening, an Israeli Army spokesman said. They caused some damage but no casualties, he said.
The rockets were the first fired over Israel's northern border since a cease-fire ended last summer's war against Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite militia. Hezbollah denied having any connection with the rocket attacks on Sunday.
 The Lebanese Army said in a statement that three rockets were fired and a fourth was found in an area about two miles north of the border, and that the rockets had been fired by ''unknown elements.'' 
 Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel, in New York on a visit that will take him to Washington for a meeting Tuesday with President Bush, said Israel had concluded that the rockets were launched by ''a small Palestinian section'' that he said was ''most likely'' tied to Al Qaeda.
 Speaking to the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations at the Regency Hotel, Mr. Olmert said Sunday that the finding ''doesn't make it any more acceptable.'' But he added that in an earlier meeting on Sunday he had told the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, that thanks to United Nations forces sent to southern Lebanon at the end of last summer's war with Hezbollah, northern Israel was ''the safest'' it had been in 40 years.
 In another development, the satellite television channel Al Jazeera broadcast a video it said was from the Army of Islam in which the group threatened to kill the BBC correspondent Alan Johnston. The group says it has been holding Mr. Johnston since he was seized in March.
 Abu Khattab, identified as a spokesman for the group, told Al Jazeera that there was no deal to release Mr. Johnston, and ''if the situation gets more complicated concerning us and our group, then we will ingratiate ourselves to God by slaying this journalist.''
 Under the circumstances, the swearing-in ceremony in Ramallah was a somber affair. Salam Fayyad, an internationally respected economist, will serve as prime minister as well as finance and foreign minister in the 12-member cabinet.
 Most of the ministers, like Mr. Fayyad, are political independents and technocrats, with the exception of the interior minister, Abd al-Razzaq al-Yihya, a veteran Fatah figure and retired general with a reputation for toughness, who will be responsible for security forces. He held the same post under Yasir Arafat. 
 Mr. Abbas issued decrees outlawing the armed militias of Hamas and suspending clauses in the Palestinian Basic Law, which effectively serves as a constitution, that call for parliamentary approval of the new government. Hamas has a firm majority in the 132-seat Palestinian parliament, though 40 of its legislators are currently in Israeli jails. 
 Hamas has called the emergency government illegitimate, insisting that the Hamas-dominated unity government, which Mr. Abbas dissolved, is in charge. A Hamas spokesman in Gaza, Sami Abu Zuhri, said the new government was a ''conspiracy against the Palestinian people'' that ''serves Israel and the United States.'' 
 Saeb Erekat, a close aide to Mr. Abbas, said after the swearing-in ceremony that ''in reality, Gaza is no longer under the control of the Palestinian Authority.'' He said it had been taken over by ''a group of gangsters'' and ''separatists.'' 
 But he pledged that the leadership loyal to Mr. Abbas would not abandon Gaza and that it would maintain contact with international agencies and Israel to ensure that food, fuel and other supplies continued to reach the 1.5 million Palestinians there. 
 ''If what happened in Gaza represents chaos and mutiny, the West Bank represents law and order,'' Mr. Erekat said. The West Bank, he said, will be ruled by ''one authority and one gun.'' 
 Another aide to Mr. Abbas, Nabil Abu Rudeina, said he believed that the United States would support the new government and that America and Israel would agree to lift the embargo imposed on the previous governments led by Hamas, which is defined as a terrorist organization by Israel and much of the West. 
 Dor Alon, a private Israeli energy company that supplies all of Gaza's gasoline, said it was stopping deliveries, Israel Radio said, though it would supply fuel for Gaza's electrical power station. 
 The Israeli infrastructure minister, Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, who oversees fuel supplies, told Army Radio: ''We should simply increase the isolation of Gaza. I want to stop everything until we understand what is going on there.''
 Other reports said Dor Alon did not deliver the gasoline on Sunday because its trucks found nobody to receive it on the Palestinian side. Gaza is believed to have about a two-week supply of gasoline left. 
 At the Erez crossing on the Gaza-Israel border, as many as 1,000 people, most of them loyal to Fatah, remained in limbo, prevented by the Israelis from fleeing Gaza and afraid to turn back. 
 Some have been in the Gaza-Israel corridor for three days, since Hamas overran the last Fatah positions. ''We are the boys of Fatah,'' said Muhammad Sharatha, 19, one of the young men there. ''Now Fatah is destroyed; we are afraid of execution.''
 Dozens of senior Fatah leaders have been allowed to flee to the West Bank through Israel, but foot soldiers like Mr. Sharatha are trapped. Hamas declared an amnesty after the fighting, and urged the men to go home, but many expressed mistrust.
 ''We cannot live in Gaza,'' said Abu Ibrahim, 37, a Fatah security officer, waiting at the border with his wife and young children. ''Even if I have to sleep here for a year, I will. In the end I want to get to Ramallah.'' 
 Israel's deputy defense minister, Ephraim Sneh, told Israel Radio that those whose lives were deemed in danger would be taken out through Israel. But he added, about the others, ''No one knows for sure who these people are. We can assume they are people who don't want to be in Gaza. Pretty soon there will be 1.5 million people who don't want to be in Gaza.''
 In the lobby of Ramallah's Grand Park Hotel, many Fatah refugees from Gaza, mostly middle-aged men, sat at coffee tables smoking nervously and awaiting news. A Fatah legislator from Gaza, Alaa Yaghi, said that he had arrived two days earlier and that he hoped his family would be able to join him soon. 
 Another of the refugees was Abu Ali Shaheen, a senior Fatah figure who survived an assassination attempt in November when gunmen fired at his car in Gaza City. 
 There was cautious optimism in Ramallah that the new government might improve the situation in the West Bank. ''A lot of money will come in because of Salam Fayyad's relations with the West,'' said Mustafa Abu Salah, a 24-year-old lawyer, speaking of the new prime minister sworn in by Mr. Abbas. ''Things will be very good in the West Bank and very bad in Gaza.''
 Naila Kassem, 30, was dressed in a black Islamic robe. ''We are one people, not Fatah or Hamas,'' she said. But she, too, said she hoped that the new emergency government would benefit the people.
 ''There are houses here with no food,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new Palestinian prime minister, Salam Fayyad, right, shook hands with President Mahmoud Abbas after being sworn in yesterday. (Photo by Abbas Momani/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HAMAS (90%); ARMIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AL FATAH (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); RELIGION (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); AL-QAEDA (65%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (84%); HEZBOLLAH (83%); AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (91%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007



354 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Coney I. Plan Is Scaled Back, But Critics Are Skeptical

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The developer who wants to remake Coney Island's amusement district has a new plan and says that you're going to love it.
 Joseph J. Sitt, who says his company has spent $120 million buying up land underneath and around the rides, said on Friday that he had ''rolled over'' in response to the criticism of his earlier plans for an entertainment and residential complex.
 So the looming 40-story tower planned for the Boardwalk at Stillwell Avenue is gone. So are the hundreds of rental apartments and luxury condominiums in the old plan. The new proposal is less dense, he said, but has more of ''the new, the edgy, and the outlandish'' rides and attractions that America's first resort was once known for.
 ''This is our way of showing the New York community that we're responsive to what they want,'' said Mr. Sitt, the founder and chief executive of Thor Equities, which buys and develops commercial, residential and retail properties nationwide. ''Our design, in all its greatness, is a way of showing the world what Coney Island can be.'' 
 Who could complain?
 Well.
 Robert Lieber, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, described Mr. Sitt's new plan as a ''wolf dressed up as a sheep.'' Mr. Lieber, along with neighborhood leaders and other city officials, had expressed fears that residents of new apartment buildings would not fit comfortably with the noisy, all-hours amusement district that would be preserved between West Eighth Street and the Aquarium and the minor league baseball stadium at West 16th Street. 
 The new plan keeps the concept of a new glass-enclosed water park, but instead of apartments calls for three hotels, including more than 400 time-share units, along with restaurants, shops, movie theaters and high-tech arcades. The latest renderings depict a pulsating entertainment complex with an Elephant Colossus statue and architecture that evokes the old Luna Park and Dreamland amusement parks.
 Mr. Lieber and others say that the time-share units look an awful lot like apartments and that the complex looks more like a mall than Coney Island.
 ''He came in last week and presented a plan that had essentially the same density, but dressed it up with hotels and time shares,'' Mr. Lieber said on Friday. ''The building heights still exceed the 271-foot Parachute Jump,'' a Coney Island landmark. ''And he's looking for a huge subsidy from the city. North of $100 million.''
 The city has been working with local residents and property owners for nearly three years on a master plan for what everyone agrees is a dowdy area. The idea, they say, is to preserve the democratic, open-air quality of Coney Island's culture and amusement district on the south side of Surf Avenue, while allowing for high-rise residential and retail development set apart from the rides, on the north side of Surf.
 The Economic Development Corporation, along with the City Planning Department and the Coney Island Development Corporation, have been devising a rezoning proposal for Coney Island that will go through a public review process later this year. 
 ''The community and the Coney Island Development Corporation have all indicated that residential and amusements don't go together,'' said Chuck Reichenthal, district manager of Community Board 13. 
 But Mr. Sitt says he believes the changes being proposed are too restrictive and would undercut his ability to redevelop the area.
 Everyone agrees that the shrunken hulk of the amusement district is worth preserving, at the edge of a beach that still draws tens of thousands of people on the summer weekends. The question is how to turn it into a year-round attraction.
 ''Coney Island has changed its faces many times,'' Mr. Reichenthal said. ''The last Luna Park was in the mid-1940s. Steeplechase came down in the '60s. But that doesn't mean that it hasn't remained a magnet. There's a lot to do when people come down here. It's still the place for people who don't have a huge amount of money in their pocket to come and have a good time.''
 Mr. Sitt, who is equal parts real estate entrepreneur and supersalesman, has been engaged in a game of chicken with the city over the future of Coney Island. Earlier this year, his team claimed that his project ''isn't a financially feasible investment'' without high-rise housing. Over the winter, he knocked down the batting cages and the go-kart park in a move that harked back to the bad old days of empty lots. 
 Now he has taken the housing, at least all the units labeled apartments, out of his proposal, and he is betting that his new $1.5 billion plan will win the overwhelming support of local residents, if not all the officials at City Hall. The hotels, which range from 25 to 32 stories, have been moved to midblock, away from the Boardwalk.
 Mr. Sitt has already spent a large sum buying up 10 acres behind the Nathan's Famous hot dog stand from 30 different families, including the descendants of George C. Tilyou, founder of Steeplechase Park, and the owners of Astroland, an amusement park that embraces the 270-foot Astro Tower. Astroland is scheduled to close in September. The Cyclone roller coaster, which is a city landmark, will remain open.
 Hear his pitch:
 The hotels, Mr. Sitt said, would offer black residents not only jobs, but careers. The Russian immigrants, who enjoy a ''quality of life and activity by the water,'' would flock to the hotels and nightclubs. Jewish and Italian-American residents would get the ''quality retail, bookstores and entertainment venues'' that they want. As for everyone else, ''what's better than having fabulous restaurants, catering halls, shows and concerts?''
 ''Tell me, what issue any one of these constituencies would have with our plan,'' he said. ''We're asking for motherhood, motherhood. Apple pie, Chevrolet and Coney Island.''
 Pause for breath.
 ''Maybe I sound like a salesman,'' Mr. Sitt said, ''but I'm passionate about this.''
 Jeff Persily, who has worked in the amusement district since 1960 and owns a penny arcade and other property on Bowery Street, agrees with the notion that the amusement area must be turned into a year-round attraction to survive. The city needs to change the zoning to allow for larger buildings, hotels, apartments, parking and retail, he said.
 ''They have a vision of open-air amusements,'' Mr. Persily said. ''We can't afford to spend millions on new rides and only be open three months of the year.''
 Would he sell out to Mr. Sitt? ''At the end of the day, combining all the properties and building amusements, hotels and residential would be a wonderful thing for New York,'' he said. ''We're talking about creating not hundreds of jobs but many thousands of jobs. I love Coney Island. I'd love to see it become what it once was when I was a kid.''
 But not everyone trusts Mr. Sitt to deliver. They are concerned that he would convert his time-share units to apartments or flip the property to another developer who would change the plans.
 Charles Denson, who grew up in Coney Island and now heads the Coney Island History Project, is fond of saying that Mr. Sitt could be a hero by saving the amusement district. But he said residential towers would overwhelm the amusements and ''a big shopping mall is not Coney Island.''
 The history project is running a show in the museum underneath the Cyclone roller coaster titled ''Land Grab.'' It depicts the development of Coney Island since the 1800s through aerial photographs.
 ''It's the last ungentrified place in New York,'' Mr. Denson said. ''It's still a poor man's paradise. There's something magical about it, the name, the reputation and the history.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The developer Joseph J. Sitt's $1.5 billion plan for Coney Island includes a pulsating amusement area and three hotels, with architecture that evokes the old Luna Park and Dreamland. (Photo by Thinkwell)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); RESORTS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); WATER PARKS (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%); CITIES (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); BASEBALL (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007



355 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Press Plan to Channel Billions in Oil Subsidies to Renewable Fuels

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16 

 BODY:
Senate Democrats are seeking a major reversal of energy tax policies that would take billions of dollars in tax breaks and other benefits from the oil industry to underwrite renewable fuels. 
 The tax increases would reverse incentives passed as recently as three years ago to increase domestic exploration and production of oil and gas. The change reflects a shift from the Republican focus on expanding oil production to the Democratic concern about reducing global warming.
On Tuesday, the Senate Finance Committee will take up a bill that would raise about $14 billion from oil companies over 10 years and would give about the same amount of money on new incentives for solar power, wind power, cellulosic ethanol and numerous other renewable energy sources. The bill is one of the signature issues this year for Democrats, along with immigration and the war in Iraq, and one in which they hope to clearly distinguish themselves from the Republicans. 
 But Senate Democrats are expected to go beyond the $14 billion in tax changes in the draft bill. Democratic officials said the committee is all but certain to adopt a proposal by Senator Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico that would raise $10 billion from companies that drill for oil and gas in federal waters but do not currently pay royalties to the government. 
 ''We are cutting back subsidies for the oil and gas industry and using that money to finance the development of new and cleaner sources of energy,'' said Mr. Bingaman, who plans to attach the entire tax package to the energy bill on the Senate floor next week.
 It is unclear how much President Bush or Republicans in Congress will fight the proposed tax shift. The ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa, has already endorsed the $14 billion package.
 But the plan could easily founder because of opposition to any one of many hotly disputed provisions in the broader energy bill. Just last week, a threatened filibuster by Republicans forced Democrats to postpone a floor vote on requiring electric utilities to produce 15 percent of their power from renewable fuels. The White House, meanwhile, has threatened to veto the bill if lawmakers do not drop a provision intended to prosecute what Democrats call ''unconscionably excessive'' gasoline prices.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York has proposed that oil companies be prohibited from using an accounting method called ''last in, first out'' for inventories that saves them as much as $5 billion in taxes a year. 
 Because Senate Democrats want to offset the cost of any new tax breaks with tax increases elsewhere, many lawmakers are pushing for even more tax raises from oil companies. 
 Oil executives are protesting loudly, saying that the proposed changes would take money away from exploring and drilling in the United States and increase the nation's dependence on imported foreign oil.
 ''They talk about our companies as if they're owned by space aliens,'' said John Felmy, chief economist at the American Petroleum Institute, a trade association. ''They talk about energy security, but these provisions could have the opposite effect in terms of reducing our production here and increasing our imports.''
 The oil industry has ample reason to worry. With consumers seething about gasoline prices increasing to more than $3 a gallon and oil profits reaching record highs, oil companies would be short of friends in Congress regardless of the party in power.
 Beyond the immediate jockeying, however, lies a bigger question: Is Congress putting taxpayers at risk by funneling billions of dollars in subsidies into alternative fuels that are still a long way from being profitable?
 Indeed, industry experts said the Senate bill greatly understated the true cost of incentives for renewable fuels. Most of the incentives are set to expire at the end of 2009 or 2010, but Democrats in both the House and Senate have called for an increase in the production of such fuels by 2022. As a practical matter, the vast majority of ''temporary'' tax breaks are routinely extended once they are passed for the first time. 
 In addition to higher taxes for oil companies, House and Senate Democrats are hitting at the oil industry in other ways. The Senate bill would give the federal government more power to prosecute companies that engage in ''price gouging'' on gasoline prices, which is broadly defined in the bill as charging ''unconscionably excessive'' prices that reflect ''unfair leverage.'' A similar measure is moving through the House. 
 Separately, the House Natural Resources Committee passed a bill last week that would, among other things, crack down on companies that cheat on royalties they pay for oil and gas pumped on publicly owned land.
 In effect, the various bills would transfer billions of dollars from oil companies to producers of renewable fuels.
 The Senate bill would offer $5.6 billion in tax credits over the next three years for companies that produce electricity from renewable fuels like wind and geothermal power. It would offer tax-free bonds for new power plants with renewable or clean energy. It would offer tax credits totaling about a dollar a gallon to producers of cellulosic ethanol, and even bigger tax credits for ''biodiesel'' fuel. It would extend and expand tax breaks for plug-in electric cars and other vehicles that use alternative energy sources, and it would provide tax breaks for gas stations that offer renewable fuels.
 In a nod to the politically powerful coal industry, the bill would also provide $1.5 billion in tax-free ''clean coal bonds'' for advanced coal-fired electricity plants and $332 million in tax credits for plants that make diesel fuel from coal.
 Democrats in the House are moving with similar legislation. The House passed a bill earlier this year that would raise about $14 billion over 10 years from oil companies, and the House Ways and Means Committee is expected to mark up a new tax bill that would offer rich incentives for alternative fuels and increased efficiency.
 The Democratic bill contrasts sharply with the energy bill that the Republican-led Congress passed in 2005. The Senate bill offers less than $1 billion in incentives for coal, no tax breaks for nuclear power and tax hikes for oil. But two years ago, Congress approved $11 billion in additional tax breaks, of which $7 billion went to oil, coal and nuclear power. 
 ''It is a dramatic change in policy, targeted at the big oil companies,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon. ''It will show the country the kind of things we can do by taking away subsidies for fossil fuels and putting the money into new sources of energy.''
 Privately, some Democrats say it is payback time: the oil industry's political contributions have overwhelmingly gone to Republican lawmakers and President Bush, and many Democrats say they have little sympathy for the industry now.
 It is unclear whether Republicans or Mr. Bush plan to protect the industry.
 In stinging criticism earlier this month, the White House Office of Management and Budget said the proposed price-gouging measure amounted to price regulation that would jeopardize investment in oil production and ultimately hurt consumers. 
 In 2005, Mr. Bush threatened to veto a one-year measure that blocked oil companies from using the ''last in, first out'' accounting method for inventories. The Bush administration, echoing charges by the oil industry, said the measure amounted to a one-year windfall profits tax that would frighten investors by raising the prospect of further tax raises whenever oil prices jumped sharply.
 Mr. Schumer's proposal is similar to the 2005 proposal, except that his measure would be permanent.
 The oil industry still has persuasive clout in Washington. Exxon, Shell and trade groups like the American Petroleum Institute have hired former Democratic lawmakers and Democratic lobbyists to help press their case. 
 They have carefully positioned themselves, picking their fights on selected issues that attract fairly little popular interest but affect potentially large amounts of money.
 The effort is mostly defensive -- fending off tax increases -- but also has offensive elements. Royal Dutch Shell and other big companies hope to be big players in coal-based liquid fuels. And the industry in general is still pushing for Congress to open up more areas on the outer continental shelf for deepwater drilling.
 But industry executives hold out little hope for emerging unscathed. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota discussed energy legislation on Friday at a news conference. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); TAX LAW (91%); BIOFUELS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); VETO (79%); POLITICS (79%); FILIBUSTER (79%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ETHANOL (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); WIND POWER PLANTS (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); ROYALTIES (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); ALCOHOLS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); IMMIGRATION (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

PERSON: JEFF BINGAMAN (79%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (59%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); AMY KLOBUCHAR (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007



356 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2007

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2996 words

HEADLINE: Midnight Train to Freedom

BYLINE: SARAH KAVANAGH and ANDREA PERELMAN


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students research the Underground Railroad and create a museum book to accompany a teacher-created exhibit on the topic. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students research the Underground Railroad and create a museum book to accompany a teacher-created exhibit on the topic.
Author(s):
Sarah Kavanagh, The New York Times Learning Network
Andrea Perelman, Bank Street College of Education in New York City
Suggested Time Allowance: one hour.
Objectives:
Students will:
1. Participate in a "gallery walk" of an exhibit on the Underground Railroad and answer questions about the exhibit.
2. Examine the risks associated with escaping slavery by reading and discussing the article "North Toward Home."
3. Research aspects of slavery and the Underground Railroad and plan for a museum book about the Underground Railroad exhibit.
4. Create a page for a class museum book along with a research proposal for finding out more information.
Resources and Materials:
- pens/pencils.
- paper.
- classroom board.
- resources for researching the Underground Railroad, including computers with Internet access.
- photos, maps, pictures, audio, video and texts relating to the Underground Railroad (at www.nationalgeographic.com/railroad/, and www.nytimes.com/2007/06/17/books/chapters/0617-1st-fros.html, as well as other sites).
- blank pages of the same size (one per student).
- copies of the article "North Toward Home," found at www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20070618monday.html (one per student).
Activities and Procedures:
1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW: Before class, transform the classroom into an "Experiencing the Underground Railroad" gallery, and when students arrive, invite them to take a "gallery walk." A gallery walk invites students to look closely at a range of material that highlights the words, images and sounds of a particular time and place and that is displayed gallery-style on the walls and other spaces of the classroom.
To create this gallery, gather a broad range of print and visual materials related to the Underground Railroad. Suggested resources include the following:
- The National Underground Railroad Freedom Center has online videos of its Underground Railroad exhibits at www.freedomcenter.org/index2.html (click on "speak, listen, and learn" and then on "core exhibits"; each exhibit has a QuickTime video on its home page).
- National Geographic has pictures, maps and text about the Underground Railroad at www.nationalgeographic.com/railroad/ .
- The University of California, Davis, has a site with narratives, songs, pictures, biographies, maps and more at education.ucdavis.edu/NEW/STC/lesson/socstud/railroad/contents.htm.
You may also wish to include excerpts from the first chapter of "I've Got a Home in Glory Land," which is discussed in the Times article, at www.nytimes.com/2007/06/17/books/chapters/0617-1st-fros.html.
Materials can also be found in textbooks and other print media, including photographs, quotations, poems, maps, song lyrics, sound recordings, charts, graphs, essays, editorials, articles, cartoons, primary source documents, music, film or video clips, or artifacts of any other kind. These should be displayed around the classroom in "stations" of thematic groupings: "Routes to Freedom," "Important People," "The Arts," "The Law," "Politics" and "Ways to Help" (see activity outlined in No. 3 for a more in-depth description of these thematic groupings).
Student "visitors" can read, view, listen to and observe what is there while responding to what they see. Next to each thematic grouping, place a big sheet of paper and have students write down any questions that occur to them as they look through the artifacts at each station.
After students have had a chance to view the entire gallery and have had a chance to write down their own questions, have them choose one document or image from the gallery and bring it with them back to their desk. Split the class into small groups and ask students to share with each other the significance of the document or image that they chose and why they chose it.
2. As a class, read and discuss the article "North Toward Home" (www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20070618monday.html), focusing on the following questions:
a. Who is Thornton Blackburn?
b. Who is Karolyn Smardz Frost?
c. Why were Mr. Blackburn and his wife unsafe after they crossed into Canada?
d. Why did Mr. Blackburn and his wife, Ruthie, live apart?
e. What role did Mr. Blackburn play in making Canada the "Glory Land" for escaped slaves?
f. Why does Ms. Frost need to rely on guesswork in her telling of the Blackburns' story?
g. How does the Blackburns' story illustrate how escaped slaves and their allies were forced to work together to avoid being sent back to their captors?
h. Does this story relate to what you already know about how people escaped slavery? How does it differ from the usual narrative about the Underground Railroad?
i. Where in the gallery walk that you just participated in would the information in this book fit?
3. Explain to students that as a class they are going to create a museum book to go along with the classroom exhibit. If you have access to a museum book, bring it to class to show to students as an example. Explain that museum books are created so that people can take home the information displayed in museum exhibits.
Split the class into six groups and assign each group one of the thematic groupings in the classroom exhibit, with the task of creating a corresponding section for the museum book. Have one student from each group take down the sheet of paper with student-generated questions from "their" thematic grouping so the group can read it over and add any key questions they desire. Next, have each group choose the five questions that they think are most important to answer to have a solid understanding of the history of the Underground Railroad.
Give groups the following additional questions to research before they begin researching and creating their museum book section. They should answer these questions by mining the exhibit and all available resources for information. Along with answering their assigned questions, encourage students to find their own artifacts to add to the exhibit.
ADDITIONAL GUIDING QUESTIONS
Group 1: Routes to Freedom
- Immediately before the Civil War, in which states was slavery legal? In which states was slavery illegal?
- Where were popular destinations for escaped slaves? (Encourage students to refer to the first chapter of "I've Got a Home in Glory Land," at www.nytimes.com/2007/06/17/books/chapters/0617-1st-fros.html.)
- Why were these sites popular? (Was slavery illegal? Did they have favorable extradition laws? Was there a positive attitude toward African-Americans in the area? etc.)
- What are some myths and misconceptions about how slaves found their way to freedom?
- Find a map that displays routes to freedom and stops along the Underground Railroad.
Group 2: Important People
- Who are the important people in the classroom exhibit? (These may include Harriet Tubman, Frederick Douglass, Thornton Blackburn, John Fairfield, Levi Coffin, Linda Brent, Frances Harper, Anna Weems, Sheridan Ford and others.)
- For each person, answer the following questions: When was he or she born? When did he or she die? Why is this person important to the history of the Underground Railroad?
- What groups of people are included in the classroom exhibit? (The teacher may wish to include the Quakers and abolitionists as well as others).
- For each of these groups of people answer the following questions: What were the beliefs of this group? How did the Underground Railroad benefit from their involvement? Why did these groups choose to become involved in the Underground Railroad?
Group 3: The Arts
- What types of arts are included in the exhibit?
- Why and how were the arts important to escaped slaves?
- What role did the need for secrecy play in the development of these pieces of music and art?
- Find song lyrics displayed in the exhibit. (The teacher can find examples at education.ucdavis.edu/NEW/STC/lesson/socstud/railroad/music.htm.)
- Do an explication (close reading) of these song lyrics to determine their meaning.
Group 4: Ways to Help
- How were free African-Americans and people of other races, including whites, involved in the Underground Railroad?
- What risks did these people face?
- How did their race affect how they could help others?
- Find examples of free people who helped slaves escape in the exhibit and collect all the information that you can about these people.
Group 5: Politics
- What was the Missouri Compromise?
- What politicians and states played a role in this compromise, and what did each want?
- What was the Compromise of 1850?
- What politicians and states played a role in this compromise and what did each want?
- What was the Emancipation Proclamation?
Group 6: The Law
- What was the Dred Scott Decision and when was it made?
- Who were the important people in this case and what were their backgrounds?
- What implications did this case have?
- What was the Fugitive Slave Act of 1793?
- When and why did the United States ban the slave trade?
- How were laws relating to slaves in Canada different from those in the United States? (Encourage students to refer to the first chapter of "I've Got a Home in Glory Land," at www.nytimes.com/2007/06/17/books/chapters/0617-1st-fros.html.)
After research is complete, groups should plan their section of the museum book; each student is responsible for one page in the section. Provide each student with a blank sheet of paper on which to create his or her museum book page. Each page should contain at least one visual component, the answer to at least one of the questions that was researched, and an explanation of one related artifact from the exhibit.
After the pages are assigned and planned, have the class reconvene and have each group present ideas to the rest of the class. Have each group take suggestions from classmates after the presentations.
4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: Individually, students create their museum book pages as well as proposals for further research in their area. Each proposal should include paragraphs on the following topics: a remaining "historical mystery" about the Underground Railroad and the slaves' road to freedom, a proposal as to how they might go about uncovering this information, and some obstacles they may encounter while trying to uncover this information. In the next class, the students should compile all of the pages and complete the museum book and present their proposals for further study.
Further Questions for Discussion:
- Would you have taken the risks that were associated with becoming a part of the Underground Railroad (either escaping slavery or assisting fugitives)? Why or why not? How do you imagine you might have gotten involved?
- What are some of the legacies of slavery in our society today?
- Why is it important to remember such moments in our history?
- Do you think the story of Thornton Blackburn should be included in American history textbooks? Why or why not?
Evaluation and Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on their participation in the gallery walk, their answers to the gallery walk questions, their participation in class and small group discussions, their active participation in research, and their creative completion of a page for the class museum book and short research proposal.
Vocabulary:
obscurity, haven, fugitive, abolished, bleak, prospect, capital, illiterate, significant, census, artifacts, absorbing, aftermath, crucial, ferried, bulk, domestic, succession, prominent, unsavory, solidarity, extradition, scanty, embellished.
Extension Activities:
1. Create a timeline of important legal, Congressional and executive decisions affecting slavery in the United States.
2. Read "I've Got a Home in Glory Land" and write a review.
3. Create a bulletin board or other exhibit for your school about black history, including slavery, emancipation and the Underground Railroad.
4. Look into the legacies of slavery in the United States and prepare a report for your classmates. Some places to start are the following "Issues in Depth" sections of The New York Times Learning Network: Black History Month (www.nytimes.com/learning/issues_in_depth/20030116.html), Little Rock Remembered (www.nytimes.com/learning/general/specials/littlerock/little-rock-home.html) and How Race Is Lived in America (www.nytimes.com/learning/general/specials/race/).
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Civics - In 1990, Congress asked the National Park Service to study how to best interpret and commemorate the Underground Railroad, emphasizing the approximate routes taken by slaves escaping to freedom before the Civil War. Design a proposal for a site, service, event or program and send your proposal to the National Park Service.
Economics - Look at the United States' most important exports and other major industries before the Civil War. How many of these relied on slave labor to produce? Create a chart that explains how much the United States relied on slavery to be productive and profitable.
Fine Arts - Read several slave narratives, like "Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl," "Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave" or others (a good guide is at www.wsu.edu/~campbelld/amlit/slave.htm) and write a fictional narrative from the point of view of an escaped slave. What are you afraid of? How did you escape? What do you hope for in the future?
- Write a treatment for a historical fiction film about Thornton Blackburn.
Geography - Draw a map that shows the free states and territories in the United States and Canada in 1840 and some of the routes that people took from slavery to freedom.
Global History - Choose a country besides the United States that has condoned slavery at some point in its history. Write a profile of slavery in this country. When did it begin? When, if ever, did it end, and how? Did racism or other form of prejudice play a part in justifying the practice of slavery?
Teaching with The Times - Mine The Times for articles about race. Use these articles to write a paper about how the legacy of slavery affects out society today.
To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
Other Information on the Web:
National Geographic has a Web site devoted to the Underground Railroad at www.nationalgeographic.com/railroad/.
The University of California, Davis, has compiled information relating to the Underground Railroad at education.ucdavis.edu/NEW/STC/lesson/socstud/railroad/contents.htm.
Academic Content Standards:
Grades Six to Eight.
United States History Standard 10: Understands how the industrial revolution, increasing immigration, the rapid expansion of slavery and the westward movement changed American lives and led to regional tensions. Benchmarks: Understands how slavery shaped social and economic life in the South after 1800 (e.g., methods of passive and active resistance to slavery; escaped slaves and the Underground Railroad).
United States History Standard 12: Understands the sources and character of cultural, religious and social reform movements in the antebellum period. Benchmarks: Understands the major characteristics of the abolition movement in the antebellum period (e.g., arguments of those opposed to and those who supported slavery, the Underground Railroad).
United States History Standard 33: Understands the causes and consequences of the agricultural and industrial revolutions from 1700 to 1850. Benchmarks: Understands the discourse surrounding the abolition of slavery (e.g., the different strategies to resist slavery employed by peoples in the Americas).
Language Arts Standard 1: Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Uses content, style and structure (e.g., formal or informal language, genre, organization) appropriate for specific audiences (e.g., public, private) and purposes (e.g., to entertain, to influence, to inform).
Language Arts Standard 4: Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of resource materials to gather information for research topics (e.g., magazines, newspapers, dictionaries, schedules, journals, phone directories, globes, atlases, almanacs, technological sources).
Grades Nine to 12.
United States History Standard 10: Understands how the industrial revolution, increasing immigration, the rapid expansion of slavery and the westward movement changed American lives and led to regional tensions. Benchmarks: Understands how slavery influenced economic and social elements of Southern society (e.g., the influence of slave revolts on the lives of slaves and freed slaves).
United States History Standard 12: Understands the sources and character of cultural, religious and social reform movements in the antebellum period. Benchmarks: Understands elements of slavery in both the North and South during the antebellum period (e.g., similarities and differences between African-American and white abolitionists, defense of chattel slavery by slaveholders, growing hostility toward free blacks in the North, how African-American leaders fought for rights).
United States History Standard 33: Understands the causes and consequences of the agricultural and industrial revolutions from 1700 to 1850. Benchmarks: Understands the importance of slave resistance in bringing about the abolition of the slave trade and emancipation of the slaves in the Americas.
Language Arts Standard 1: Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Uses strategies to adapt writing for different purposes (e.g., to explain, inform, analyze, entertain, reflect, persuade).
Language Arts Standard 4: Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of print and electronic sources to gather information for research topics (e.g., news sources like magazines, radio, television, newspapers; government publications; microfiche; telephone information services; databases; field studies; speeches; technical documents; periodicals; Internet).

        
North Toward Home

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); HISTORY (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); GEOGRAPHY (78%); WRITERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); FILM (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) American History; Belief Systems; Civics; Civil War and Reconstruction; Geography; Global History; Human Rights; Human Systems; Individual Rights; Language Arts; Physical Systems; Politics and Policy; Power and Authority; Race in America; Revolutions; Slavery

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011



357 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2007

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Morning Buzz: Coney Dreams, Broken Buses, Soup to Nuts

BYLINE: SEWELL CHAN


HIGHLIGHT: Is Coney Island -- where a storied past and dilapidated present have been the stubborn reality for as long as anyone can remember -- about to get its groove back? Judging from the papers today, perhaps. 

 BODY:
Is Coney Island -- where a storied past and dilapidated present have been the stubborn reality for as long as anyone can remember -- about to get its groove back? 
Judging from the papers today, perhaps. 
Charles V. Bagli reports that the developer seeking to revitalize Coney Island has backed away from plans for a 40-story tower and scores of apartments and condominiums; now he wants to build three hotels near the boardwalk, surrounded by a lively entertainment complex with a water park, restaurants, movie theaters and retail. 
But Robert C. Lieber, the head of the Economic Development Corporation, remains skeptical about the high density and large public subsidies proposed. 
(The New York Post calls the change "a stunning reversal." The Daily News writes, "You can forget about oceanfront views from high-rise balconies and takeout from Nathan's Famous.")
Trymaine Lee describes the avid fan base that has emerged around the Cyclones, the minor-league baseball team that plays at KeySpan Park on Coney Island.
And if you needed more evidence of a possible Coney Island revival, turn to Kinetic Carnival, a Coney Island blog that informs us about the availability of the Coney Island Lager, a brew officially licensed by Coney Island USA, a nonprofit arts group.
In other news: How do you distinguish gang colors from a fashion statement? 
Anemona Hartocollis of The Times explores the controversy over black and gold -- the colors of the Latin Kings. On June 10, the police arrested more than 200 at the Puerto Rican Day Parade, citing evidence that some were gang members seeking to disrupt the annual procession. 
It was not a good Sunday for motor vehicle safety in Brooklyn. A 58-year-old man and a 27-year-old man were killed in separate crashes; an 18-month-old boy was run over in a driveway; and a driver lost control of his livery cab, hitting three people on a sidewalk.
The Daily News reports that a possible compromise has been brokered in Albany over congestion pricing. Under a Senate Republican proposal meant to assuage skeptical Assembly Democrats, the traffic fees would last for three years under a pilot project and would require legislative approval to be renewed. The mayor would have less power to shape the details of the plan, which would fall under a Congestion Mitigation Review Board that would have representatives of the mayor, the governor, the Assembly and the Senate. 
The New York Sun reports that the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, will throw her support behind the mayor's environmental initiatives, including congestion pricing, at a news conference today at Hudson River Park.
The Daily News reports that safety and mechanical breakdowns on New York City school buses have more than doubled since 2002, even though an Education Department spokesman contends "there is not a dramatic increase."
More troubling school news: Over 200 after-school programs across the state are about to run out of government financing and may close unless $30 million can be raised by September. 
We know that animals can make good headlines, but a local A.S.P.C.A. officer may have taken matters to an extreme. The Daily News reports that the officer improperly raided a Staten Island home -- where he removed half of the dozen cats and dogs and charged the owners with animal cruelty -- because it would produce good footage for a reality-television series.
More evidence that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has not written off a possible presidential run, despite his protests to the contrary: The New York Post reports that the mayor has visited 20 American cities -- not counting Albany and Washington -- over the past 18 months and will soon have traveled more than any recent mayor. (Today, the mayor is in California.) 
And is Gov. Eliot Spitzer a party pooper? That seems to be the sentiment in Albany, where Nicholas Confessore of The Times reports that nightlife, long on the decline, is particularly anemic. The governor has declared it unseemly to hold fund-raisers in the capital and championed laws which bar lobbyists from picking up the tab for a table full of lawmakers. He and his staff prefer to spend their nights in the office.
Paul Mancino, owner of Lombardo's, an Italian place a few blocks from the executive mansion, said, "It used to be that a lobbyist would call and say, 'I've got some people from the Senate or Assembly, and there are 15 of them, and I want seven bottles of wine on the table, food - soup to nuts.' " 

        
Espada Now Favors Tolls on East River Bridges
        
Send In the Clowns, Coney Island-Style
        
The Mayor Lashes Out, but Says He Wants to Move On
        
Congestion Pricing Plan Dies in Albany
        
Deputy Mayor Hits Airwaves to Argue for Traffic Fees

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); CITIES (84%); MAYORS (84%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); BASEBALL (76%); WATER PARKS (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); FILM (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GANGS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (68%); ARRESTS (67%); PARADES & MARCHES (66%); POLITICS (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (50%) ASPCA; Coney Island; congestion pricing; Michael R. Bloomberg; Brooklyn; City Hall; Crime & Public Safety; Government & Politics; Housing & Economy; Morning Buzz

COMPANY: NATHAN'S FAMOUS INC (56%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (55%)

TICKER: NATH (NASDAQ) (56%); NGG (NYSE) (55%); NG (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (55%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012



358 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2007

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Hotter Summers, Fewer Jobs

BYLINE: SEWELL CHAN


HIGHLIGHT: Cutbacks in federal support have resulted in a 20 percent drop since 1999 in the number of summer jobs for New York City youths, according to a new report. 

 BODY:
The arrival of summer on Thursday means hundreds of thousands of New York teenagers who don't attend camp or summer programs will soon have a lot of free time on their hands.
The New York City Summer Youth Employment Program provides seven-week subsidized jobs to young people, ages 14 to 21, at nonprofit groups and government agencies.
According to "Summer Help," a report released today by the Center for an Urban Future, a Manhattan-based think tank, the program provided jobs to 41,650 youths last year, about a 20 percent decline from the 50,499 who had jobs in 1999. Each year, the city's Department of Youth and Community Development, which runs the program, has to turn away tens of thousands of applicants.
The new report [pdf] says the shortage of jobs is particularly troubling because New York City has one of the worst teenager-employment rates of any large city in the United States and a large number of "disconnected youths," young people who are neither working nor in school.
The report argues that the Bloomberg administration and the City Council have maintained local financing for the program in recent years but that "steep cutbacks in federal support and a higher state minimum wage" have contributed to the decline in summer jobs.
"Without summer jobs, a lot of teenagers wouldn't have anything to do for the summer," said Doniven Smith, 17, of Brownsville, Brooklyn, who worked last summer at the Henry Street Settlement through the program. 
Doniven, who is finishing the 11th grade at Richmond Hill High School in Queens, said in a phone interview this morning that the job helped him overcome his shyness. He plans to work at the Henry Street Settlement again this summer.
Update, 5:40 p.m.: 
Ryan Dodge, a spokesman for the Department of Youth and Community Development, told Patrick McGeehan of The Times that the number of summer-job applicants went way up this year, because the city began taking applications online. This year, there were 93,000 applicants for fewer than 42,000 positions. So the city will accept only about 45 percent and have to turn away more than 50,000, Mr. Dodge said.

        
In the Bronx, a Prom for the Patients
        
The Danger, Boredom and Perks of Summer Work
        
For Teenagers, Job Outlook Brightens Somewhat
        
Church Aids Expansion of Shelter for Gay Youths
        
At Gracie Mansion, Bloomberg Deplores Youth Violence

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CITIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (63%) summer jobs; teenagers; City Hall; Government & Politics; Housing & Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012



359 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2007

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: The Rising Cost of Meat on a Stick

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Souvlaki goes to $2.50 a stick to Astoria. What next? 

 BODY:

The cost of food and beverage rose by 3.9 percent in May from the same month a year earlier, about 1 percent higher than the inflation rate and the biggest jump in three years, according to the Labor Department.
This reality came home to our colleague Mike Nizza, who noticed this sign in Astoria, Queens, over the weekend, noting that the price of a souvlaki stick was rising to $2.50. (It had been $2, according to the vendor, for the past 17 years.)
Souvlaki can't be the only example of such rising food costs. Got any others on your travels throughout New York? Let us know.

        
Prices Fall With Cheaper Fuel and Electricity Costs
        
Food Prices Drive Up New York Inflation Rate
        
4 ... 3 ... 2 ... 1 ... Beaujolais Nouveau!
        
An Abundant Menu at Occupy Wall Street
        
Where the Sandwiches Are Named for Everyman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INFLATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FOOD PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (88%) Astoria; Food and Drink; inflation; Highlights; Housing & Economy; Queens

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012



360 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2007

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: When It's Good to Be Endangered

BYLINE: SEWELL CHAN


HIGHLIGHT: Several New York City sites have benefited from being listed on the National Trust for Historic Preservation's annual list of the 11 most endangered places in America. The 20th such list, released last week, put the Brooklyn industrial waterfront at No. 1. 

 BODY:
When the National Trust for Historic Preservation last week named the Brooklyn industrial waterfront the most endangered place in America, much hand-wringing ensued. The wharves, warehouses and factories of the Brooklyn coastline, a legacy of the borough's manufacturing past, "are being demolished by developers anxious to cash in on the area's newly hip status," the trust glumly warned.
But making the list may not be a bad thing. The National Trust, the country's leading preservation group, has issued lists of the most 11 endangered sites in America since 1988; this year's was the 20th. A look back at other New York City sites that have made the list suggests that over all, making the list can be a good thing, from the preservationists' perspective. Most of the endangered places listed in past years have seen substantial infusions of government money or, at least, public support.
Here are seven sites in New York City that have made past lists, along with a brief update on their fates: 

        
Ellis Island National Monument (1992) -- Although the Great Hall of this great immigration landmark was refurbished and reopened in 1990, other buildings on the south side of the island continued to decay. Money from the New York Landmarks Conservancy, Save America's Treasures and the National Park Service has allowed the buildings to be stabilized under the aegis of the Save Ellis Island Foundation.
        
The Cornices (and Buildings) of Harlem (1994) -- Preservationists fretted that "misguided rehabilitation efforts" had led to "the widespread removal of cornices," a trend that continued. But the soaring real estate market has led to more and more Harlem buildings being listed on the National Register of Historic Places and has fueled intense interest in the district's historic architecture.
        
Bronx River Parkway (1995) -- The parkway, built between 1906 and 1925, offers scenic views of the Hudson, but heavy traffic led to widespread pressure to widen the roadway. The Bronx River Parkway Conservancy was formed in 1997 to preserve the Westchester County portion of the highway.
        
Governors Island (1998) -- When the Coast Guard closed the nation's oldest continuously used military post in 1997, many feared for the island's future, but a joint state-city entity, the Governors Island Preservation and Education Corporation, now wants to overhaul the entire island for public use.
        
TWA Terminal at Kennedy International Airport (2003) -- Eero Saarinen's 1962 landmark is being restored with help from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and JetBlue Airways.
        
2 Columbus Circle (2004) -- Edward Durell Stone's controversial Modernist building is being reclad and remade as the future home of the Museum of Arts and Design. The Bloomberg administration declined to consider designating the building as a landmark, over the protests of preservationists.
        
World Trade Center Vesey Street Staircase (2006) -- The staircase, which provided an escape route on 9/11 and miraculously escaped destruction, is being preserved after an outcry from the public. 
Wendy Nicholas, the Northeast regional director for the National Trust, told me that she was pleased that the annual listing has had some impact. "The list of 11 most endangered places is really a way to call attention," she said. "There are all kinds of threats, whether it's preservation-unfriendly development plans, lack of funding, deferred maintenance, or poor public policy that will adversely affect historic places."
Ms. Nicholas said, however, that the fate of the Stone building showed the limits of public pressure. "Two Columbus Circle was where the public spotlight and the public pressure of the listing did not have an effect," she said. "The Bloomberg administration supported the museum and was motivated to have the museum take the building off its hands."
With unrelenting economic pressures facing it, and scores of commercial and residential developments under way, can the Brooklyn waterfront be preserved? Should it be?

        
The New Cardinal Takes On an Old Cathedral
        
Landmarks Panel Is Sued Over St. Vincent's Vote
        
Landmarks Panel Snubs Seaport Project
        
Columbia Names Director of Historic Preservation
        
A Neglected Bronx Landmark Gets a New Life

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (92%); HISTORY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TRENDS (73%); IMMIGRATION (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); AIRPORTS (63%); ARMED FORCES (60%); PORT AUTHORITIES (60%) Architecture; historic preservation; waterfront; Brooklyn; Buildings and Landmarks; Local History; Public Spaces

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (60%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (93%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (54%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (60%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012



361 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Zimbabwe Opens First Talks With Opposition

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, June 18 

 BODY:
Members of Zimbabwe's government and its political opposition met in Pretoria over the weekend for their first face-to-face talks since South Africa was asked in March to mediate between them. 
 Both sides have agreed not to reveal details of the talks, which are aimed at establishing rules for Zimbabwe's presidential election, scheduled for March 2008. But one person knowledgeable about the negotiations said the meeting had been a preliminary session, held to set the agenda for further talks.
 That person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because negotiations were still under way, said there had been some evidence of progress at the meeting.
 Efforts to make peace between the government and the opposition have been virtually stalled since Zimbabwe's president, Robert G. Mugabe, agreed to the talks under pressure from southern African political leaders at a regional meeting in March. 
 Leaders of the opposition, the Movement for Democratic Change, had gone to Pretoria to begin the talks several weeks ago, but government negotiators did not show up. Last week, the police confiscated the passport of one of the opposition leaders, Arthur Mutambara, the head of a breakaway faction of the opposition group.
 Critics of the 27-year rule of Mr. Mugabe have been under steady assault by the police and government loyalists since January, and hundreds of civic leaders, human rights advocates and members of the Movement for Democratic Change have been beaten, abducted or arrested in recent months.
 In recent days, however, Mr. Mugabe has seemed to soften his stance. Last week, a government-controlled daily newspaper, The Herald, reported that Mr. Mugabe had distributed tractors and plows to a clutch of political leaders, including opposition politicians, saying: ''There must be occasions when we must be together. After all, we eat together.''
 The gesture was almost unprecedented for Mr. Mugabe, who calls his political opponents tools of Britain and the United States and has openly threatened them with beatings.
 Opposition leaders dismissed the remarks as political theater. But Zimbabwe's rulers have come under growing pressure to change their governing style in the wake of a disastrous April harvest, which will mean widespread hunger in a few months, and amid uncontrolled inflation.
 Zimbabwe newspapers, citing leaked government documents, reported in the past week that the annual inflation rate leapt to 4,530 percent in May, up from 3,714 percent in April. Most economists say those figures do not reflect the true inflation rate, which they say is far higher.
 The government also appears to be in growing peril from internal dissent. The Herald reported in recent days that six men, including officials of the military and the police, had been charged with treason in connection with a plot to oust Mr. Mugabe and replace him with the government's housing minister, Emmerson Mnangagwa. The report could not be independently verified.
 Mr. Mnangagwa, who has denied any connection with such a plot, once hoped to succeed Mr. Mugabe, who is 83, but Mr. Mnangagwa has fallen out of favor among Mr. Mugabe's backers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INFLATION (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); POLITICS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); TREASON (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (78%) ZIMBABWE (97%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



362 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Ending a Climb, Shares Slip Amid Concern on Housing

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Most stocks fell yesterday for the first time in four days after confidence in the home building industry dropped to a 16-year low, renewing concern that the housing slump was not over.
 The deteriorating housing industry, combined with a six-week advance in bond yields, prompted concern that higher borrowing costs would restrain consumers and businesses.
 ''Stocks are still nervous about what higher interest rates mean to the economy and the market,'' said Richard S. Campagna at Provident Investment Counsel in Pasadena, Calif. ''The market's worried about every little move.'' 
 The losses were limited after energy shares rallied, as oil rose to a nine-month high. Transportation stocks declined on crude oil's advance. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.86 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,531.05. The Dow Jones industrial average decreased 26.50 points, or 0.2 percent, to 13,612.98. The Nasdaq composite index slipped 0.11 points, to 2,626.60. The Russell 2000 index, a benchmark for smaller companies, dropped 0.2 percent, to 846.28.
 The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index of sentiment declined to 28 this month from 30 in May, the Washington-based home builders' association said. Readings below 50 indicate most respondents in the survey view conditions as poor. 
 The Lennar Corporation, the largest United States builder by revenue, fell 57 cents to $41.19. The Centex Corporation dropped 66 cents to $43.13. Beazer Homes USA retreated 96 cents to $30.82.
 Wendy's International, the hamburger chain, slid $1.47 to $38.26. Wendy's, which put itself up for sale in April, reduced its profit forecast for the year, raising speculation the company might have trouble finding buyers.
 Crude oil for July delivery rose $1.09 to $69.09 a barrel in New York after Nigerian unions planned a strike this week, threatening supplies from Africa's biggest producer. Exxon Mobil gained 42 cents to $86.36. Chevron increased 22 cents to $83.39. A gauge of energy producers in the S.& P. 500 added 0.3 percent.
 An index of transportation companies in the S.& P. 500 dropped 1 percent. FedEx shares fell $1.45, to $109.92. C. H. Robinson Worldwide, the largest U.S. arranger of freight shipments, lost $1.43, to $53.33.
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which influences rates on mortgages and corporate loans, fell 0.03 percentage point, to 5.13 percent. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rose 7/32, to 95 4/32.
 About seven stocks declined for every five that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. Consolidated volume was 2.48 billion shares.
 Alcoa, the aluminum producer, gained 28 cents to $41.88. Alcoa may receive a $40 billion bid from BHP Billiton, according to The Times of London. BHP is in the early stages of considering an offer and has not made an approach to Alcoa, The Times said, without saying where it got the information.
 Samantha Evans, a BHP spokeswoman based in Melbourne, Australia, said the company does not comment on rumor or speculation.
 Yahoo, owner of the most-visited United States Web site, jumped 81 cents to $28.12. Terry S. Semel resigned as chief executive and will be the company's chairman, Yahoo said. The company's co-founder, Jerry Yang, was named chief executive. The shares jumped $1.20, to $29.32, in extended trading.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three-month and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BONDS (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); FAST FOOD (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (61%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (61%)

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); CENTEX CORP (66%); PULTEGROUP INC (66%); BEAZER HOMES USA INC (58%); 300 NORTH CAPITAL LLC (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); ALCOA INC (50%)

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (82%); PHM (NYSE) (66%); BZH (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (57%); AAI (ASX) (50%); AA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (66%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (66%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (58%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



363 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: A New Global Blueprint

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, the Miller Center of Public Affairs at the University of Virginia brought together some big thinkers to discuss the future of American foreign policy, and guess what? They couldn't agree.
 They couldn't agree on whether China would replace the U.S. as the world's leading power. They couldn't agree on whether Islamic extremism would be central or peripheral in the years ahead. They couldn't agree on the significance of America's unpopularity. 
 But there were two competing papers that illuminated most of the issues roiling to and fro. The first was by John Ikenberry of Princeton. He argued that the U.S. will not face one big threat in the coming decades. Instead, there will be a ''diffuse, shifting and uncertain'' array of security challenges: collapsing nation-states, global warming, nuclear proliferation, terrorism, pandemics, energy scarcity and so on. 
 Therefore, the U.S. can't pursue a grand strategy against a specific enemy. It has to embrace what Ikenberry calls a ''milieu-based approach.'' In essence, the U.S. would make itself the center of a series of new global institutions where nations could come together and solve common problems.
 During the 1940s, the U.S. excelled at this, Ikenberry notes. Dean Acheson and others initiated the Atlantic Charter, the Bretton Woods agreements, the Marshall Plan and the U.N. The idea was that capitalism could be organized internationally. Problems could be addressed in common. The U.S. could leverage its power more effectively if embedded in multilateral institutions with broad legitimacy. This order has been torn asunder because the Bush administration refused to operate within it. And so it's time to update. The new global architecture would have three features.
 First, there would be a global social services sector, providing health care, education, shelters, emergency services and other parts of any healthy community. Second, there would be renewed security alliances, in part to enmesh China before it becomes so powerful that it's uncontainable. Third, the U.N. would be reformed and a Concert of Democracies would be created, where the free world could respond as threats emerge.
 Robert Kagan of the Carnegie Endowment argues that this sort of global system would be workable if the great powers shared common political principles. But Russia, China and the U.S., among others, do not have common understandings or interests, so it will only lead to paralysis. 
 Instead, Kagan sees a world that will look as it's always looked -- a world of competing nations, vying for power. This world in his view will also have three main features.
 First, continued U.S. dominance. Even events of the past few years have not undermined American economic and military supremacy. For the foreseeable future, the world will have one big global power, and a number of regional ones.
 Second, increasing regional competition. Nationalism is back, Kagan argues, if it ever went away. And so in Asia, China competes with Japan and South Korea. In Central Europe, Russia competes with its neighbors. In the Middle East, Iran bids for dominance.
 Third, an overarching rivalry between democracy and autocracy. A few years ago, democracy seemed on the march, but now authoritarian governments are confident and thriving. Russia, China and other nations have an interest in seeing autocracy spread and in staving off democratic reform.
 In the future, Kagan concludes, the U.S. is going to have to stabilize regional conflicts and gradually push back against the autocratic tide. The U.S. will also remain the most ardent champion of liberty in the face of Islamist anti-modernism. American predominance is not a danger. It's the only thing standing between us and regression to a more dangerous world.
 For what it's worth, I'd say Ikenberry underestimates the power of nationalism. There's little evidence that different nations with their contradictory moral cultures can really cooperate, except in utter crisis. But I'd also say Kagan underplays postnational threats. More than in the 19th century, security threats come in the form of global guerrillas, loose nukes and disintegrating nations.
 Instead, we're trapped in a hybrid world, in which many problems are postnational but the social structures are unavoidably national. The interesting bright spot is that both Ikenberry and Kagan believe in a Concert of Democracies, an emerging body where countries that do share values can rebut autocracy and consolidate their common success.
 It's a start. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); TERRORISM (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (64%); RELIGION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (84%); MARSHALL PLAN (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



364 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Brothers to the Bitter End

BYLINE: By FOUAD AJAMI. 
Fouad Ajami, a professor at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, is the author of ''The Foreigner's Gift: The Americans, the Arabs and the Iraqis in Iraq.''

 BODY:
SO the masked men of Fatah have the run of the West Bank while the masked men of Hamas have their dominion in Gaza. Some see this as a tolerable situation, maybe even an improvement, envisioning a secularist Fatah-run state living peacefully alongside Israel and a small, radical Gaza hemmed in by Israeli troops. It's always tempting to look for salvation in disaster, but in this case it's sheer fantasy. 
 The Palestinian ruin was a long time in coming. No other national movement has had the indulgence granted the Palestinians over the last half-century, and the results can be seen in the bravado and the senseless violence, in the inability of a people to come to terms with their condition and their needs. 
 The life of a Palestinian is one of squalor and misery, yet his leaders play the international game as though they were powers. An accommodation with Israel is imperative -- if only out of economic self-interest and political necessity -- but the Palestinians, in a democratic experiment some 18 months ago, tipped power to a Hamas movement whose very charter is pledged to the destruction of the Jewish state and the imposition of Islamist rule. 
 The political maxim that people get the leaders they deserve must be reckoned too cruel to apply to the Palestinians. Before Hamas, for four decades, the vainglorious Yasir Arafat refused to tell his people the basic truths of their political life. Amid the debacles, he remained eerily joyous; he circled the globe, offering his people the false sense that they could be spared the consequences of terrible decisions. 
 In a rare alignment of the universe, there came Mr. Arafat's way in the late 1990s an American president, Bill Clinton, eager to redeem Palestinian claims and an Israeli soldier-statesman, Ehud Barak, who would offer the Palestinians all that Israeli political traffic could bear and then some. 
 But it was too much to ask of Mr. Arafat to return to his people with a decent and generous compromise, to bid farewell to the legend that the Palestinians could have it all ''from the river to the sea.'' It was safer for him to stay with the political myths of his people than to settle down for the more difficult work of statehood and political rescue.
 For their part, the Arab states have only compounded the Palestinian misery. The Arab cavalry was always on the way, the Arab treasure was always a day away, and there was thus no need for the Palestinians to pay tribute to necessity. In recent years, the choice was starkly posed: it was either statehood or a starring role on Al Jazeera, and the young ''boys of the stones'' and their leaders opted for the latter. 
 After Mr. Arafat's death, the mantle passed to a fairly decent man, Mahmoud Abbas, a leader for a post-heroic era. He is free of Mr. Arafat's megalomania, and he seemed keen to cap the volcano; he promised, as he put it, ''one law, one authority, one gun'' in the Palestinian street. But he has never been a master of his world; by the time he had been given his political stewardship the culture of the Palestinian world had succumbed to a terrifying cult of violence. 
 It has long been a cherished legend of the Palestinians, and a proud claim, that they would not kill their own, that there would be no fratricide in their world. The cruelty we now see -- in both Gaza and the West Bank -- bears witness that the Palestinians have run through the consolations that had been there for them in a history of adversity.
 It isn't a pretty choice, that between Hamas and Fatah. Indeed, it was the reign of plunder and arrogance that Fatah imposed during its years of primacy that gave Hamas its power and room for maneuver. We must not overdo the distinction between the ''secularism'' of Fatah and the Islamism of Hamas. In the cruel streets and refugee camps of the Palestinians, this is really a distinction without a difference. 
 It is idle to think that Gaza could be written off as a Hamas dominion while Fatah held its own in the towns of the West Bank. The abdication and the anarchy have damaged both Palestinian realms. Nablus in the West Bank is no more amenable to reason than is Gaza; the writ of the pitiless preachers and gunmen is the norm in both places. 
 There is no way that a normal world could be had in the West Bank while Gaza goes under. There is no magic wand with which this Palestinian world could be healed and taught the virtues of realism and sobriety. No international peacekeeping force can bring order to the deadly streets and alleyways of Gaza. A population armed to the teeth and long in the throes of disorder can't be pacified by outsiders.
 For decades, Arab society granted the Palestinians everything and nothing at the same time. The Arab states built worlds of their own, had their own priorities, dreaded and loathed the Palestinians as outsiders and agitators, but left them to the illusion that Palestine was an all-consuming Arab concern. 
 Now the Palestinians should know better. The center of Arab politics has shifted from the Mediterranean to the Persian Gulf, a great political windfall has come to the lands of the Gulf and the Arabian Peninsula, vast new wealth due to the recent rises in oil prices, while misery overwhelms the Palestinians. No Arabs wait for Palestine anymore; they have left the Palestinians to the ruin of their own history. 
 The rise of Hamas in Gaza should concentrate the minds of the custodians of power in the Arab world. Palestine, their old alibi, the cause with which they diverted the attention of their populations from troubles at home, has become a nightmare in its own right. An Arab debt is owed the Palestinians -- the gift of truth and candor as well as material help.
 Arab poets used to write reverential verse in praise of the boys of the stones and the suicide bombers. Now the poetry has subsided, replaced by a silent recognition of the malady that afflicts the Palestinians. Except among the most bigoted and willful of Arabs, there is growing acknowledgment of the depth of the Palestinian crisis. And aside from a handful of the most romantic of Israelis, there is a recognition in that society, as well, of the malignancy of the national movement a stone's throw away. 
 The mainstream in Israel had made its way to a broad acceptance of Palestinian statehood. In the 1990s, Yitzhak Rabin, the soldier who had led its army into acquisition of the West Bank and Gaza in the Six-Day War of 1967, told his people that it was time to partition the land and to accept Palestinian sovereignty. It was an unsentimental peace, to ''get Gaza out of Tel Aviv,'' as Mr. Rabin put it, but it was peace nonetheless.
 In varying degrees, all of Mr. Rabin's successors accepted this legacy. There was even a current in Israel possessed of a deep curiosity about the Palestinians, a romance of sorts about their ways and folk culture and their connection to the sacred land. All this is stilled. Palestinian society has now gone where no ''peace processors'' or romantic poets dare tread.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Anthony Russo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (91%); AL FATAH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); EHUD BARAK (57%); BILL CLINTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



365 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Memo Pad

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
GROWING AIR FLEET As the global economy grows and diversifies, the number of commercial airliners in service is increasing sharply. In its annual forecast, Boeing said that 28,600 new commercial airplanes would be delivered in the next 20 years, when a total of 36,400 airliners would be flying the global skies. ''Over the next 20 years, the center of gravity of the world airline fleet will move substantially toward the Asia-Pacific region,'' Boeing said in a report issued before the Paris air show this week. More than a third of the aircraft will be delivered to Asia-Pacific airlines, compared with about a quarter for North America. Within 20 years, the domestic market in China alone will increase to more than half the size of the domestic United States market, from its current one-fifth of the United States market, Boeing said. The company has been outpacing its rival Airbus in selling wide-body and other long-haul jets, including the 787, which is scheduled for initial deliveries next year. 
 RITZ-CARLTON OPENING IN MOSCOW Quick, someone check to see if Lenin is spinning in his tomb in Red Square, because a luxury Ritz-Carlton hotel with rooms starting at $1,000 a night is opening July 1 around the corner on historic Tverskaya Street. Guests staying in July and August can obtain lower promotional rates, Ritz-Carlton said. The 334-room hotel, Ritz-Carlton's first property in Russia, cost $350 million. ''Having such an impressive presence in Moscow is part of our ongoing strategy to develop world-class hotels in cities where the economy is growing and the demand for luxury lodging is high,'' said Simon F. Cooper, president of Ritz-Carlton. 
 CHICAGO-TO-LONDON BUSINESS CLASS Silverjet, the start-up discount all-business-class carrier that now flies between Newark and Luton Airport in London, said that it plans to begin service between Chicago and London in November. Silverjet, one of a handful of new all-business-class carriers that have started flying the lucrative trans-Atlantic market, uses 767 aircraft outfitted with 100 business-class seats. It has two 767s and plans to acquire more this year as it expands. Besides Chicago, Los Angeles and Miami are possible new departure cities, according to Silverjet's co-founder, Lawrence Hunt.
 QATAR ADDS NEWARK As travel between the United States and the Middle East surges, Qatar Airways says that it is starting four-times-a-week service between Doha and Newark Liberty International Airport on June 26, with a connection in Geneva. The rapidly growing airline said that its fleet would double to 110 aircraft by 2015. It is buying 80 Airbus A350s and 22 Boeing 777s, and has ordered four A380s, the so-called superjumbo airliner. The airline said that it expected delivery of the A350s and 777s starting late this year, and the A380s starting in 2009 to coincide with the opening of the Doha International Airport.
 CELLPHONE LOT AT J.F.K. Kennedy International Airport opened a lot where drivers can await cellphone calls from arriving passengers who are ready to be picked up. The 70-space lot, which is free, is near the airport entrance just off the Van Wyck Expressway, about five minutes from all terminals. At most airports, drivers have to circle around frequently or find an off-airport site to park to await the call from an arriving passenger because of strict security regulations about waiting in vehicles outside of terminals.
 MORE VERY LIGHT JETS As new so-called very light jets begin entering service, regions outside the United States are taking notice. Adam Aircraft said that it has an order for 50 of its Adam Aircraft A700s from a Chinese company, Hainan Zhong Hang Tai General Aviation Airlines. The Chinese company's chairman, Jason Fan, cited the ''fast-growing general aviation market in China'' for the orders, which, he said, were made with ''fractional share program and air-taxi operation in mind.'' Adam, whose A700s cost about $2.2 million apiece, is one of about a dozen aircraft manufacturers making very light jets. Adam has about 400 orders for the planes, which can carry seven people. 
 NEW TRAVEL NETWORKING SITE Looking for traveler community networking and reviews? A new site, Iloho.com, focused on user-generated news and reviews, started yesterday in a partnership with flyertalk.com and the WebFlyer Network, founded by the frequent flier expert Randy Petersen. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); AIR SERVICE (75%); GLOBALIZATION (73%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (91%); SILVERJET PLC (83%); AIRBUS SAS (58%); QATAR AIRWAYS (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (91%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (86%) NEW JERSEY, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (93%); QATAR (92%); ASIA (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



366 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 New American OffensiveOn Sunni Insurgents in Iraq
 The American military began a major attack against Sunni insurgent positions in Baquba, the capital of Iraq's Diyala Province, as part of a larger operation aimed at blunting car and suicide bombings that have thwarted political reconciliation. A1
U.S. Ends Embargo to Aid Abbas 
 The United States ended a 15-month economic and political embargo of the Palestinian Authority in a bid to bolster President Mahmoud Abbas and the new Fatah-led emergency government he has established in the West Bank. A1 
 A Palestinian man was killed at the volatile and closed border between Israel and Gaza after Palestinian gunmen opened fire on Israeli soldiers near the area where several hundred people trying to flee Gaza were camped out. A6
 Arms Flow From Egypt to Gaza
 A lack of economic development fuels weapons smuggling to Gaza through Rafah, Egypt, and the smuggling helped Hamas seize control. A1 
 U.S. Raid Kills 7 Afghan Children
 Seven children were killed during an airstrike by the U.S.-led coalition against a religious compound thought to be a sanctuary for Al Qaeda in remote eastern Afghanistan, the coalition said. A6 
 Parties Meet In Zimbabwe
 Members of Zimbabwe's government and its political opposition met over the weekend for their first talkssince South Africa was asked to mediate between them. A10 
 NATIONAL A12-19
 Debate on Right to VoteFor Mentally Ill Patients
 Election officials are taking steps that could ban people with serious psychiatric impairments from voting, and Rhode Island is among a growing number of states grappling with the question of who is too mentally impaired to vote. A1 
 Water Supply Low in Florida
 Many regions in Florida have all but depleted their groundwater supply, yet they have barely begun planning new water sources or enforcing conservation measures. The South Florida Water Management District is only now considering permanent, year-round watering restrictions. A18 
 Car Passengers Win Ruling
 The Supreme Court extended to automobile passengers the same right that drivers have: the right to challenge the validity of a decision by the police to stop a car. A12 
 Duke Settles With Athletes
 Duke University announced an agreement to head off any possible legal claims against the university by three former lacrosse players who had been falsely accused of sexual assault by a woman hired to strip at a team party. The terms were undisclosed under a confidentiality agreement. A15 
 Space Station Passes Test
 Russian computers on the International Space Station passed a crucial test and are back in operation following a weeklong glitch that might have led to the station's evacuation if it had not been fixed. A15 
 NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 New Screening Tests Likely In Wake of Police Shootings
 The New York Police Department is moving to require officers to take breath analysis tests whenever anyone is killed or wounded by police action, and to psychologically screen candidates for undercover work, accepting the recommendations of a panel formed after an unarmed bridegroom was fatally shot in a volley of 50 police bullets. A1 
 Earn an A, Earn a Dollar
 New York City students could earn as much as $500 a year for doing well on standardized tests and showing up for class in a new program to begin this fall, city officials said. The Harvard economist who created the program is joining the inner circle of Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein.B1 
 BUSINESS DAY C1-10 
 China Leads in Toy Recalls
 China manufactured every one of the 24 kinds of toys recalled for safety reasons in the United States so far this year, including the popular Thomas & Friends wooden train sets, a record that is causing alarm among consumer advocates, parents and regulators. A1 
 The toymaker RC2 has gone largely unnoticed as it has grown steadily, thanks largely to a strategy of sewing up licensing deals with big-name brands like Sesame Street, Winnie the Pooh, Disney, Nickelodeon and Thomas & Friends. C1
 Business Digest C2 
 EDITORIAL A20-21
 Editorials: Crunch time on energy; symptoms and ovarian cancer; endangered after-school programs; and Verlyn Klinkenborg on missing birds.
 Columns: David Brooks and Bob Herbert.
 Crossword B6
 TV Listings B9
 Weather C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); ARMS TRADE (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (76%); HAMAS (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); SHOOTINGS (75%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (73%); SPACECRAFT (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); AL-QAEDA (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); RELIGION (73%); AL FATAH (71%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (69%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (69%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (69%); WATER QUALITY (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); SPACE STATIONS (60%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (60%); LACROSSE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (56%); AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (92%); EGYPT (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



367 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Unfreezes Millions in Aid To Palestinians

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18 

 BODY:
The United States on Monday ended an economic and political embargo of the Palestinian Authority in a bid to bolster President Mahmoud Abbas and the new Fatah-led emergency government he has established in the West Bank as a counterweight to Hamas-controlled Gaza.
 The American decision freed up tens of millions of dollars in aid to the Palestinians that has been frozen since the Hamas victory in legislative elections in early 2006. The European Union similarly announced plans to resume direct aid to the Palestinians, while Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said Israel would release to Mr. Abbas Palestinian tax revenues that Israel has withheld since Hamas took control of the Palestinian parliament. 
 But in siding so firmly with Mr. Abbas, the Bush administration steered into new territory in its dealings with the Palestinians, as it essentially threw its support behind the dismantling of a democratically elected government. Mr. Abbas's decision to strip Hamas of its representation in the National Security Council to form a new emergency government has already kindled a legal battle over whether he has overstepped boundaries laid out in the Palestinian constitution.
 The American moves amount to a major step toward what some call a ''West Bank first'' strategy in which money, aid and international political recognition would be heaped on the West Bank, leaving Gaza to be ruled by Hamas, largely as its fief.
 But Middle East experts said the Palestinian constitution might allow Mr. Abbas's emergency government to remain in power for only 60 days, and Hamas, which won the last legislative elections, has indicated that it will not agree to new elections on Mr. Abbas's timetable.
 ''We are going to support President Abbas and what he wants to do,'' Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said in announcing the change in policy. She said the United States would work to ''restructure'' and unfreeze $86 million in aid that was originally set out to help Mr. Abbas build up his security forces. It was frozen because Hamas would not renounce violence, was considered a terrorist group and did not believe Israel had a right to exist.
 By diplomatic standards, the American response to the upheaval in the Palestinian territories has come about at the speed of lightning. It was less than a week ago that Hamas gunmen routed rival Fatah forces in Gaza, and took control over Fatah-run outposts on the teeming strip on the Mediterranean. Mr. Abbas called it a coup, dissolved the national unity government and announced a new cabinet made up of his allies and situated in the West Bank, where Fatah remains strong. 
 At least for now, the United States and Europe appear in agreement that perhaps the only way to salvage some advantage from the Hamas victory in Gaza is to bolster Mr. Abbas in the West Bank, in order to provide Palestinians there and in Gaza with a preview of what life could be like with a pro-Western government in charge.
 Ms. Rice, in response to a question at a news conference on Monday, said she considered Mr. Abbas's new government to be legitimate. ''I think we will leave to the Palestinians issues of how they work through their own constitutional issues,'' she said. ''Our view, very strongly, is that what President Abbas has done is legitimate and it is responsible and we're going to support that action.''
 But Daniel Levy, a senior fellow at the New America Foundation and a former Israeli peace negotiator, said the American move to back Mr. Abbas ''looks suspiciously like there's an effort afoot to reimpose single party rule on the Palestinian body politic.''
 President Bush, who is to meet with Mr. Olmert at the White House on Tuesday, informed Mr. Abbas of the policy shift during a telephone conversation on Monday. Mr. Abbas moved quickly to capitalize on the shift, telling Mr. Bush that it was time to restart Middle East peace talks with Israel, his spokesman said. That is something that Ms. Rice has been pushing but, so far, with little overt backing from Mr. Bush.
 ''Everyone has looked over into the abyss and seen what happens when moderates don't come together,'' said David Makovsky, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. ''What we're seeing now is a second chance for everybody.''
 Administration officials said Monday that Mr. Bush might use the coming five-year anniversary of his announcement of a roadmap toward a two-state solution for Israelis and Palestinians as an occasion to throw his weight behind a renewed push for peace talks.
 Plans for a regional meeting next week between Arab and Israeli officials, along with representatives from Europe, the United Nations and the United States, were put on the shelf for now, Arab officials said. But in a telephone call with Mr. Olmert, King Abdullah II of Jordan urged Israelis and Palestinians to restart the peace process.
 Officially, Bush administration officials insisted they would not write off Gaza, and Ms. Rice said the United States would give $40 million to the United Nations to finance relief projects there. ''It is the position of the United States that there is one Palestinian people and there should be one Palestinian state,'' she said. ''We will not leave one and a half million Palestinians at the mercy of terrorist organizations.''
 A ''West Bank first'' strategy would mean leaning on the Israeli government to dismantle settlements, ease up on travel restrictions for Palestinians moving around the West Bank, and release a substantial number of Palestinian prisoners being held by Israel, Middle East experts said. Such moves would probably require significant prodding from the Bush administration; it is unclear whether Mr. Bush, who has thus far refrained from pressuring Israel to make political concessions to Mr. Abbas, will actually do so now.
 ''This is as serious as it gets,'' said Ziad Asali, head of the American Task Force on Palestine. ''It is time to lift the siege off the Palestinian people. This is the time to open up the political and economic horizons, and wage a campaign for the hearts and minds of the Palestinian people.''
 The Associated Press reported that a Hamas spokesman, Sami Abu Zuhri, accused the international community of hypocrisy, noting that Hamas had defeated Fatah in parliamentary elections in 2006. ''This confirms the falseness of the international community's support for democracy,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); AL FATAH (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TERRORISM (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COUPS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (90%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (94%); EUROPE (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



368 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Some Lenders Are Setting Rates College by College

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
Andrew M. Cuomo, attorney general of New York, said yesterday in a letter to Congress that his investigation of the student loan business had found ''a significant number of lenders'' that determine eligibility for private loans and set interest rates based in large part on the colleges the students attend rather than the borrowers' credit-worthiness. 
 ''Just as lenders in the mortgage industry once made judgments about credit lending in entire neighborhoods as a whole,'' Mr. Cuomo wrote, referring to a practice known as redlining, ''so too are lenders making generalized judgments about student and parent risk based on a student's school neighborhood.'' He did not name any lenders that engaged in these practices.
 He sent the letter to Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the Senate banking committee, and Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Committee on Education and Labor. Both committees have been studying the student loan business.
 The letter provided an illustration of the practice of a large lender that divided colleges into groups based on how their alumni repaid federally subsidized loans, the standard measurement of default. 
 Students at colleges with default rates of 3 percent or less, the letter said, were eligible for private loan interest rates of 8 percent to 9.25 percent. At schools with default rates of 3 percent to 5 percent, students could obtain loans at interest rates of 9 percent to 12 percent. And at colleges with default rates of 5 percent to 10 percent, students paid interest rates of 11 percent to 14 percent. 
 Rates on private loans, which are usually more costly than those on federally subsidized loans, varied within those ranges depending on the student's credit record.
 The result, Mr. Cuomo said, was that a student with a good financial record at Duke University paid 8 percent for a private loan, for example, while a student with the same credit record who attended the University of Phoenix paid 11 percent. 
 ''Simply because of the school the student has chosen to attend, he is paying a 3 percent higher interest rate on what are often massive student loans,'' Mr. Cuomo wrote. 
 Several bankers said that it was not unreasonable to consider whether students would be able to repay loans based on factors like graduation rates at the colleges they attended and what they studied.
 Taige P. Thornton, president of NorthStar Education Finance Inc., a nonprofit lender in St. Paul, said: ''It's really an issue of being prudent and being able to secure debt. Words like good and bad, right and wrong, really don't come into this.'' In assessing credit risk, NorthStar considered several factors, ''including school, discipline and historical data,'' he said.
 Representative Miller and Senator Dodd said that they were concerned about the possible unfairness of a college-by-college approach.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); HISTORY (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



369 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; FINDINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Taxes a Pleasure? Check the Brain Scan

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
The University of Oregon announced a new piece of research last week with a startling headline: ''Paying taxes, according to the brain, can bring satisfaction.''
 Could this be true? The research is in the new issue of Science, so it's got the right pedigree, but still. How could politicians have gotten it so wrong? Even the most liberal Democratic candidates never imagined a lot of voters whistling as they merrily write out checks to the I.R.S. 
 Before any campaign strategists start poring over brain-scan data in the paper, let me temper the happy news. First, this study did not exactly involve a nationally representative sample of taxpayers. The sample consisted of 19 female students at the University of Oregon. And they were not exactly paying taxes as the T-word is understood on the campaign trail.
 It is a fascinating bit of research, not so much for its political implications but for what it reveals about humans' compulsion to be nice. We preach altruism to our children and occasionally even practice it ourselves. Viewers of ''American Idol'' weren't surprised to see even Simon Cowell sounding like Albert Schweitzer when he visited sick children in Africa; we expect at least a show of altruism from everyone. 
 We are so convinced of our goodness that we recoil at the philosophers and social scientists who have come up with less uplifting explanations for our behavior. (What is it with these nasty academics?) 
 Kant considered acts motivated by sympathy as not praiseworthy, because they make the do-gooder feel better. Psychologists have similarly argued that ''empathy altruism'' is ultimately selfish, because of the emotional benefits it provides to the giver. 
 The sociobiologist Robert Trivers worked out the mathematics of ''reciprocal altruism,'' whereby our urge to be nice ultimately serves to propagate our genes by inducing others to cooperate with us. If you know that even Simon Cowell cannot help being altruistic, you are more inclined to give him help when he desperately needs it.
 Some economists have attributed altruism to the ''warm glow'' effect -- the pleasurable feeling of playing Lady Bountiful and basking in public admiration. They've argued that there is no such thing as ''pure altruism.'' But now the pure variety has been spotted in the brains of students, at least according to the new paper by a psychologist, Ulrich Mayr, and two economists, William T. Harbaugh and Daniel R. Burghart, all at the University of Oregon.
 Their experiment was drawn up to remove some of the usual incentives for being charitable like the fear of looking stingy or the prestige of being named in the program of a charity dinner. Each student was given $100 and told that nobody would know how much of it she chose to keep or give away, not even the researchers who enlisted her in the experiment and scanned her brain. Payoffs were recorded on a portable memory drive that the students took to a lab assistant, who then paid the students in cash and mailed donations to charity without knowing who had given what.
 The brain responses were measured by a functional M.R.I. machine as a series of transactions occurred. Sometimes the student had to choose whether to donate some of her cash to a local food bank. Sometimes a tax was levied that sent her money to the food bank without her approval. Sometimes she received extra money, and sometimes the food bank received money without any of it coming from her. 
 Sure enough, when the typical student chose to donate to the food bank, she was rewarded with that warm glow: increased activity in the same ancient areas of the brain -- the caudate, nucleus accumbens and insula -- that respond when you eat a sweet dessert or receive money. But these pleasure centers were also activated, albeit not as much, when she was forced to pay a tax to the food bank.
 This doesn't mean that the student, or anyone else, would necessarily enjoy writing a check to the Internal Revenue Service that would be spent on plenty of programs less appealing than a food bank. It is more like the tax collected by a state lottery that dedicates its profits to schools. (And you can see why the lotteries work so well on the brain -- they are stimulating greed and altruism at the same time.) 
 But the results do bolster the case for ''pure altruism,'' because the student paying the tax could not take personal credit for deciding to feed the hungry. In real life, she might get a warm glow by voting for a candidate who promised higher taxes to help the needy, but in this experiment she did not make any choice at all.
 ''The most surprising result is that these basic pleasure centers in the brain don't respond only to what's good for yourself,'' said Dr. Mayr, the psychologist. ''They also seem to be tracking what's good for other people, and this occurs even when the subjects don't have a say in what happens.''
 Dr. Harbaugh, one of the economists, said the results did not resolve the debate over whether to help the needy with public programs or private charity. ''There's something for both sides here,'' he said. ''We're showing that paying taxes does produce a neural reward. But we're showing that the neural reward is even higher when you have voluntary giving.''
 Of course, not everyone receives the same neural rewards from giving. The researchers divided their subjects into ''egoists'' and ''altruists,'' according to whether their brains registered more pleasure receiving money themselves or more pleasure watching money go to the charity. 
 There were almost equal numbers of egoists and altruists, and their brain scans correlated with their altruistic behavior. The altruists chose to donate $20 on average, while the egoists gave just $11. Unfortunately, the researchers did not ask the students in either group for their political preferences, so we cannot even begin to speculate who is stingier, Democrats or Republicans.
 The most intriguing results were the ones from two of the experimental subjects, students whose brain scans made them definite egoists yet who were also among the most generous in donating. You could dismiss them as statistical outliers, but I like to think we have finally spotted the creature dismissed by so many scholars as myth.
 These two women enjoyed no neural reward from charity -- their brains didn't get enough of a warm glow to compensate for the pain of parting with their money -- yet they made anonymous donations anyway. Diogenes, we may not have found an honest man, but we do seem to have located a couple of true altruists. Either that or two determined masochists. 

GRAPHIC: Drawings: (Drawings by Viktor Koen)(Pgs. F1 & F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRAIN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); STATISTICS (75%); CHILDREN (67%); REALITY TELEVISION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (93%)

PERSON: SIMON COWELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



370 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Owners Push New Arena, But Residents Fear Change

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK, June 18 

 BODY:
After all the years of hyperbolic talk, the failed promises and the false starts, the behemoth looming over downtown is a steel and glass affirmation that good things can happen to this star-crossed city. 
 ''I never thought I'd see something like this in my lifetime,'' Ada Wells, 82, said as she ambled by the hulking frame of the Prudential Center, a $375 million arena that will be home to the New Jersey Devils, Seton Hall University's basketball team and, the arena's owners say, boxing matches, ice-skating shows and concerts, starting with 10 nights of Bon Jovi when the arena opens in late October. 
 But like many residents, Ms. Wells, a retired housekeeper who has lived here most of her life, seemed stumped when asked if she would be buying tickets for an event at the arena. ''Well, I'm not sure this thing is really for people like me,'' she said hesitantly before continuing down Broad Street with a battered shopping cart. 
 The subtext of her comment was whether Newark's largely poor and minority population will benefit from one of the most ambitious and expensive ventures in New Jersey in a generation. As King Cooley, 58, a Customs Service employee put it, ''Everyone knows hockey is a white man's sport.'' 
 City officials and the arena's owners speak rapturously about the building's potential: the hundreds of food concession and maintenance jobs on the inside, the employment possibilities offered by the upscale restaurants, sports bars and hotels that are expected to take root nearby. 
 ''I'm optimistic that the arena will create enduring opportunities for Newark residents and it will be a revenue generator for the city for years to come,'' said Mayor Cory A. Booker. He was once a vociferous critic of the project's financing, which required a $210 million investment from City Hall under the previous administration, but is now a booster. 
 To gain Mr. Booker's backing last fall, the Devils' principal owner, Jeffrey Vanderbeek, agreed to provide close to 5,000 free tickets each season for local children and $250,000 each year for youth sports and recreation. He also promised that Newark residents would get first dibs on permanent arena jobs. 
 As 700 construction workers raced toward an Oct. 25 deadline, Mr. Vanderbeek led visitors on a tour on Friday of the sales center of one of the nation's most tricked-out sports arenas. There will be 750 flat-screen televisions, five ribbons of advertising zippers and a half dozen meeting rooms for community groups. 
 It remains unclear how well the Prudential Center's 14,500 general admission seats will sell on game nights. But Mr. Vanderbeek said that 96 percent of the 10,000 season ticket holders at the Devils' former home in the Meadowlands had renewed, and that 3,000 new season tickets had been sold. All of the most expensive luxury suites -- $285,000 for 18-seat boxes -- have been bought, as have the arena's 2,114 ''club seats,'' which run along both sides of the arena's midsection with access to a pair of private lounges. 
 ''We've got a waiting list of 420 names,'' he said with feigned disappointment about the club seats. ''I wish we had more to sell.'' 
 Prospective buyers have clearly been swayed by the dog-and-pony show that takes place day and night on the 33rd floor of the nearby National Newark Building, where sales agents entertain corporate executives and show off full-scale models of the Fire Lounge and a luxury box with plush seating and granite countertops. 
 Mr. Vanderbeek began a tour on Friday at the elevator banks, where a window provides a bird's-eye glimpse of Newark's Pennsylvania Station three blocks from the arena, the tangle of highways just beyond and the smog-cloaked Manhattan skyline in the distance. The view gives Mr. Vanderbeek an opportunity to talk up ''accessibility,'' the idea that Newark is a 19-minute train ride from New York or Hoboken and a quick dash from Newark Liberty International Airport. 
 The final punch is delivered in a luxury box mock-up. After he reviews the touch-screen food menus and the suites' proximity to the ice, a promotional film gives close-ups of body-checking hockey players, cocktail parties full of smartly dressed executives and a gushing testimonial by the mayor. ''See you in Newark,'' a player exclaims at the end. ''You better save me a seat!'' 
 Then the screen retracts to reveal a bank of windows that perfectly frame the new arena, a block-wide structure wedged into the center of Newark's long-suffering downtown. Before their eyes have fully adjusted to the daylight, potential buyers are gently ushered into the ''closing room,'' where they can opt to buy one of the remaining 12-seat boxes for $225,000 a year for a minimum of three years. 
 A former Lehman Brothers investment banker, Mr. Vanderbeek has made a calculated gamble that hockey fans will find Newark more appealing than the Meadowlands, where the Devils have spent more than two decades playing to dismal crowds in the aging Continental Airlines Arena.
 Mr. Vanderbeek's investment was significantly burnished in February, when AEG, which owns and operates stadiums and arenas across the country, announced it would manage the Prudential Center and bring in 30 to 40 nonsporting events a year, including concerts and professional wrestling matches. Executives of the company, which is also building a 25,000-seat soccer stadium for the Red Bulls in nearby Harrison, say they hope to draw three million visitors a year to what they describe as an entertainment district. 
 By now both Mr. Vanderbeek and Nick Sakiewicz, president of AEG New York/New Jersey, have become well practiced at swatting away those who suggest that hockey's largely suburban fan base will be skittish about traveling to a city that has a stubborn reputation for lawlessness. ''This is a way for people to get a taste of Newark,'' Mr. Sakiewicz said as he walked through the arena. ''And to see that there aren't burning cars in the streets, that there are thousands of professionals working here and that there is a reason to stay after dark.''
 On the streets surrounding the arena, property owners who have sat on vacant buildings for years are beginning to stir. 
 Two hockey-themed taverns have opened in recent months, Hell's Kitchen and the Arena Bar, and a third, the Devil's Advocate, is under renovation in a nearby building used as a residence by Seton Hall students. Samer Hanini, a developer, is renovating a loft building whose residents will be near the arena's brick and glass facade. A hotel is slated to be built on Mulberry Street across from the arena's main entrance, but ground is not expected to be broken until well after the arena opens. 
 Stefan Pryor, the city's deputy mayor for economic development, said he began receiving calls from potential investors soon after the arena's skeleton began rising outside the window of his City Hall office. Earlier this month, the city created the Brick City Development Corporation, a quasi-public agency that will dole out $11 million in incentives to prospective businesses. 
 Mr. Pryor said he hoped developers would be further entranced by the $17 million streetscape project, financed with state, city and private money, that in the coming months will improve the area around Broad and Market Streets. 
 ''Interest has been swirling around this arena,'' he said. ''No doubt about it.'' 
 But those who study the economic impact of urban arenas say much of the profit, at least early on, typically ends up in the pockets of owners, not residents of surrounding neighborhoods. 
 Mark S. Rosentraub, dean of theCollege of Urban Affairs at Cleveland State University who has analyzed similar projects, said the most successful arenas are those planned as part of ambitious redevelopment proposals that use public money to leverage private investment in the surrounding area. 
 ''The problem is if you don't have a large commitment of private dollars, it can be risky,'' he said. While city officials are working with developers to build thousands of market-rate apartments near the arena, those plans remain on the drawing board. 
 Then there are those who worry that too much success will doom the hair-braiding salons, hip-hop clothing stores and other downtown businesses that cater to residents. 
 Soon H. Yu, the owner of Three Stars Clothing, has done well selling Tupac Shakur T-shirts and dollar-sign pendants encrusted with cubic zirconia. Although she does not know much about the Devils, Ms. Yu has learned a thing or two from the shoppers who come to her store, which is across Broad Street from the arena.
 ''If it was basketball, that is a good thing, but hockey is no good,'' she said flashing a sour expression. ''I don't want to lose black people because they make good business.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: An inside view of the $375 million Prudential Center in downtown Newark, the new home of the New Jersey Devils hockey team.(pg. B1)
 The Prudential Center as seen from the Devils' offices on Broad Street in downtown Newark. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg.B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ICE HOCKEY (76%); HOTEL STAFF (74%); TICKET SALES (73%); YOUTH SPORTS (70%); BASKETBALL (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); ICE SKATING (55%); BOXING (55%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (51%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (91%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



371 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Sifting the Garbage for a Green Polymer

BYLINE: By NONNY DE LA PENA

 BODY:
Carbon dioxide. Orange peels. Chicken feathers. Olive oil. Potato peels. E. coli bacteria. It is as if chemists have gone Dumpster diving in their hunt to make biodegradable, sustainable and renewable plastics. Most bioplastics are made from plants like corn, soy, sugar cane and switch grass, but scientists have recently turned to trash in an effort to make so-called green polymers, essentially plastics from garbage. 
 Geoff Coates, a chemist at Cornell, one of the leaders in the creation of green polymers, pointed to a golden brown square of plastic in a drying chamber. 
 ''It kind of looks like focaccia baking, doesn't it?'' Dr. Coates said. ''That's almost 50 percent carbon dioxide by weight.'' 
 Dr. Coates's laboratories occupy almost the entire fifth floor of the Spencer T. Olin Laboratory at Cornell, and have a view not only of Cayuga Lake and the hills surrounding Cornell, but of a coal power plant that has served as a kind of inspiration. It was here that Dr. Coates discovered the catalyst needed to turn CO2 into a polymer.
 With Scott Allen, a former graduate student, Dr. Coates has started a company called Novomer, which has partnered with several companies, including Kodak, on joint projects. Novomer has received money from the Department of Energy, New York State and the National Science Foundation. Dr. Coates imagines CO2 being diverted from factory emissions into an adjacent facility and turned into plastic. 
 The search for biocomposite materials dates from 1913, when both a French and a British scientist filed for patents on soy-based plastic. 
 ''There was intense competition between agricultural and petrochemical industries to win the market on polymers,'' said Bernard Tao, a professor of agricultural and biological engineering at Purdue. Much of the early research on bioplastics was supported by Henry Ford, who believed strongly in the potential of the soybean. One famous 1941 photo shows Ford swinging an ax head into the rear of a car to demonstrate the strength of the soy-based biocomposite used to make the auto body. But soy quickly lost out to petrochemical plastics. 
 ''In those days you had a lot more oil around, and you could dig it up all year round,'' Dr. Tao said. ''You didn't have to wait until the growing season.''
 And there was another problem: permeability. The soy plastic was not waterproof. ''Petroleum is biologically and relatively chemically inert, '' explained Dr. Tao. ''Most living systems require water.'' 
 Fossil fuels -- inexpensive, abundant and water resistant -- quickly dominated the plastics market. Now, agriculture-based plastics are back in the running, and with the type of catalysts developed by Dr. Coates and others, a whole new array of polymers has become commercially viable. 
 Choosing carbon dioxide as a feedstock for a polymer was not an obvious choice. It was what Dr. Coates called ''a dead molecule.''
 ''CO2 has almost no reactivity,'' he said, ''and that's why it's used in fire extinguishers.'' So what made him choose carbon dioxide? ''It's highly abundant and really cheap. We picked it for environmental and economic reasons, not for its reactivity.''
 Mix carbon dioxide with an epoxide, he explained, ''and the two would just stare at each other for a hundred years.'' This despite the fact that epoxides are the base derivative for sticky epoxy resins and glues. The key is in finding the right catalyst to open a pathway for the carbon dioxide and the epoxide to bond. 
 ''Catalysts are like a matchmaker who make a marriage and then can go off and make other marriages, Dr. Coates said. ''They accelerate a reaction without being consumed by that reaction.'' His catalyst -- beta-diiminate zinc acetate, or ''zinc-based pixie dust,'' in Dr. Coates's words -- was designed to speed ''a reaction from a geological time scale to the laboratory time scale.'' 
 Dr. Coates is creative with these matchmakers, having developed a catalyst to turn orange peels into a type of Styrofoam. 
 At a meeting of the American Chemical Society in Boston this summer, Dr. Coates will be co-chairman of a symposium on sustainability, ''Polymers from Renewable Resources.'' One of the speakers is Richard Wool, a University of Delaware chemist who works with a material even less glamorous than orange peels: chicken feathers. 
 Professor Wool and his graduate students designed a composite made from soybeans and the down of chicken feathers -- two agricultural products in abundance in Delaware -- as an exhibition for the state fair. After seeing the composite, a Tyson Foods engineer approached Professor Wool, offered him two billion pounds of chicken feathers, and an unlikely partnership was born. Despite the madcap premise, Professor Wool used the material to design a circuit board he said is a lighter, stronger, cheaper product with high-speed electronic properties. In short, the feathers allow extra air flow and do not expand like plastic when heated, so the hotter temperatures that come with higher speeds are less problematic.
 Professor Wool is also working with olive oil and other high-oleic oils to create rubber, paint and what he calls biocompatible adhesives; he envisions making bandages that would work more like skin.
 His prototypes have been shown at the London Science Museum, and the federal Department of Agriculture has given him a half-million dollars to support his research. Recently, his company, Cara Plastics, started working with DynaChem to mass produce his soy-based resin.
 Green polymer businesses seem to be springing up everywhere. Rodenburg BioPolymers, a Dutch company, makes plastic from potato waste. Metabolix, based in Boston, grows a natural form of polyester inside genetically modified E. coli bacteria.
 Dr. Tao, of Purdue, said history was repeating itself, in a way. ''Its almost like we're seeing the same competition over who will dominate the plastic market as we did a hundred years ago,'' he said. ''But this time it is a very different race.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: REUSE, RECYCLE: A circuit board, above, made from a polymer consisting partly of chicken feathers. Geoff Coates, below left, and Scott Allen, with the polymer reactor at Cornell, have started a company to develop bioplastics. (Photographs by Above, Dawn Marie Fiore/University of Delaware
 below, Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE PLASTICS (91%); CHEMISTRY (90%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (90%); BACTERIA (90%); PLASTICS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PETROCHEMICALS (89%); EMISSIONS (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); PLASTICS MARKETS (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); E COLI (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



372 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Schools Plan To Pay Cash For Marks

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
New York City students could earn as much as $500 a year for doing well on standardized tests and showing up for class in a new program to begin this fall, city officials announced yesterday. And the Harvard economist who created the program is joining the inner circle of Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein, according to an official briefed on the hiring. 
 The economist, Roland G. Fryer, who has published several studies on racial inequality in public schools, met this month with school principals around the city to push his program, which uses money raised privately. 
 Both Mr. Klein and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg have been eager to hear Professor Fryer's thoughts on how to reverse the persistent lagging of poor and minority students, who make up most of the city's public school enrollment. But educators have been skeptical, saying students have to love learning for its own sake, not for cash prizes.
 Now Professor Fryer will be the Department of Education's ''chief equality officer,'' a member of the chancellor's senior staff. The title is meant to reflect his primary focus -- to improve the performance of black and Hispanic students. 
 The school incentive program is part of the mayor's wider antipoverty initiative, which also includes other cash payments, all raised privately, to influence behavior and reduce poverty. Details of the various incentive programs were announced yesterday by Linda Gibbs, the deputy mayor for health and human services, at a briefing at City Hall. The incentive programs are expected to attract more than 2,500 families in Harlem; Brownsville and East New York in Brooklyn; and the Morris Heights and East Tremont sections of the Bronx, she said. 
 Cash incentives for adults will include $150 a month for keeping a full-time job and $50 a month for having health insurance. Families will also receive as much as $50 per month per child for high attendance rates in school, as well as $25 for attending parent-teacher conferences. 
 The city has already raised much of the $53 million it needs for the program, Ms. Gibbs said. The effort, which officials said was the broadest ever tried in this country to pay poor people to develop good habits, is modeled in part on one in Mexico.
 Although Professor Fryer helped devise some of the broader incentives like the payments for high attendance rates, his main proposals involve payments to children for doing well on tests.
 Under his plan, fourth-grade students will receive up to $25 for a perfect score on each of 10 standardized tests throughout the year. Seventh-grade students will be able to earn twice as much -- $50 per test, for a total of up to $500. Fourth graders will receive $5 just for taking the test, and seventh graders will get $10.
 Officials expect up to 40 schools to participate this fall, with a total of 9,000 students, in the pilot phase of the program, which will be monitored by Professor Fryer. After two years, they said, they will evaluate it for possible expansion.
 Principals in the system's empowerment initiative -- who have more autonomy to run their schools -- can choose to join the program. 
 Similar, smaller programs for cash incentives to raise schoolchildren's performance have been put in place elsewhere in the country. In Chelsea, Mass., for instance, students can receive $25 for perfect attendance. And in Dallas, some schools hand over $2 for every book a child reads. 
 Despite the criticism of the program from some teachers and principals, some community leaders praised Professor Fryer's idea yesterday as an inventive way to encourage students to do well in school.
 ''I'm willing to say let's see what works,'' said Darwin Davis, the president of the Urban League. ''We are in a capitalist society and people are motivated by money across race and across class, so why not?'' 
 But Mr. Davis also cautioned that the amounts of money being offered were relatively paltry in New York. 
 ''I wish $50 could be enough for an insurance payment, but that's not going to be the case,'' he said, wondering aloud how many tests students would need to pass to buy the latest video game. 
 Sol Stern, a fellow at the conservative Manhattan Institute, called the idea a ''insult to every hard-working parent.'' 
 Mr. Stern has said he would support paying teachers more to work in low-performing schools.
 But he cautioned against giving too much credence to the notion that money would prod students. He said the mayor was being a ''sucker for the market system.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); MAYORS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); FAMILY (86%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CHILDREN (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



373 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; In the trenches The Discharge Planner; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Listener, Wrangler, Traffic Cop: Bridging Gaps Between Hospital and Home

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN

 BODY:
Almost as soon as patients are admitted to 9 Silver, a general medicine floor at Beth Israel Medical Center in downtown Manhattan, Alicia Tennenbaum starts planning how to get them to leave.
As a hospital discharge planner, Ms. Tennenbaum is a health care traffic cop, patrolling a wildly busy intersection of medical, economic and social challenges. On 9 Silver, she visits patients who are elderly, impoverished or just reeling from a diagnosis, asking: Do you need a ride home? Do you have a home? Do you need help with shopping, meals? Grab bars in the shower? Physical therapy? Do you have someone who can get you to check-ups?
 ''Sometimes, a successful day just means I was able to get someone transportation home from the hospital,'' Ms. Tennenbaum says as she clips and unclips her long brown hair in frustration. 
 She begins her day by ferreting out a dozen patients' charts and speed-reading them, debriefing doctors in a staccato dense with acronyms. It's the responsibility of Ms. Tennenbaum, a 30-year-old social worker, to translate diagnoses and prescriptions into the practical impact on patients' lives, setting up plans for care after discharge. With clipped intensity, she wrangles slots in rehabilitation centers, the delivery of medical equipment or extra hours of an aide's help. 
 Several times a week, administrators scrutinize the cases of Ms. Tennenbaum and 14 other social workers on medical-surgical floors: when patients stay in the hospital longer than allowed by their insurance plan, the hospital may have to eat the cost.
 Although Ms. Tennenbaum works for the hospital, she must also advocate for patients. Sometimes those interests conflict. On a recent Monday morning, reviewing the patients who had been discharged over the weekend, she spotted a name and her jaw tightened: a doctor had signed out a patient before Ms. Tennenbaum had finalized plans for a home health aide. ''I need to re-educate that doctor!'' she said tersely.
 ''Discharge planners are put in impossible situations,'' said Dr. Eric Coleman, a Denver geriatrician who studies health care transition problems. ''But there is expanding evidence to show that hospitals are not preparing people properly for aftercare.'' When patients are poorly prepared for discharge, Dr. Coleman has written, they become vulnerable to medication errors, improper care and other complications that can put them right back in the hospital. 
 Hospitals must ensure that a patient's transition is ''safe and adequate'' to comply with accreditation standards and state health department regulations and to remain eligible for Medicaid and Medicare reimbursements. But increasingly, discharge responsibilities are being assigned to clerical staff members rather than nurses or social workers.
 Despite six years in a job with low status and a high burnout rate, Ms. Tennenbaum seems to thrive as a troubleshooter. During her childhood in northern New Jersey, she watched a relative struggle with mental illness and alcoholism. She can still taste the residue of helplessness from those sieges. 
 ''Now I try to give patients a sense of control, a concrete sense of something that can be done,'' she says while typing up action plans in her oversized shoebox of an office behind the nurses' station. '' 'O.K., I'm going to help you with XYZ, just to get you through the day.' '' 
 It's time to meet the patient in 14A, an elderly woman contorted in bed. Ms. Tennenbaum introduces herself to Ms. 14A's adult daughters, who are helping pay for their mother's care. To them, Ms. Tennenbaum is the personification of the Incompetent Institution. They seethingly detail problems that led to three hospitalizations in two weeks.
 Ms. Tennenbaum lets them vent, interjecting with quick questions of clarification. She knows they are frantic. ''Your mother is bed-bound, but she has so many doctors,'' she says. ''She needs one doctor as her gatekeeper.'' The daughters nod. ''I know there are some doctors who will make home visits. Do you think this will be helpful?'' 
 Next, she heads down the hall to 16B. The patient is in his late 30s, with a bandaged, drained abscess in his armpit. He is supposed to be discharged today. He still needs a strong course of antibiotics, but he has no insurance. 
 Ms. Tennenbaum suggests applying for Medicaid. ''Do you work?'' she asks.
 Yes, he says, as a security guard. 
 ''You probably earn too much to qualify,'' she says. Looking worried, Mr. 16B says his benefits cover only outpatient visits to his union's clinic. The battle over his hospital bills will continue for months; prescriptions require payment up front. ''We'll approve two weeks for you,'' Ms. Tennenbaum says. 
 Mr. 16B looks anxious: ''How much will that cost?''
 ''We'll pay,'' she replies.
 Ms. Tennenbaum's hands are tied and untied by the vagaries of insurance coverage: a young woman who needs radiation treatment but is otherwise fully functional will be discharged with round-the-clock aides because she receives Medicaid. But Ms. 14B, 81, who has a fractured pelvis and a managed Medicare plan, may only be approved for an aide four hours a day, five days a week, for a few weeks. Her middle-class family smiles politely as Ms. Tennenbaum describes obstacles and solutions, not yet comprehending their looming financial burden.
 ''But you have Parkinson's,'' Ms. Tennenbaum continues. ''That's a good diagnosis. We may be able to get you a little more therapy.''
 Housing is another roadblock. Patients without permanent addresses need a safe place to live before she can authorize their discharge. 
 ''We often have to refer them back to the same place where they weren't getting help before,'' she says. Recently, a shelter patient with a diagnosis of early-stage lung cancer remained at Beth Israel for nearly two months before the shelter cleared him to come back. 
 Under her desk, Ms. Tennenbaum keeps bags of donated clothes, and she often dips into petty cash and makes a Payless run to buy shoes for indigent patients. ''That's part of a 'safe and adequate' discharge plan, too,'' she says.
 ''So you're going home today!'' she says to Ms. 12A, a 77-year-old British patient who lives alone. Ms. Tennenbaum enumerates Ms. 12A's new services.
 ''Good show!'' replies the patient, who maintains that friends will fetch her. Chatting, Ms. 12A manages to hold Ms. Tennenbaum captive for a few more moments.
 In the hallway, Ms. Tennenbaum explains that although many people can't wait to get out of the hospital, others are afraid to leave, especially the elderly. Loneliness and the inability to make meals or even get to the bathroom frightens them. Many do not want an ambulette to take them home, wary that their frailty will be exposed to predators. 
 Ms. Tennenbaum understands. But there are sick people stalled in the E.R., needing those hospital beds.
 By 4 p.m, Ms. 12A has not been able to find a friend to take her home. Ms. Tennenbaum starts working the phones.
 It is 6:20 p.m. Ms. Tennenbaum, a newlywed, would like to be leaving for the night. Today she has met with and made calls for 10 sick people, including a repeat patient who now needs arrangements for thrice-weekly dialysis, and a bellowing man who refuses to go until he gets Dilaudid, a narcotic painkiller. 
 She checks on Ms. 12A, whose ambulette, paid by the hospital, should be arriving soon. She is eating supper, still in her hospital gown.
 Ms. Tennenbaum frets. ''You should be changed into your clothes,'' she says. ''Do you need help getting dressed? If you're not ready, the ambulette will leave and you'll have to pay for a taxi!'' 
 Ms. 12A regards Ms. Tennenbaum with a gracious smile of forbearance. ''Oh, I'm not ready to leave yet, dear,'' she says. ''I think I will stay here and finish this lovely salmon.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALICIA TENNENBAUM (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); GERIATRICS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); ACCREDITATION (77%); MEDICAID (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); MEDICARE (71%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



374 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Despite Bush's Promises, Georgians Remain Skeptical About Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: MARIETTA, Ga., June 18 

 BODY:
If President Bush thought he could win support for a comprehensive immigration bill by promising to secure the border and step up law enforcement, he would be dismayed by the reaction here.
 ''It's all window dressing,'' said Mark A. Johnson, a real estate lawyer in this fast-growing suburb of Atlanta. ''We don't believe the government has the will to enforce any of these promises. Everybody can see the folly of it, everybody but the politicians.''
 Georgia's two Republican senators would almost certainly be on the list of politicians arousing Mr. Johnson's skepticism. The two, Saxby Chambliss and Johnny Isakson, were part of the small bipartisan group that wrote the original bill. But they have been edging away from it since being strongly criticized in the state.
 The storm raging around the bill shows no sign of abating despite reassuring presidential words about strengthening border security. 
 Reagan W. Dean, a Georgia state employee, said: ''Maybe it is possible to secure the border. Maybe it is possible to establish an employee identification system. But I don't have any confidence that it will be done.'' 
 ''It really upsets me to find out that my government says, 'Yes, we can secure the border, we can detain illegal aliens, we can take all sorts of actions to enforce the law, but we will do so only if Congress provides legal status to those who are here illegally,' '' Mr. Dean said.
 The provision of the bill that appeals most to Hispanic groups and many Democrats -- a path to citizenship for millions of illegal immigrants -- generates the most opposition from conservatives. After the measure stalled in the Senate on June 7, President Bush and sponsors of the bill pledged to strengthen its security provisions in an effort to defuse opposition to the legalization program. The legislation, Mr. Bush's top domestic priority, is expected to return to the Senate floor late this week. 
 If a sampling of Georgia opinion is any evidence, the bill's path has not gotten much smoother. 
 Louis S. Hunter, a pollster and political analyst based in Atlanta, said, ''Congress and the president are completely out of touch with how people here feel about illegal immigration.''
 Senator Chambliss, who is up for re-election next year, was booed last month when he defended the bill at the state Republican convention. In nearby Gwinnett County, the local Republican Party adopted a resolution last week urging both senators to ''vote no on this amnesty bill.''
 Jane V. Kidd, chairwoman of the Democratic Party of Georgia, said: ''This is not a partisan issue in Georgia. A small percentage of Democrats are supporting the bill as it stands, but a majority of Democrats and Republicans in the state do not like it.''
 Three Democrats who hope to unseat Mr. Chambliss have criticized the bill and his role in drafting it, Ms. Kidd said.
 Joan Kirchner, a spokesman for Mr. Isakson, said he had ''heard the message loud and clear.'' The senator believes that border security and law enforcement ''should be decoupled'' from proposals to legitimize the status of illegal immigrants and establish a guest-worker program, Ms. Kirchner said.
 Douglas C. Dromey, a land broker in Kennesaw, Ga., said, ''I have written off both parties on this issue.''
 In a speech last week, Mr. Bush said, ''This bill sets clear benchmarks for border security that must be met before other elements of this legislation are triggered.'' The president endorsed a proposed amendment to provide $4.4 billion to help secure the border and enforce a 1986 law that forbids the hiring of illegal immigrants.
 Mr. Hunter, a former Republican member of the Cobb County Board of Commissioners, in Marietta, said: ''Words on paper don't mean anything. When I see the fence built and guards on the border, that's when they -- Congress and the political class -- will have done their job.''
 On the other hand, Jeffrey M. Smith, an Atlanta lawyer with many clients from China, India and Mexico, said: ''The idea of a fence is just nuts. It will not stop people coming to this country. It will cost a lot of money. It will create a lot of ill will in Central and South America. It will look as if we are keeping out Hispanics, and that's what we would be doing.''
 Mr. Smith endorsed the idea of legal status for illegal immigrants.
 ''They should be naturalized, become citizens and pay taxes,'' Mr. Smith said. ''If you don't give them an amnesty, you will drive them further underground.''
 Mr. Dean, the state employee and a lifelong Republican, said: ''I can understand why Ted Kennedy and the Democratic Party are behind this bill. What I don't understand is why President Bush and some Republican senators are behind it. I frankly see this legislation as assisted suicide, for America, for the Republican Party and for all the individual politicians who support it.''
 Senator Kennedy of Massachusetts, the chief Democratic architect of the bill, has been its staunchest defender.
 People here say they believe that Mr. Isakson, a resident of Marietta, shares their concerns. More than a year ago he insisted on ''border security first,'' as a prerequisite to ''any immigration reform.'' On May 17, he and Mr. Chambliss joined Mr. Kennedy at a news conference announcing agreement on the bill.
 Mr. Johnson, the real estate lawyer, said: ''Senator Kennedy must have some sort of Svengali influence on people. They go into a backroom negotiation with him, and they come out bamboozled.''
 Some Georgians say that politics helps explain support for the bill by President Bush and some Republican senators.
 ''It's a political calculus,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''They believe that the Hispanic vote is in play, and that if we're friendly to them, they'll vote Republican.''
 A streak of economic populism runs through the comments of many Georgians.
 ''This problem was created by corporate America, which wants to keep the low-wage labor already here and bring in more through a temporary-worker program,'' said Mr. Hunter, the pollster and analyst.
 Farms, poultry plants, a booming construction industry and thousands of landscaping jobs have attracted illegal immigrants to Georgia. 
 ''Nobody thinks you can round them all up and send them home,'' Mr. Hunter said. ''Nor would we want to. But if we enforce the laws, the job market will diminish somewhat. And for every job that's lost, somebody is going home.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark A. Johnson, with his wife, Ann. ''Everybody can see the folly of it, everybody but the politicians,'' Mr. Johnson said of the immigration bill.
 Louis S. Hunter, center, said, ''Congress and the president are completely out of touch with how people here feel about illegal immigration.'' With him in Marietta, Ga., are Jimmy Meehan, left, and Douglas C. Dromey.(Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); AMNESTY (63%)

PERSON: JOHNNY ISAKSON (58%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%) GEORGIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



375 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Sean Bell Shooting Leads to Overhaul in Police Undercover Work

BYLINE: SEWELL CHAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Police Department announces 19 changes to undercover procedures -- including a new requirement that officers be given a Breathalyzer test any time they are involved in a shooting that results in injury or death -- in the wake of the Sean Bell shooting last November. 

 BODY:
The local news today is dominated by Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly's announcement yesterday of 19 changes in undercover procedures -- including a new requirement that officers be tested for alcohol consumption in all cases where they have been involved in a shooting that results in injury or death.

The recommendations, from a panel of top police commanders, are the broadest changes in official policy in years. They are a response to the police shooting in November of Sean Bell, an unarmed 23-year-old black man in Queens, which set off a wave of public protest and anger over police tactics. Two of the five officers involved in the shooting have been charged with manslaughter. 
Al Baker, police bureau chief of The Times, reports that the Rev. Al Sharpton offered qualified support for the reforms, while the head of the detectives' union, Michael J. Palladino, said the breath tests could not be unilaterally imposed by the department with a negotiation with the union. "I think it is a mandatory subject of collective bargaining," Mr. Palladino said.
The breath tests -- which could begin as early as September and be required of both on- and off-duty officers -- are especially significant. The Bell shooting, which occurred outside a nightclub, drew attention to the current policy allowing officers inside a bar or club up to two alcoholic drinks during an eight-hour shift so as not to look suspicious.
Cash Incentives for the Poor
Jennifer Medina, who covers city education for The Times, reports that pupils will be paid up to $500 a year for doing well on standardized test and showing up for class, under a program to begin this fall. The program will be overseen by Roland G. Fryer, a young Harvard economist whose work on incentives for the poor has drawn national attention. 
The New York Post explains other details of the incentives, known as "conditional cash transfers": $50 for getting a library card, $150 for working full time for a month, $200 for visiting the doctor and $3,000 for passing five Regents exams. In addition to philanthropic foundations, Mayor Bloomberg himself is contributing an unspecified amount to help finance the effort, The Daily News reports.
Braunstein Sentencing
One of the most sensational crime cases in recent memory came to a close yesterday when Peter Braunstein, the former fashion writer, was sentenced to 18 years to life. He had been convicted of kidnapping, sexual abuse and robbery for disguising himself as a firefighter last October and entering the Chelsea apartment of a 36-year-old woman, whom he molested for hours.
Anemona Hartocollis of The Times notes that Mr. Braunstein spoke publicly for the first time since the start of the trial, mumbling, "You can feel you have nothing to live for," and not once mentioning the victim.
The New York Post reports that the judge, Thomas Farber, noted that the jury had referred at one point to "Peter" in a note asking for a readback of testimony. "I find it ironic, in part because this is exactly what the defendant was and still is unable to do . . . see people around him as human beings," Justice Farber said. One juror, Scott Morris, told The Daily News: "Braunstein's disturbed, I have no doubt about that. But he has to be held responsible for what he did; that's the bottom line."
Arrest in Commune Attack
After a yearlong search, a 44-year-old woman, Rebekah Johnson, was caught in Philadelphia yesterday in connection with the shooting of the leader of Ganas, a Staten Island commune, according to The News. Ms. Johnson allegedly shot Jeff Gross, its leader, in the stomach, arm and shoulder in May 2006. She was caught after a train rider in Philadelphia recognized her from "America's Most Wanted." The Post notes that Ms. Johnson had twice been expelled from the commune before filing an unsuccessful suit alleging that she had been forced to have sex while in the commune.
Public Space, Private Space
The owners of One Sutton Place, an exclusive co-op on the East Side, are suing to block the city's efforts to seize part of their backyard -- a grassy oasis that extends over the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive and looks onto the East River -- for a public park. The city contends that the 1939 lease giving the co-op control of the yard expired in 1990; the co-op denies that. Charles V. Bagli of The Times notes that the tangled case involves figures like Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia and Robert Moses.
The Post reports that a leader of a community group in Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn, has raised hackles with his suggestions that beach access be severely curbed, with police barricades, entrance fees and the establishment of a single entrance with metal detectors.

        
Detective in Nightclub Shooting Is Restored to Full Duty
        
Could Technology Prevent Shootings of Fellow Officers?
        
Police Need More Weapons Training, Study Says
        
Bloomberg and Kelly Statements on Acquittals
        
Play Looks at Being Black With a Badge

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); SENTENCING (84%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); MANSLAUGHTER (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); CHARITIES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (64%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (64%); LITIGATION (64%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (62%); WRITERS (61%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (52%); FOUNDATIONS (50%); PHILANTHROPY (50%) alcohol; N.Y.P.D.; police shootings; Raymond W. Kelly; Sean Bell shooting; Crime & Public Safety; Morning Buzz; Police and Fire; Queens

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (68%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012



376 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Debate Over Upper West Side Towers Livens Up

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Jim Rasenberger responds to reader comments on his article about two tall apartment towers rising over the Upper West Side. 

 BODY:
[Note: Jim Rasenberger wrote an article in The City on Sunday about the disagreement over two tall glass towers rising on Broadway at 99th Street. The article has generated several dozen reader comments. City Room asked Mr. Rasenberger, the author of "High Steel: The Daring Men Who Built the World's Greatest Skyline" (2004), to respond to the comments, in the context of broad public concern about the pace and scope of development in the city.]
It's clear from the volume and intensity of these responses that architecture, though often buried under rather abstract issues like zoning variances and FAR (floor-area-ratio), is a deeply personal and serious matter to New Yorkers. It's also clear that people can feel equally passionate about the city and yet come to very different conclusions about how it should be developed.

By my count, as of this morning, the posts have been running at a little more than 3-to-2 against the new towers or, more generally, against high-rise residential development. The pro-development stance is better represented on this blog than it is at Community Board No. 7 meetings. Those meetings have been filled largely by crowds coming out to protest the Ariel towers or, more recently, to urge rezoning of the neighborhood. Ray Prisament suggests that those opposed are just more vocal than those in favor of development. The same point was made to me by Gary Barnett of Extell Development. If the community were polled, he said, it would probably come out in favor of his towers. 
Another reader, Anonymous, wonders how the Ariel towers could make neighbors so upset: "How can you be so strongly affected by a pair of new buildings?" Something that struck me in reporting this story is how truly some people are affected by new buildings -- truly affected. Batya Bauman, who writes that she felt "physically ill" when she first heard about the Ariel towers, articulates a feeling shared by many in the neighborhood. "I did not leave New York," Ms. Bauman writes. "New York left me, and I mourn for what was the best place in the world to live." 
It would be interesting to know the ages and living situations of the respondents. Are older New Yorkers more likely to resist the new development, while younger and recently arrived New Yorkers more likely to favor it? I also wonder if those in favor of high rises are more likely to live in market-priced rental units or in rent stabilized apartments and condos. (I'm guessing the former.)
Whatever an individual might stand to gain or lose personally from development, there is, of course, the subjective matter of his or her taste. James Winston suggests that it is possible to be pro-development and yet believe that "the Ariel buildings are terrible, not just because of their height, but because they are awful architecturally, devoid of any character."
But character, writes Dan Ross, is in the eye of the beholder. "How much would you be willing to bet that one day the Community Board will want to Landmark those new Broadway towers?" 
I assume Mr. Ross is joking; then again, consider the fate of the twin towers of the World Trade Center. They were roundly despised when they were built, compared in the pages of this newspaper (among other places) to "two shiny new sticks of Arrow staples, standing on end," but before they fell they had become largely accepted, even loved, by New Yorkers. So go figure.

        
Answers About Local Food in New York, Part 2
        
Answers About Preserving New York's Neighborhoods, Part 3
        
Answers About Preserving New York's Neighborhoods, Part 2
        
Answers About Preserving New York's Neighborhoods
        
Ask About Preserving New York's Historic Districts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); ZONING (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); RENT CONTROL (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (66%) community development; New York Aquarium; Upper West Side; Buildings and Landmarks; Housing & Economy; Land Use and Planning; Manhattan; People & Neighborhoods

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012



377 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2007

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: Report Depicts a Dark World of Unregulated Work

BYLINE: SEWELL CHAN


HIGHLIGHT: A new report from the Brennan Center for Justice says labor standards are routinely broken at unregulated workplaces across 13 industries. 

 BODY:
A report released today by the Brennan Center for Justice begins with this grim portrait: 
It is a world where jobs pay less than the minimum wage, and sometimes nothing at all; where employers do not pay overtime for 60-hour weeks, and deny meal breaks that are required by law; where vital health and safety regulations are routinely ignored, even after injuries occur; and where workers are subject to blatant discrimination, and retaliated against for speaking up or trying to organize.
It is the loosely regulated world of nannies, maids, busboys, dry cleaners, auto repairmen and others -- many of them immigrants -- who often work under the table and at the margins of the economy. 
The report, "Unregulated Work in the Global City: Employment and Labor Law Violations in New York City," [pdf] is the result of research conducted between 2003 and 2006, including interviews with 326 people, analysis of government records and an examination of trade and academic publications and news accounts. 
The report's authors -- Annette Bernhardt, Siobhn McGrath and James DeFilippis -- prepared an industry-by-industry discussion of unregulated work in 13 fields: groceries and supermarkets, retail stores, building maintenance and security, domestic work, child care, home health care, construction, restaurants, manufacturing, laundry and dry cleaning, taxicabs, car repair and personal services. 
The authors call for tougher enforcement of existing labor standards; updating those standards to reflect modern economic realities; and treating immigrants fairly in the workplace. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); OVERTIME (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (77%); PERSONAL SERVICES (76%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (75%); IMMIGRATION (75%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); CHILD CARE (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); RETAILERS (51%) Housing & Economy; Immigration; Labor

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012



378 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Today in Business

 BODY:
DETROIT RETHINKS ITS POSITION American automakers have reversed years of stalwart opposition to any legislation to increase fuel economy standards, and are now willing to accept a modest increase in mileage standards in the hopes of silencing calls for even tougher targets. 
 SETTING A COURSE FOR YAHOO As Jerry Yang takes over as Yahoo's chief executive, all eyes are on the next steps that Mr. Yang, the company's co-founder, will take to rejuvenate the troubled business. One of the top issues: Should Yahoo stop trying to beat Google at its own game? [C1.] 
 YouTube, Google's popular video-sharing Web site, said that it had started nine local versions of the site in countries including Brazil, Japan and Britain to build its audience worldwide. [C4.] 
 SEEKING THE BIG DEAL The two men from Pakistan who are charged with insider trading in connection with February's buyout offer for TXU, the Texas energy giant, have backgrounds that revolve around themes of hubris and aspiration. [C1.] 
 MICROSOFT SETTLES Microsoft has agreed to make changes to its Windows Vista operating system in response to a complaint by Google that a feature of Vista is anticompetitive, lawyers involved in the case said. [C1.] 
 JUDGE UPHOLDS PATENT ON PLAVIX
 A federal district judge in New York upheld the patent on the anti- clotting drug Plavix, removing a weighty uncertainty for Bristol-Myers Squibb and Sanofi-Aventis, the companies that market the widely used product. Even though the ruling had been anticipated, Plavix is such an important product for both companies that their shares rose yesterday. The judge prohibited the generic-drug producer Apotex from selling its copy of the drug in the United States. [C3.] 
 HOME DEPOT SELLS A BUSINESS Home Depot agreed to sell its Home Depot Supply Unit, which analysts had always found to be a poor fit alongside the retail operations, to a group of private equity firms for more than $10.3 billion. [C1.] 
 BAILOUT OF HEDGE FUND HITS SNAG An effort to save a troubled hedge fund at Bear Stearns hit a major hurdle when Merrill Lynch signaled that it would move forward with plans to auction $850 million in subprime securities that had been held as collateral. [C8.] 
 ANGER OVER SALES OF BLOOD The indigenous peoples of the Amazon are ideal for certain types of genetic research because they are isolated and extremely close-knit populations. But some tribes have discovered that their blood and DNA are being sold by an American concern to scientists around the world for $85 a sample. [A1.] 
 TAX BREAKS FOR 'CLEAN COAL' The Senate Finance Committee approved $28 billion in tax breaks to underwrite renewable fuels and ''clean coal'' technology, all at the expense of the oil industry. [C3.] 
 NO CHANGE IN FARM SUBSIDIES The House panel that oversees subsidies to farmers voted to maintain the status quo by extending current policies another five years, despite calls for changes in farm policy. [C3.] 
 SHOWDOWN OVER LABOR BILL Senate Democratic leaders moved to force a vote on organized labor's top legislative priority, a bill that would make it far easier to organize workers. But Republican leaders vowed to kill the measure. [A16.] 
 date for blackstone offering 
 The Blackstone Group, whose initial public stock offering is one of the most eagerly awaited events on Wall Street this year, will price its offering tomorrow night, according to the Web site of Morgan Stanley, one of the underwriters. [C2.] 
 ORDER FOR 50 MORE 787S International Lease Finance Corporation, the world's largest commercial jet leasing company, signed an agreement with Boeing for an order of 50 787 Dreamliners. [C8.] 
 NETWORKS BENEFIT BY CHANGING The willingness of the big broadcast television networks to embrace change -- by making it easier to watch shows online and by adopting new types of ratings -- is contributing to stronger demand for commercial time ahead of the fall season. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C3.] 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the daily closing price of Bristol-Myers Squibb shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); HOME CENTERS (87%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (87%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (86%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (75%); BIOFUELS (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); JUDGES (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); INSIDER TRADING (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); LAWYERS (67%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (67%); ANTICOAGULANTS (65%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%); DNA (64%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (61%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); GOOGLE INC (84%); SANOFI SA (83%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); SNY (NYSE) (83%); SANF (BIT) (83%); SAN (PAR) (83%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); BMY (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%)

PERSON: JERRY YANG (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



379 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: AIDS Research Gets a Home at Brooklyn Army Terminal

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
Late last year, the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative, a global nonprofit company that hopes to speed the development of an H.I.V. vaccine, seemed on the verge of abandoning its plan to open a new laboratory in Brooklyn. The potential defection would have dealt a serious blow to the city's long-running efforts to attract more well-paying biotechnology research and manufacturing businesses.
 IAVI, as the company is known (it is pronounced ''eye-AH-vee''), was supposed to be an anchor tenant in a new bioscience center proposed for a 486,000-square-foot portion of the city-owned Brooklyn Army Terminal that has not been used since the Korean War. But that project -- called BioBat -- appeared to be stalled.
 IAVI, however, had been awarded a $23.7 million grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and had an urgent need to get its lab up and running to meet the foundation's deadlines. When the company began negotiating for space in Cranbury, N.J., city and state officials ''finally realized that this was not an idle threat,'' Mike Goldrich, IAVI's chief operating officer, said in an interview in his downtown Manhattan office. ''It was simply a matter of us meeting the responsibilities that we had.'' 
 Ultimately, officials came up with a solution to keep IAVI in New York. Last week, IAVI signed a 15-year lease with the city for 36,000 square feet of space in the Army terminal -- not in the undeveloped southern portion of Building A that had been earmarked for biotech but rather in eighth-floor space on the north side that had already been renovated for industrial use. The city will spend $12.5 million to build IAVI's lab in time for the company to move in early next year.
 Despite the subsidy -- and the starting annual rent of $16 a square foot, less than the industrial space would have commanded -- landing IAVI as a tenant was a critical element in the state and city plans to create a biotech cluster at the Brooklyn Army Terminal, said Robert C. Lieber, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. 
 ''It's a confirmation that this is a good location,'' Mr. Lieber said. ''It helps people feel comfortable. They think, 'If a company like IAVI made the decision to go there, what do I have to worry about?' ''
 For years, New York has been second only to Boston in the amount of grant money it receives from the National Institutes of Health. Yet despite its prestigious research institutions, abundance of venture capital firms, well-educated labor pool and proximity to pharmaceutical companies, the New York area and the city have lagged behind Boston, San Francisco and other places in providing a home for start-up and early-stage biotech companies founded by scientists from local universities.
 City officials say that 114 biotech companies have a presence in New York, but most of them have offices just for marketing or clinical trials, not laboratories for research and development of new products. The city has only two incubators for start-up companies: the Audubon Business and Technology Center at Columbia University and the newer Advanced Biotechnology Park developed by SUNY Downstate Medical Center. Between them, they can accommodate about two dozen tenants. 
 Two major projects are intended to raise New York's profile in the biotech industry. Construction began in January on East River Science Park, a 1.1-million-square-foot complex that Alexandria Real Estate Equities, a real estate investment trust that specializes in bioscience, is building between 28th and 29th Streets and First Avenue and Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive. The first phase is expected to be completed in 2009.
 Last August, the city and state offered $54.5 million in subsidies toward creating a bioscience center at the Brooklyn Army Terminal. Officials said it would be designed for companies that had outgrown their incubator space and wanted to stay in New York but were unable or unwilling to pay Manhattan rents. 
 Designed by Cass Gilbert, who is best known for Beaux-Arts structures like the Woolworth Building in Lower Manhattan, the landmark Brooklyn Army Terminal is a more austere complex situated between Second Avenue and the waterfront and 58th and 65th Streets in an industrial section of the Sunset Park neighborhood. Consisting of two cavernous buildings with a total of four million square feet, it was completed in 1919 and served as a major supply depot and embarkation point during World War II.
 In the 1980s, one of the buildings was rehabilitated for industrial purposes. The other building, to house IAVI, is being renovated gradually and still has 900,000 feet of undeveloped space. These days, it is littered with pigeon droppings and feathers.
 The closest research institution, SUNY Downstate, is 20 minutes away by car, but it is not only a partner in the BioBat project but will also be a tenant. ''That was attractive to us,'' said Mr. Goldrich of IAVI. The Army terminal is accessible from Manhattan by New York Water Taxi, has concrete floors that can accommodate 250 pounds a square foot -- more than enough for lab equipment -- and even has a day care center.
 But BioBat's prospects began to dim when officials received estimates that the first phase would require an investment of at least $100 million. The space lacks electricity, elevators and bathrooms. 
 ''We found that it was more expensive than we originally anticipated to provide the infrastructure,'' said Brian Murphy, an executive vice president at the Economic Development Corporation.
 Now, however, the city and SUNY Downstate say that they are close to making a deal with Phase 3, a San Diego company with roots in the leasing end of the biotech business. Phase 3 assured officials that it could deliver the project for much less than the initial estimates, though the precise amount is still being worked out, said David Keith, the director of operations. 
 In April, Bank of America agreed to lend the project $36.1 million, according to Bob Herz, the legislative director for State Senator Martin J. Golden, a Republican from Brooklyn who has been a longtime champion of BioBat.
 Phase 3's development experience is limited. The company converted a hospital in San Diego into a bioscience center and in 2004 sold it to a REIT called BioMed Realty Trust, and it has another project in the works in Hawaii. But Phase 3 impressed officials by putting together a seasoned team, Mr. Herz said.
 One member is T. H. Chang, strategic director of science and technology for the architecture firm HOK, who has been designing research buildings for 20 years. Mr. Chang said that BioBat's cost could be reduced by getting ''more usable space out of the structure'' than was originally contemplated.
 If the project goes forward, SUNY Downstate will take 40,000 square feet, some of which will be occupied by the Northeast Center for Disaster Preparedness, a training program for emergency personnel. Though the center may seem to have a tenuous connection with biotechnology, Eva Brown Cramer, a SUNY Downstate vice president, said that one component would involve the medical school's research into equipping rats with cameras for surveillance.
 Plans for BioBat have dismayed Joel S. Marcus, the chief executive of Alexandria, which is developing East River Science Park on a speculative basis. Mr. Marcus said it was wrong for officials to initiate a second project before his development had secured a ''critical mass'' of tenants. Referring to his own project, he said, ''They should do everything they can to make this work, by making this the real focus, and by not having multiple sites and multiple distractions.''
 But Mr. Lieber said there was room in New York for both bioscience projects. Mr. Marcus wants to ''make sure he is as successful as possible,'' Mr. Lieber said. ''We have to make sure we're building a business for New York.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: An AIDS research organization will move from cramped quarters at SUNY Downstate, above, to a new lab at the Brooklyn Army Terminal. (Photograph by Robert Wright for The New York Times)
(Photograph by Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); KOREAN WAR (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (64%); VENTURE CAPITAL (60%); LABOR FORCE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



380 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan And Beyond

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr. and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
Life in the great Pakistan bull market had been good to Ajaz Rahim. He had a big house in an affluent Karachi neighborhood, a swimming pool with a wave machine and a Yamaha motorcycle that people who know him say he liked to ride without a helmet. 
 Friends said that Mr. Rahim, an admirer of Warren E. Buffett, often talked of how he had become a ''rupee billionaire'' from investments in Pakistani stocks, real estate and a recent winning streak in the American market.
 Then, in late February, it all imploded. Stock in TXU, the Texas energy giant, had spiked after a $45 billion buyout offer and Mr. Rahim had just taken $5.1 million in profit. But his broker was telling him that his assets, which regulators say exceeded $7 million, were being frozen and that American legal authorities suspected he had traded on inside information. 
 Within weeks, Mr. Rahim left Pakistan and his job at Faysal Bank, where he had overseen stock trading, and went for a time to Canada, where his wife and two children had moved, say people with knowledge of his actions. 
 In May, prosecutors charged Mr. Rahim with 26 counts of insider trading in Federal District Court in Manhattan and said in the complaints that a friend at Credit Suisse, Hafiz Muhammad Zubair Naseem, had tipped him off that TXU would be taken private before his profitable trades. 
 Now, fearing that his Pakistani origins might be enough to land him in an American jail, Mr. Rahim has returned to his hometown, Lahore, a city in northeast Pakistan, say people who have been briefed on his whereabouts.
 Mr. Rahim's lawyer, Spencer C. Barasch, declined to comment on his client's whereabouts, saying only that Mr. Rahim was not hiding but was ''letting the legal process work itself out.'' Mr. Barasch said his client was innocent and would fight the charges against him.
 The circumstances are more dire for Mr. Naseem, the former banker at Credit Suisse who is accused of feeding Mr. Rahim inside information on at least nine deals. Released on bail of $1 million, his passport confiscated and his assets frozen, Mr. Naseem remains confined to his home in Rye Brook, N.Y. 
 While the Pakistani locale may be unusual, the story of Mr. Rahim and Mr. Naseem revolves around themes of hubris and aspiration that are timeless. And it is one in a recent spate of such incidents. While many have involved Americans, others have spanned the globe, from Hong Kong to Croatia to Pakistan. 
 Mr. Rahim is one of a new generation of market players who have seen their fortunes soar as a wave of capital has propelled emerging markets to new highs, from China to India and most starkly Pakistan, where the stock market has jumped more than 800 percent since 2001. 
 Far removed from the insider trading scandals of the 1980s, these investors have become enthusiastic speculators on overseas markets. But, as they have taken on more risk, regulators say that some are violating American securities laws, prompting the authorities to range far and wide to try to catch them. 
 Since the attacks of Sept. 11, $10 billion in American aid, a stream of money from oil rich investors and a pro-economic reform government supported by Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, have produced the most explosive bull market in the country's history.
 This year the market is up 35 percent, shrugging off suicide bombs in Karachi and civil unrest protesting the rule of General Musharraf.
 While there is no evidence that Mr. Rahim used inside information in the local market, legal specialists in Pakistan say that lax regulation has created a permissive trading environment. 
 ''There is a culture of noncompliance in Pakistan,'' said Tariq Hassan, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan. ''If you can't get caught, then you have the incentive to make a quick buck.''
 Mr. Rahim, 44, and Mr. Naseem, 37, could not be more different from each other. 
 Known for his love of Cuban cigars and sleek automobiles, Mr. Rahim seems a caricature of the classic Wall Street deal maker. His social network extended deep into Pakistan business circles, and he developed a reputation as an expansive host who held frequent parties. 
 As the markets boomed, so did his wealth. ''How much do you think I'm worth,'' his associates recall him asking during a recent dinner party. ''$30 million,'' guessed one. ''Higher, higher,'' Mr. Rahim responded, according to one person who was there. 
 Mr. Barasch, the defense lawyer, says that while people have tried to guess his client's wealth, Mr. Rahim has never talked specifically about his net worth. 
 Mr. Naseem, the son of a civil servant, had little of his mentor's panache. He came to know Mr. Rahim while the two worked at American Express in Lahore in the late 1990s. In 2002, Mr. Naseem came to the United States to get a business degree at New York University. After a stint at JPMorgan, he joined Credit Suisse. He lives in a rented home in Westchester County, where he cares for a child who has cerebral palsy.
 At the time Mr. Naseem left Pakistan, Mr. Rahim's fortunes were at a low ebb. American Express was closing its operations in Pakistan, and Mr. Rahim had suffered deep losses from his investments in plummeting American technology stocks.
 In 2002 he got a break, landing a job at Faysal Bank, a small commercial bank majority owned by the Dar al-Maal al-Islami Trust, an Islamic investment conglomerate in Geneva founded by Prince Muhammad al-Faisal al-Saud, a senior member of the Saudi royal family and an advocate of Islamic-based finance principles.
 A spirited man who sports a French beard and enjoys a glass of whiskey, Mr. Rahim stood out among his more conservative colleagues within the Dar al-Maal al-Islami group, the slogan of which is ''Allah is the purveyor of all success.'' 
 People who know him say that he always envisioned himself as a market-savvy deal maker, and when capital began flowing into Pakistan after Sept. 11, Mr. Rahim, put in charge of managing Faysal Bank's stock portfolio, became an influential investor in the local market. 
 He was promoted to head of investment banking in 2005 by Faysal's chief executive, Farook Bengali. 
 Feeling flush with success, Mr. Rahim burnished his public image by financing the building of a hospital in Karachi, named after his mother. And in 2006, he led the bank's push into real estate by investing in development projects in Lahore and Islamabad.
 Unlike many investors in Pakistan who stick to the market they know, Mr. Rahim fancied himself a global investor, regardless of his losses in 2000, say people who know him. 
 In April 2006, according to the government's complaint, he began an extraordinary investment run by taking positions in nine American companies just before they were involved in takeovers or deals that allowed him to cash out quickly, culminating in the TXU trades in February. 
 In each case, the government accuses Mr. Naseem, who had joined Credit Suisse in March 2006, of tipping off Mr. Rahim that these companies would be taken over. He is accused of illegally retrieving the information from a database of Credit Suisse, which was an adviser in each deal.
 ''Let the fun begin,'' Mr. Naseem wrote in an e-mail message that he sent to a brokerage house in Karachi, asking to open up an account, according to the complaint. 
 A lawyer for Mr. Naseem, Michael F. Bachner, said that his client ''denies all allegations that he engaged in any wrongdoing,'' and that he would contest the charges in court.
 For his defense, Mr. Rahim is expected to argue that before the TXU trades, he had read a UBS research report, which said the stock sell-off represented a buying opportunity. People briefed on his defense strategy say that he also consulted a report on the Motley Fool investor Web site, as well as several articles on The Street.com. 
 Indeed, while the chronology of telephone calls and stock purchases seems persuasive on the surface, Judge James C. Francis IV, in Federal District Court in Manhattan cast some doubt on the government's case at a recent hearing, calling the evidence ''plainly inferential.''
 Arif Habib, a prominent investor in the Pakistan market, says that Mr. Rahim was known for his propensity to pass along stock tips, although Mr. Habib says that he himself never acted upon them. 
 ''He used to say that there were good opportunities in international markets,'' said Mr. Habib, the chairman of a securities firm that bears his name. ''He had the habit of talking about everything.'' 
 In its complaint, the Security and Exchange Commission contends Mr. Rahim passed along Mr. Naseem's tips to ''certain of his associates in Pakistan, including bank officers, bank directors and brokerage officials,'' and that these people also traded before the merger announcements.
 While it is unclear if any further Pakistani executives will be named, Mr. Rahim's web of relationships reached all corners of the country's business world, and such a prospect has created anxiety in a financial community that has not been exposed to any serious regulatory scrutiny.
 Reached on his cellphone, Mr. Bengali, the head of Faysal Bank, said that Mr. Naseem had never passed on any overseas stock tips to him and that Mr. Rahim had never used Faysal's capital to trade illegally. 
 He was adamant in saying that Mr. Rahim's days at the bank are over. It is a reality that is underscored by the swift disappearance of Mr. Rahim's picture from the bank's Web site, where he was once featured standing next to the man who had given him a second lease on his career.
 ''He has resigned and he is no longer with us,'' Mr. Bengali said. ''None of us are aware of such happenings. It's a complete shock.''
 Drawing: Illustration by The New York Times 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ajaz Rahim, right, was removed from the Web site of the Faysal Bank, where he was once featured standing with its top executives. (pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); GOING PRIVATE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); BAIL (66%); SCANDALS (50%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); CROATIA (79%); HONG KONG (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



381 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: The Changing Of the Guard At the Chelsea

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Someone in the new management told Stanley Bard yesterday to stop hanging around the front desk of the Chelsea Hotel, which he has run for 50 years, more or less. He had come to work a bit later than his usual 5:30 a.m., but Mr. Bard, 73, does not have an actual job any more. He was shelved this week. 
 That Mr. Bard lingered in the hotel even yesterday suggested that the New York of $1,000-a-square-foot real estate has not quite completed the extinction of the city of funk. 
 Through some blend of temperament, shrewdness and soft-touch-edness, Mr. Bard made the Chelsea, a big pile on 23rd Street, into one of the best-known hotels in the world. That had nothing to do with the thread count of its sheets or the fragrance of its bath soaps. 
 ''Billy Graham,'' he said. 
 Puzzled look.
 ''Not the evangelist,'' Mr. Bard said. ''The guy who started the Fillmore.'' 
 Ah, Bill Graham, the rock concert promoter. 
 ''Right. He told me, 'None of the other hotels will let these rock acts stay,' '' Mr. Bard said. 
 Some rolled through town and spent a few nights in the Chelsea; the Grateful Dead played on the roof. Others moved into the Chelsea's apartments, like Dee Dee Ramone, and stayed for months or years. In a torch song for his estranged wife, Sara, Bob Dylan recalled, ''Staying up for days in the Chelsea Hotel/Writing 'Sad Eyed Lady of the Lowlands' for you.'' 
 Shirley Clarke, a pioneer in avant-garde film who challenged New York State's censorship laws, had a penthouse studio. Virgil Thomson was resident for years. Brendan Behan, O. Henry, Thomas Wolfe, Dylan Thomas, all had stops there. Arthur C. Clarke wrote ''2001: A Space Odyssey'' and Pete Hamill wrote the novel ''Snow in August'' in the Chelsea. The singer and composer Rufus Wainwright has been working on an opera. Along the stairway are the paintings of residents, including a Swedish surrealist, Hawk Alfredson. Riding the elevator is Nile Cynlo, who said she's a clothing designer whose creations appeared on ''Sex and the City.'' Her work improved when she moved into the Chelsea 18 years ago. ''Because of the regular heat, my fingers weren't stiff in the winter.''
 ''The Chelsea, whatever else it was, was a house of infinite toleration,'' Arthur Miller once wrote. After his marriage to Marilyn Monroe broke up, he moved to the Chelsea and wrote ''Incident at Vichy,'' and ''After the Fall.''
 Comets flew and souls crashed on 23rd Street. Every dawn, Mr. Bard counted the open rooms. He started at the hotel in the 1950s, when his father and two partners owned it. Mr. Bard stayed, joined by his son, David. The heirs of the other partners kept out of the operations. Two years ago, a dispute over the ownership shares was decided by an arbitrator who ruled that Mr. Bard and his family control 58 percent of the economic value, but that for management purposes, the other heirs form the majority. They replaced Mr. Bard this week with a company that operates other hotels in Manhattan. 
 ONE of those heirs, David Elder, stepped into Mr. Bard's office to be sure a reporter heard another version of the history. His grandfather had been a partner with Mr. Bard's father.
 ''Stanley is the public face and has been for a long time,'' Mr. Elder said. ''It's in our families, too, but people don't know about us.'' Mr. Elder lives in California; the other shareholder aligned against Mr. Bard is Marlene Krauss, a doctor who runs a biotechnology venture capital firm.
 Mr. Bard said, ''You said you want to work together, I'm going to try.'' Mr. Elder began: ''The background of this ---- ''
 He was interrupted. A woman from a public relations firm was monitoring his remarks. ''David,'' she said. ''There's something that needs your attention.''
 As they huddled in the lobby, Mr. Bard's son, David Bard, remarked, ''We weren't afraid to plunge a toilet or speak directly to the newspapers.''
 Mr. Bard acknowledged that the place could be better run. Dr. Krauss noted that it had an occupancy rate of 65 percent last year while most city hotels were at 85 percent.
 At his desk, Mr. Bard stuck some snapshots -- Marisa Tomei, the actress, Arthur Miller's children -- into a drawer. ''A normal, everyday New Yorker is proud of the Chelsea Hotel,'' he said. ''They're proud that sometimes, money isn't the only issue involved.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); PAINTING (77%); POP & ROCK (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (69%); CENSORSHIP (68%); FASHION DESIGNERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



382 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: A Lesson That Thomas Could Teach

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A typical Thomas the Tank Engine story is a little morality play about hubris. The stories take place on the fictional Island of Sodor, where train cars with faces and personalities go about their work.
 Almost inevitably, one of the trains tries to run too fast or pull too many boxcars and ends up in a big mess. By the end of the story, though, he comes to understand what he has done wrong. As the last line of ''A Big Day for Thomas'' puts it, ''Thomas had already learned not to make the same mistake again.''
 An English clergyman named Wilbert Awdry invented the talking trains in the 1940s, while trying to entertain his son Christopher, who was laid up with the measles. The first book was published in 1945, and a new one followed every year until 1972, when Mr. Awdry retired. In the 1980s, the Thomas stories became a hit television series. These days, millions of little toy Thomas trains are sold every year around the world. 
 As you have probably heard by now, the toy trains are manufactured in China, and one of the factories that makes them has been using lead paint for the last couple of years. So last week, the United States government urged parents to confiscate 26 different kinds of Thomas toys. The manufacturer, the RC2 Corporation, asked that customers mail back the toys and promised to send lead-free replacements within six to eight weeks. 
 But this isn't really about replacing toy trains. It is about the realities of offshoring, and it doesn't yet have a tidy Thomas-style ending. 
 Over the last two decades or so, American companies have generally followed a two-pronged outsourcing strategy. First, the companies have tried to move as much of their manufacturing as possible to places where wages are just a fraction of what they are here. Second, the companies have distanced themselves from their overseas production. They usually don't own the factories and refuse to say much about them.
 The current issue of The Atlantic Monthly has a fascinating cover article by James Fallows taking readers on a tour of Shenzhen, a southeastern city of eight million people (stunningly, up from just 80,000 a generation ago) that isn't far from the factories that make the Thomas trains. Many of the world's best-known companies -- like a company that Mr. Fallows describes as a ''very famous'' American retailer -- get products from Shenzhen. But he didn't get permission to connect any of the individual factories in his article with a specific brand.
 ''In decades of reporting on military matters, I have rarely encountered people as concerned about keeping secrets as the buyers and suppliers who meet in Shenzhen and similar cities,'' he wrote. 
 This secrecy brings a number of advantages. It keeps competitors from finding out tricks of the trade. It keeps consumers from discovering that their $100 brand-name shirt comes from the same assembly line as a $40 generic version. And it prevents activists from criticizing a company for the working conditions in a factory where its products are made. The companies get the cost advantages of outsourcing without the publicity disadvantages.
 In the days since the Thomas recall was announced, the company that owns the Thomas brand, HIT Entertainment, has stuck to this script. HIT is an English company that holds the rights to a number of popular characters, including Barney and Bob the Builder, and then licenses the toy manufacturing to companies like RC2. 
 Except for a small link on the Thomas Web site to RC2's recall announcement, HIT has otherwise acted as if it has nothing to do with the situation. Its executives haven't even said that they regret having been promoting toys with lead paint in them. They haven't said anything publicly.
 When I suggested to the company's public relations agency, Bender/Helper Impact, that this might not be the smartest approach, the agency e-mailed me a two-sentence unsigned statement. It said that HIT appreciated the concerns of its customers and was working with RC2 on the recall, but that the recall was ''clearly RC2's responsibility.''
 In effect, HIT has outsourced Thomas's image, one of its most valuable assets, to RC2. And RC2 has offered a case study of how not to deal with a crisis, which is all the more amazing when you consider that the company also makes toys for giants like Disney, Nickelodeon and Sesame Street. 
 When it first announced the recall, RC2 said that its customers would have to cover shipping costs to mail back the trains. It reversed that decision after parents reacted angrily, but it is still going to wait about two months to send the postage refunds. Why? ''Because finance is in another building,'' as one customer service employee on RC2's toll-free hotline told me. 
 Most important of all, the company hasn't yet explained how the lead got into the trains or what it's doing to avoid a repeat. Like their counterparts at HIT, the RC2 executives have stayed silent. 
 Battening down the hatches might very well work if this were a scandal about sweatshop conditions. Fairly or not, Americans have a limited attention span when it comes to human rights problems on the other side of the world. But the prospect of lead paint in your child's nervous system tends to focus the mind. 
 The fact that the executives at HIT and RC2 haven't grasped the difference shows how out of date the corporate script on outsourcing has become. In many businesses, outsourcing has simply grown too big to stay behind the curtain. What happens in Chinese factories determines how good -- how reliable and how safe -- many products are. So there is no way for executives to distance themselves from China without also distancing themselves from their own product.
 The government clearly needs to play a role here by inspecting more of the items coming into this country. Perversely, the Consumer Product Safety Commission has fewer employees than it did 20 years ago when there were far fewer imports. 
 But there is also reason to hope that basic competition will take care of some of the safety problems now being exported from China. Adrian J. Slywotzky, the management writer and consultant, argues that smart companies are starting to realize that they are better off knowing what happens in their factories. Nike, for instance, began to get more involved with its overseas suppliers after it was criticized on human rights grounds, but as a result, the company has also figured out how to get products to market more quickly. ''There is a big upside to dealing with this problem,'' Mr. Slywotzky says.
 I don't know if I am quite as optimistic as he is. But it does seem likely that consumers will eventually punish a company that ducks responsibility for the safety of its products.
 There's another Thomas story, called ''Cranky Bugs,'' that comes to mind here. In it, a big crane named Cranky is mean to Thomas and his friend Percy, another little train car on the Island of Sodor. Eventually, though, Thomas and Percy manage to knock over Cranky. After that, he stops being such a bully -- because, as the story concludes, ''he knows they may bite back.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The RC2 lead paint recall notice for Thomas & Friends toy trains. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (78%); OUTSOURCING (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); RETAILERS (67%); LEAD PAINT (66%); OFFSHORING (64%)

COMPANY: RC2 CORP (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (91%); NAICS423910 SPORTING & RECREATIONAL GOODS & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGDONG, CHINA (87%); SOUTH CHINA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



383 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-12
 Truck Bomb in BaghdadHits Mosque, Killing 61
 A suicide bomber barreled a truck into a square in the heart of Baghdad, killing at least 61 people and wounding 130, the Interior Ministry said. The attack came as American forces began an assault on strongholds of Al Qaeda where, they say, many of the vehicle bombs are manufactured. A1 
 20 Dead in Pakistan Tribal Area 
 What appears to have been a missile attack killed more than 20 people in Pakistan close to the Afghan border, Pakistani security officials said. The attack, on what they called a training camp for foreign militants, came from across the Afghanistan border, according to the security officials. A8 
 Thai Rulers Order Premier Home
 Thailand's military government, citing what it described as evidence, ordered Thaksin Shinawatra, the man it had ousted from power, to return to the country by June 29 to face charges. Mr. Shinawatra is accused of secretly and illegally holding stock in a real estate company with his wife, according to Thai officials. A6 
 Israel Allows Aid into Gaza
 Israel allowed 12 trucks of food and medical supplies to enter the Gaza Strip, Israeli officials and international aid representatives said, in an effort to avert a humanitarian crisis. Israeli ambulances evacuated at least two wounded Palestinians from Gaza and took them to a hospital A10 
 Taliban Forced to Shift Tactics
 Taliban insurgents have shifted their tactics to rely more on terrorist attacks, in part out of frustration with their flagging insurgent campaign, said President Hamid Karzai and the commander of American military forces in the Middle East. A8
 NATIONAL A13-17
 Local Leaders in TexasVoice Concerns Over Fence
 Local leaders throughout South Texas have been voicing puzzlement and alarm at the implications of a border fence, which Congress has authorized the Department of Homeland Security to construct along 370 miles of the United States-Mexico border, including 153 miles in Texas, by December 2008. A17 
 9 Firefighters Die in Charleston
 A furniture warehouse fire in Charleston, S.C., was, outside the Sept. 11 attacks, the deadliest episode for firefighters in three decades, with nine killed. A13 
 Colleges Drop Out of Survey
 The presidents of dozens of liberal arts colleges have decided to stop participating in the annual college rankings by U.S. News and World Report magazine. A13 
 Immigration Report Is Released
 Hoping to influence Congressional debate, the White House issued a report saying, ''Immigration has a positive effect on the American economy as a whole and on the income of native-born American workers.'' A17 
 Inquiry on Signing Statements
 Lawmakers say they plan to dig deeper into the Bush administration's use of bill-signing statements as ways to circumvent Congressional intent. A16
 Stem Cell Alternative Is Pushed
 President Bush will issue an executive order aimed at encouraging scientific advances in regenerative medicine, say senior White House officials, who added that Mr. Bush would announce the initiative just as he vetoes a measure promoting embryonic stem cell research. A14 
 NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 Bloomberg Sheds TiesTo G.O.P., Fueling '08 Talk
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York announced during a campaign-style swing through California that he was dropping his Republican affiliation, a step that could clear the way for an independent bid for the presidency, even as he continues to insist that he has no plans to run. A1 
 The Speaker's Power
 Sheldon Silver, the longest-serving Democratic Assembly speaker in New York history and one of the three most powerful men in the State Capitol, is credited by fans with using that power to help his Lower East Side district. But critics say he is insular and too close to special interests. 
 More Sex Crimes Reported
 New York State is reporting a marked increase in what are called moral-fitness cases involving certified teachers and administrators having improper sexual relationships with their students, even though federal statistics show that reports of sex crimes aimed at young people have fallen nationwide. B1 
 BUSINESS DAY C1-10
 Detroit Softens on Mileage
 For a quarter-century, American automakers argued that legislation to increase fuel economy standards would rob them of profits and force them to lay off workers, but now Detroit is lobbying for a modest increase in mileage standards in the hopes of silencing calls for even tougher targets. A1 
 Business Digest C2 
 OBITUARIES B11
 Vilma Espin
 An idealistic socialite who, as Raul Castro's wife, became a prominent advocate of women's rights and a powerful member of the Cuban Communist Party, she was 77 B11
 EDITORIAL A18-19
 Editorials: China and the chest thumpers; well, we found 140,000; new rules for undercover cops; a deal worth cheering.
 Columns: Thomas L. Friedman and Maureen Dowd.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (75%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); AL-QAEDA (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (69%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); FIRES (61%); RANKINGS (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); HAMAD KARZAI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (85%) TEXAS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); THAILAND (90%); IRAQ (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



384 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: New Homes Construction Declined 2.1% in May, as Expected

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19 

 BODY:
Construction of new homes fell in May as the nation's home builders were battered by the crisis in subprime lending and rising mortgage rates.
 Housing, which is struggling through its biggest downturn in 16 years, is expected to continue to face troubles in the months ahead before starting to rebound in 2008. 
 The Commerce Department reported Tuesday that construction of new homes and apartments dropped by 2.1 percent last month, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.474 million units, 24.2 percent below the level of a year ago.
 The May decline was in line with expectations and reflected weakness in the South and West, which offset construction gains in the Northeast and Midwest.
 Permits, considered a good barometer of future activity, rose by 3 percent in May but that came after a huge 7.1 percent plunge in April. The strength last month came from a rebound in permits for apartment construction, which can be volatile. Applications for single-family homes fell by 1.8 percent last month, and have been down four of the last five months.
 ''The downward trend remains firmly in place and there is no prospect of any near-term relief, given the huge inventory overhang in the new home market,'' said Ian C. Shepherdson, chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics.
 The National Association of Home Builders reported that its survey of builder sentiment sank in June to the lowest level in 16 years, a reading of 28, down from 30 in May. It was the lowest showing since February 1991, a period that covered the last major housing recession.
 ''The tightening in lending standards is having quite an impact,'' said David F. Seiders, chief economist for the home builders. Mr. Seiders said that he looked for construction of new homes and apartments to decline by 22 percent this year after having fallen by 13 percent in 2006.
 By region, construction activity fell by 19.7 percent in the West and 1.6 percent in the South. Construction was up 15.7 percent in the Northeast and 15.5 percent in the Midwest.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Housing Construction" shows new private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual price from 2006 through May 2007 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (93%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); HOUSING STARTS (92%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BUILDING PERMITS (79%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); TRENDS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (87%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



385 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Black's Lawyers Hammer Former Partner's Testimony

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 19 

 BODY:
It was an enormous betrayal by his former associates -- and not any act of criminal fraud -- that led Conrad M. Black to the Chicago courtroom where, if convicted, he could face the rest of his days in prison, lawyers for the media baron said in their closing arguments. 
 In declaring Mr. Black's innocence, his lawyers Edward M. Genson and, from Canada, Edward Greenspan, said that the 14-week trial had failed to produce any documents or other evidence that supported the allegation that Mr. Black had been behind a scheme to defraud the company of more than $60 million through phony payments and abuse of perks he enjoyed as chief executive of Hollinger International. 
 Rather, they argued, Mr. Black was pitted against F. David Radler, his business partner for more than 30 years, who pled guilty to a single fraud charge and the prospect of lenience in exchange for agreeing to testify.
 ''If I were able to, I would jump up and down and shout at the top of my lungs that he's not guilty,'' said Mr. Genson, who walks with the aid of a cane.
 Mr. Radler testified that Mr. Black had initiated the payments made to themselves, other executives and a Canadian holding company when Hollinger, a Chicago-based company, sold newspapers it owned in the United States and Canada from 1998 to 2001. 
 But under cross-examination by Mr. Greenspan as well as lawyers for the co-defendants John A. Boultbee, Mark S. Kipnis and Peter Y. Atkinson, Mr. Radler repeatedly admitted that he had lied before making his plea. However, he maintained he was being truthful on the stand. 
 ''Does it make sense to you that they would ask you to believe a liar?'' Mr. Greenspan said to the jury of prosecutors. ''The government doesn't have a smoking gun because there isn't one. In short, the government doesn't have much of a case.'' 
 Mr. Black, dressed in a beige summer suit, quietly scanned the jury for their reaction with his heavily lidded eyes when Mr. Greenspan addressed the court. What emerged from the closing arguments for Mr. Black and Mr. Greenspan is that his fate will hinge on how the jury weighs several issues, particularly whether the controversial payments at the heart of the case were aboveboard and what were the motivations of the people who turned against Mr. Black after the payments surfaced. 
 One critical question Mr. Greenspan said the jury would have to consider is why Mr. Radler pleaded guilty if, as Mr. Black has contended, no crime had been committed. Mr. Greenspan said that Mr. Radler's plea deal includes a provision that if the judge does not approve a reduced sentence (which could be as little as six months), Mr. Radler retains the right to vacate his guilty plea and demand a trial instead.
 Later, Mr. Genson underscored the fact that Mr. Radler personally negotiated the sale of the United States newspapers at issue in the case and also was responsible for dealings with the audit committee. While he and Mr. Black were longtime partners, he noted that they were not close and Mr. Radler's street scrappiness was a stark contrast to Mr. Black's avocations as an author and thinker. 
 ''Could you imagine them together? It's like a schizophrenic,'' Mr. Genson said. ''They were not pals.'' 
 The jury will also have to decide how to weigh the testimony of three Hollinger audit committee members -- James R. Thompson, a former Illinois governor; economist Marie-Josee Kravis; and Richard Burt, a former U.S. ambassador -- during the time the alleged frauds were committed. 
 Mr. Greenspan said there was no evidence that his client ever instructed Mr. Radler or anyone else to conceal information from the audit committee about the so-called noncompetition payments made to Mr. Black, Mr. Radler, the other defendants and a Canadian holding company as a result of the asset sales. But when confronted with the prospect of regulatory and criminal investigations that could taint their reputations, Mr. Greenspan said, they turned their backs on Mr. Black. 
 ''I submit that they approved them because there was nothing wrong with them,'' he said of the payments. ''They did not just fall of a turnip truck yesterday -- and neither did you,'' he told the jury. 
 In one case, Mr. Black and the others received money for agreeing not to compete with a subsidiary of Hollinger called the American Publishing Company. Mr. Genson said that the $5 million that was paid through that agreement was part of a management fee that was owed and was set up to avoid paying Canadian taxes. ''The expert says that in Canada it's entirely appropriate,'' Mr. Genson said. 
 Mr. Genson said that many mistakes were made by Mr. Black along the way but that was not evidence of criminal intent beyond a reasonable doubt, which was necessary to convict him. And both he and Mr. Greenspan asked the jury to disregard the prosecution's attempt to portray the support of his lavish lifestyle as motivation for crime. 
 ''The government believes it can divert you from the facts of the case with towel racks and white elephants,'' Mr. Greenspan said, referring to just two of many luxury items the court heard Mr. Black had purchased to decorate the Park Avenue apartment in which he lived. 
 Mr. Genson is expected to finish the closing argument Wednesday morning. The other defendants will follow, and the case is jury is expected to begin deliberating by early next week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAWYERS (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); SENTENCING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



386 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Travel Desk; FRUGAL TRAVELER AMERICAN ROAD TRIP; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: Into Middle America but Staying on the Fringe

BYLINE: By MATT GROSS

 BODY:
DRIVING the back roads, you sometimes cross state borders unknowingly. Without the enormous ''Welcome to ...!'' signs you see on the Interstates, all you have to identify your new surroundings are subtle clues in the landscape -- knobbier pine trees, say, or highways named for local heroes.
 Wisconsin, however, announced itself with no such subtlety. After a weekend in Chicago, I'd driven west across Illinois, finally turning north amid the big estates near Forreston. Once I was over the state line, hills swelled up from the prairie, the sweet smell of manure wafted from dairy farms, and advertisements urged me to indulge in Cheddar cheese and frozen custard, bratwurst and ButterBurgers.
 By the time I drove through New Glarus -- a surreal town modeled on a Swiss village complete with chalet-style buildings and street signs in German -- I knew I hadn't simply entered a new state, but a new state of mind. 
 As culturally distinct as Wisconsin is, I was heading for a place that sat at yet another remove from mainstream America: Dreamtime Village, an intentional community of artists situated in the driftless hills of southwest Wisconsin (so called because they escaped the rough, cold touch of ice age glaciers).
 Once known as communes, until the word became overly associated with hippies and other cultural relics of the 1960s and '70s, intentional communities have a long history in this country, going back to the Shakers and even, I suppose, the Pilgrims. I'd long wanted to visit one, to see how utopian ideals were surviving in the more cynical America of today, and so I logged on to www.ic.org and searched for intentional communities in Wisconsin and Iowa. At first, I found what I had expected: devout Christians, pagan farmers and a polyamorous ''family'' (my wife, Jean, vetoed that one). Almost all, however, wanted serious members, not casual visitors like me.
 But for $8 a day and the understanding that I would put my meager skills to work in the community, Dreamtime Village (10375 County Highway A, West Lima; 608-625-4619; www.dreamtimevillage.org) was willing to have me. I didn't know what I would find there: men wearing burlap sacks? an all-groundnut menu? But last Wednesday evening, after following ever-smaller county roads as they arced up, down and around the hills, the Volvo climbed one final ridgetop and arrived in the middle of nowhere -- the tiny village of West Lima (population 65, or so).
 A century ago, West Lima was thriving. But as the economy changed, its citizens relocated, and by 1990 the public school and the post office lay empty, and the gas station and hat shop were fading memories. Then mIEKAL aND and Elizabeth Was -- artists, as you can tell by the wacky names -- showed up from Madison and founded a ''hypermedia permaculture eco-village,'' in other words, a small, sustainable farm where they and other like-minded individuals could create art and music. On 80-odd acres donated by an eccentric benefactor, Dreamtime Village grew to 25 members and became a fixture on the anarchist circuit, attracting visitors like the doctor-clown Patch Adams and the writer Daniel Pinchbeck.
 When I got there, mIEKAL was standing in West Lima's main intersection, and the sun was warming the town's sole remaining business, a Pepsi machine (50 cents a can). Bright-eyed and sporting a bushy mustache, he greeted me, expressing surprise that I'd actually come. A lot of people, he said, get cold feet, apparently put off by the idea of an intentional community.
 But from what I could see, Dreamtime's residents were pretty normal: mIEKAL's 19-year-old son, Zon, had just graduated from the Waldorf School in Viroqua, a couple of towns west; Camille, whom mIEKAL had married after he and Elizabeth divorced, was a cheerful, inquisitive filmmaker who had moved there from Romania only a few years earlier (Elizabeth, who had renamed herself Lyx Ish, died in 2004); and Ken, a handyman who'd been in West Lima longer than anyone, was quieter than the others but so what. 
 At first, I couldn't quite see how they constituted a community. Camille and mIEKAL lived in the P.O., the town's former post office, while Zon, Ken and I had bedrooms in the rickety wood-frame hotel (it had been the teachers' hotel back when the public school was open). Apparently, another person, Kirk, lived on a far-flung piece of property, but he and I never even met. 
 All seemed to be on their own trajectories. Zon slept till noon, and mIEKAL worked days as the Web master for the food distributor Organic Valley, based nearby in La Farge. Camille tended to her pet parrots and film projects. Ken was often parked in front of his computer (we had dial-up Internet at the hotel, wireless DSL at the P.O.). No one seemed to share meals. It hardly felt communal.
 Nor was the community particularly isolated. To the west is a big park, the Kickapoo Valley Reserve, and to the south is Taliesin, Frank Lloyd Wright's home and school (www.taliesinpreservation.org). Between West Lima and these obvious tourist destinations were dozens of the swooping, swerving roads that I longed to cruise. (''Nothing picks you up in its arms and so gently, almost lovingly, cradles you as do these southwestern Wisconsin hills,'' Wright had written.) 
 The Volvo, however, had been leaking coolant badly, and I was afraid to take it out for long. At a reader's suggestion, I'd mentioned the issue on www.brickboard.com, but still didn't know where to take the car for service.
 Instead, I quashed my restlessness and tried to adapt to Dreamtime's rhythms. The heat meant no gardening until late afternoon, so I spent the day reading a Chinese mystery novel, picnicking among the 19th-century tombstones of the West Lima cemetery -- I'd spent almost $20 on rye bread, aged Cheddar and weiss beer in New Glarus -- and chatting with whoever happened to pass by. Camille showed me the visual poetry zine she and mIEKAL had just published, I shared my beers with the quiet Ken, and Zon told me about a run-in with neighbor kids when he was 9.
 '' 'Hey,' he said they'd asked him, not realizing he was a Dreamtimer, 'so have you met the Satan-worshipers who live over there? They sacrifice virgin animals to Satan!' '' 
 '' 'Oh, really,' Zon said he'd responded with a smile, 'how does that work?' ''
 And around 7 o'clock, we would all migrate toward the gardens. I'd rake grass clipping to use as mulch or spray garlic water on eggplant leaves to keep bugs away, and mIEKAL would tend baby plants in the greenhouse. Margarita, the pet goose, would nip at Camille's leg, and the whine of the lathe would echo from Ken's woodshop. We were each in our own orbit -- I was still preparing my own dinner, penne in a tomato sauce made with ingredients from the garden -- but I was starting to sense the gravitational forces that drew us individuals together.
 On Friday morning, mIEKAL took me to Organic Valley (www.organicvalley.coop) for a tour of the offices. The building was impressively green (for insulation, it used old jeans), but more astounding was the size of the operation: more than 300 employees and a network of organic growers stretching from southwestern Wisconsin to Maine, Florida and California. Suddenly, mIEKAL's devotion to permaculture and organic living didn't seem so oddball, but more like the crest of a rising wave. 
 After the tour, we ate lunch in the cafeteria (organic meals for $5 a pound) with Daisy, a young woman who'd once hitchhiked across the country. As we chatted about travel, I mentioned my car troubles, and she asked, ''Why don't you take it to Paul, the guy who fixes Volvos?''
 Why not indeed? With mIEKAL kindly escorting me, I took the car to Paul Schlicht of Schlicht Automotive (741 South Main Street, Viroqua; 608-637-6766), who quickly diagnosed the problem. The heater core hoses had ruptured from rubbing the dipstick. Because he knew I was in a hurry, Paul agreed to fix it by Saturday morning.
 As Paul tinkered, his friends sat around drinking beer while heavy metal played on the radio. ''This is your truest Wisconsin experience,'' mIEKAL said, ''hanging out in an auto garage in the middle of nowhere.''
 Back in West Lima, mIEKAL, Camille and I spent the afternoon drinking homemade plum wine and talking about an odd cemetery in Romania, Zon's future and how the once-reclusive Ken had slowly opened up. Occasionally, a horse and buggy would clip-clop down the road, a reminder that Amish farmers, too, had found the driftless hills a perfect fit for their own intentional communities. Then, at last, we ate dinner together -- a weirdly good stir-fry of organic hot dogs and mushrooms over saffron rice, with a fresh spinach salad from the garden -- and I returned to my breezy corner bedroom.
 The next morning, I knew, I would be leaving West Lima to visit Taliesin, itself an experiment in living closer to nature, then drive west to Decorah, the reader-recommended heart of Norwegian-American Iowa. And for a moment, I felt terrible. In these few days, I'd just begun to find my place in Dreamtime Village, and now I was abandoning it. But community, I'd learned, exists independent of geography, and the bonds that linked me to these not-so-isolated dreamers would stretch across the hills of Wisconsin and beyond. Margarita the goose clucked out in the yard; my cellphone, with no signal, lay dormant on the nightstand; and I fell soundly asleep.
 Next stop: South Dakota and Nebraska.
 Share Your Suggestions Read Comments

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (77%); COUNTIES (77%); DAIRY FARMING (75%); FROZEN DESSERTS (75%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); RELIGION (69%); CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007



387 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: China and the Chest Thumpers

 BODY:
The latest blame China bill, unveiled last week in the Senate, is not as bad as earlier proposals. Gone are the ham-fisted tariffs that lawmakers once threatened to impose if China did not raise the value of its currency, the yuan. In their place is a more gradual process for inflicting economic and political pain unless Beijing moves faster to lift the yuan. 
 But the new approach, while tamer, is still a dangerous game. 
 The senators behind the bill -- Democrats Max Baucus and Charles Schumer and Republicans Charles Grassley and Lindsey Graham -- bristle at being labeled protectionists, in part because they generally agree that free trade is superior to trade constraints. But they also clearly believe in threatening protectionism to get their way. 
 Threats can backfire. They also obscure workable solutions to today's global imbalances. 
 Even if China were to give in, there is no guarantee that a stronger yuan would be a big plus for the United States' economy. Theoretically, it would make American exports more competitive. But it could also ignite inflation in the United States, as consumer prices on imported goods rise. With interest rates up sharply in the past month, inflation is the last thing lawmakers should be toying with now. 
 There's also no telling how China would react to mounting protectionism. Weak Asian demand at a recent auction of Treasury debt is one of the reasons behind the latest increase in American interest rates. Rates could rise even more if China retaliated against pressure from the United States by further curtailing its demand for dollar-based assets. 
 American policy makers are betting that China won't shun the dollar because doing so would induce losses in its vast dollar-denominated reserves. But when protectionist skirmishing starts, economic logic often breaks down. That's why it's better not to make threats in the first place. 
 It would be better if Congress focused on the problems from globalization that it could actually solve rather than blaming China for America's economic ills. The problem of American business competitiveness -- and Americans' economic anxiety -- would be best addressed by health care reform. The problem of growing income inequality could be ameliorated with a more progressive tax code. 
 It would also be more constructive if the United States took responsibility for its part in international imbalances. An undervalued yuan is only one aspect, allowing China to sell its goods cheaply and amass huge savings in the process. Another is the United States' federal budget deficits -- which result in large part from serial tax cuts -- requiring America to borrow from China and other foreign lenders.
 To help restore balance, China should change its currency practices and the United States should change its tax policy. Talks between the two nations need to acknowledge those twin imperatives. That would be a lot wiser than legislation that is based on the false notion of America as an innocent victim, unable to shoulder responsibility for its own problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); BUDGETS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); AUCTIONS (71%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); FOREIGN LENDING (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (73%); CHARLES SCHUMER (73%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



388 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Panel Supports Tax Breaks For Coal and Non-Oil Fuel

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19 

 BODY:
The Senate Finance Committee approved $28 billion in tax breaks on Tuesday to underwrite renewable fuels and ''clean coal'' technology, all at the expense of the oil industry.
 The coal industry would reap substantial benefits from the committee package, which is to be attached to a broader energy bill being debated on the Senate floor.
 But the industry suffered an unexpected defeat when the full Senate rejected two measures in the overall energy bill aimed at vastly expanding the production of diesel fuel made from coal. 
 Senate leaders plan to attach the tax package to a broader energy bill, which they hope the full Senate will approve by the end of this week. But the mixed signals made it hard to say what shape the package will take in the end.
 In a separate vote that could lead to a veto fight with President Bush, the Senate voted 70 to 23 to add a provision that would allow the United States to sue oil-producing nations for price fixing and other violations of antitrust law.
 The White House warned last week that the provision, nicknamed the NOPEC clause, would damage American business interests abroad by inviting retaliatory action by other governments. It said Mr. Bush's advisers would urge him to veto any bill with such a provision.
 Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico and chairman of the Senate Energy Committee, also opposed the NOPEC provision as a ''feel good'' vote that would ''undoubtedly be popular but would also be unwise.''
 The Senate floor votes on coal cheered environmental groups, which have argued that production of heat-trapping gases linked to global warming would be at least as great from coal-based liquids as from gasoline.
 The tax package would provide $10 billion in additional breaks for companies that produce electricity from renewable energy sources like wind and solar power and methane from landfills. 
 It would also underwrite tax-free bonds for plants that produce electricity with renewable fuels, offer new incentives for transmission lines for wind and solar power and extend tax breaks for ethanol and other gasoline substitutes. 
 Oil companies immediately attacked the measure as short-sighted, saying that reducing tax benefits for oil producers and refiners would reduce investment in domestic production. But oil industry lobbyists have stopped short of engaging in a full campaign to kill the legislation.
 ''While promoting alternative energy sources is a worthy goal, doing so by imposing new taxes on the U.S. oil and natural gas industry would actually work against ensuring reliable and stable energy supplies for American consumers,'' the American Petroleum Institute said after the vote.
 Democrats from coal states had proposed offering up to $10 billion in loans for companies that build coal-to-liquid-fuel plants, provided the companies captured and stored at least 75 percent of the carbon dioxide produced in making the fuel.
 Republicans had pushed a much stronger bill that would have required fuel producers to generate six billion gallons a year of coal-based fuels by 2022.
 Democrats voted almost uniformly against the Republican bill and it was defeated by a vote of 55 to 39. 
 But by an even bigger bipartisan majority, 61 to 33, the Senate then rejected the Democratic bill on coal. The opposition to that bill came almost equally from Republicans who were peeved at having their own bill rejected and from Democrats who opposed subsidies for coal-based fuels because of the possible impacts on global warming.
 As Senate Democrats rush to complete an energy bill before the end of this week, lawmakers who place top priority on promoting renewable fuels had been trying to put together compromises with coal-state lawmakers to prevent the broader bill from being blocked by filibuster.
 Senator Bingaman was blocked by the threat of a filibuster last week from holding a vote on a provision that would have required electric utilities to generate 15 percent of their power from renewable fuels by 2020.
 Democratic leaders are also struggling to preserve a provision that would increase average fuel economy standards in cars and trucks. Automobile manufacturers, saying that the proposed energy bill would cost them billions of dollars and could jeopardize the ability of some companies to survive, are fighting hard for a much weaker measure.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Jay Rockefeller of West Virginia, left
Max Baucus of Montana, right
 and John Kerry of Massachusetts during the Finance Committee's energy discussion yesterday. (Photograph by Alex Wong/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); VETO (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); BIOFUELS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); COAL INDUSTRY (78%); METHANE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (74%); BONDS (73%); ETHANOL (73%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); CARTELS (72%); PRICE FIXING (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); LANDFILLS (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%); JEFF BINGAMAN (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



389 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Politics Forcing Detroit to Back New Fuel Rules

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON, June 19 -- For a quarter-century, American automakers and their allies argued that any legislation to increase fuel economy standards would rob them of profits, force them to lay off workers and deprive consumers of the vehicles they wanted to buy.
 Even as recently as last weekend, a lobbying group financed by auto companies was still running radio ads in 11 states, raising the prospect that soccer moms might lose the opportunity to buy big sport utility vehicles if they did not urge Congress to reject legislation calling for higher mileage.
 ''Why can't they let me make the choice?'' one of the ads said. ''I'm all for better fuel economy, but for me safety is my top concern.''
 But this week, with a vote possible in the Senate on an energy plan, Detroit blinked, and the car companies retreated from their longstanding argument. They are now lobbying for a modest increase in mileage standards, a position already adopted by Toyota, in the hopes of silencing calls for even tougher targets. 
 Auto executives say they changed strategy partly because longtime backers in Washington, who helped them defeat previous pushes to raise fuel economy standards, made it clear that the political climate had changed. If they did not back a proposal they could live with, lawmakers told the automakers, they might face even more stringent regulations. 
 Consumers played a role, too, since they are no longer clamoring for those S.U.V.'s and trucks that Detroit had suggested they could not give up.
 Environmentalists also found new support from surprising quarters, including a coalition of top corporate and former military leaders called SAFE, for Securing America's Future Energy. 
 The group, led by Frederick Smith, the chief of FedEx, and Gen. P. X. Kelley, a former Marine Corps commandant, argues that higher fuel economy is among the steps needed to reduce the nation's dependence on foreign oil. 
 ''The world now has shifted dramatically from where we thought we could take care of our own issues to having to worry about all kinds of things,'' said Gen. Charles E. Wald, a member of the group's board and former deputy commander of the United States European Command. 
 With gasoline above $3 a gallon in much of the country, presidential candidates from both parties are also pushing for increases in fuel economy standards that could be even harder to meet than the plan the automakers are now backing. The Bush administration wants higher standards, too, under a plan Mr. Bush introduced during the State of the Union address in January.
 Some of Detroit's most loyal supporters, like Senator Carl Levin and Representative John D. Dingell, both Democrats from Michigan, have bluntly told the auto companies that there is little chance of escaping an increase -- and that it is better to propose one than to have one imposed on them. 
 Mr. Levin, joined by a number of other senators, proposed last week that automakers increase the fuel economy of their cars and trucks in the next decade, but with easier targets than the original bill, which may go before the Senate in the next few days.
 The fuel economy standard for cars, 27.5 miles a gallon, has not changed since 1983. Light trucks, including S.U.V.'s, pickups and minivans, must achieve a minimum average of 21.3 miles a gallon over each carmaker's entire fleet. 
 Under compromise legislation drafted by Mr. Levin, cars would have to achieve an average fuel economy of 36 miles a gallon by 2022, while trucks would have to reach 30 miles a gallon by 2025.
 The original bill would require cars and trucks to reach 35 miles a gallon by 2020.
 As recently as two years ago, auto companies turned back a Congressional effort to set fuel economy standards much higher, warning that such a move would wipe out jobs and profits, and limit their offerings of S.U.V.'s and pickups. 
 But the Detroit companies have lost billions of dollars and have cut tens of thousands of jobs anyway. And sales of smaller S.U.V.'s and cars have climbed.
 Mr. Levin has used Toyota's reputation for building fuel-efficient cars as a selling point for his proposal, pointing out that it is a member of the Alliance for Automobile Manufacturers, the industry group that has been most vocal against fuel economy increases. ''Toyota is known as a green car company,'' Mr. Levin said at a news conference last week. 
 But officials at Toyota, which edged past General Motors as the world's No. 1 automaker for the first time in the last quarter, were alarmed by the group's negative lobbying strategy, people familiar with their thinking said. It started running new ads that seek support for Mr. Levin's proposal. 
 Capitol Hill was crowded on Tuesday with dealers from General Motors, Ford Motor and DaimlerChrysler's Chrysler Group, along with Ford's president for the Americas, Mark Fields. 
 Mr. Fields visited six members of Congress, including Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana, to push for Mr. Levin's version of the legislation, saying Ford sought ''to advance aggressive -- yet economically feasible -- fuel economy increases'' as part of the energy bill, according to a Ford statement. Debate could begin on Wednesday.
 Environmentalists say the Levin proposal is so weak that it will do little good. The Sierra Club has referred to it as a ''poison pill.'' 
 Carmakers say the plan will probably cost the industry tens of billions of dollars in development costs for new vehicles and technology over the next decade. The United Automobile Workers union is pushing Congress for tax breaks and job protections while automakers retool their factories to produce higher-efficiency vehicles. 
 Martha Voss, a spokeswoman for Toyota, said Mr. Levin's proposal would still be challenging for the industry. ''But we think it's a more reasonable approach,'' she said.
 House and Senate Democrats from Michigan have been telling automobile executives for months that they would have to accept some increase in mileage requirements. 
 "My message to them was that they should not be saying no, but should be saying yes to what they could achieve,'' said Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan.
 Two weeks ago, Senator Byron Dorgan, a Democrat from North Dakota, told executives the discussion essentially was over. In what is viewed by the carmakers as a political tipping point, Mr. Dorgan declared at a hearing, ''You've lost on this issue.''
 The debate also went beyond the usual environmental groups that have fought for higher fuel standards for years. Members of the SAFE coalition, an offshoot of the bi-partisan Energy Security Leadership Council, realized they could use their corporate and military influence with members of Congress who might otherwise turn a deaf ear to environmentalists or individual companies. 
 ''We concluded that the overall dependence of the United States on oil was a great vulnerability, and by continuing it, that we were helping the people who opposed us,'' said Herbert D. Kelleher, Jr., executive chairman of Southwest Airlines.
 ''The place we could make the greatest advances in the shortest period of time was fuel economy.''
 Known for his political acumen, Mr. Kelleher expressed surprise that Detroit companies initially did not sense a shift in public and political opinion. But, he said, he believed that they got the message.
 ''I think they recognize, too, that there is a problem and something needs to be done about it,'' Mr. Kelleher said. ''The debate is over about what needs to be done. Now the issue is the legislation.''
 Graph: "Measuring Up on Fuel Efficiency" shows how many foreign-owned vehicle makers exceed the corporate average fuel economy standards for their fleets by a wider margin than domestic makers. (Source: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration) (pg. C4) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The pressure is building for better automobile fuel economy. Last March, President Bush plugged an electric cord into a hybrid on the White House lawn. Above, an advertisement from Auto Alliance, a coalition, promoted legislation to raise fuel economy standards. (Photographs b Larry Downing/Reuters) (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); POLITICS (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); ARMED FORCES (68%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (75%); JOHN DINGELL (55%); CARL LEVIN (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



390 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2889 words

HEADLINE: Assembly Leader Wields Power By Keeping Albany Guessing

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK. 
Matthew Sweeney contributed reporting.

 BODY:
What will Shelly do?
 The question echoed insistently through the corridors of New York politics in an episode that is still vividly recalled two years later: Would Sheldon Silver, speaker of the New York State Assembly, support Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's ambitious plan for a football stadium on the Far West Side of Manhattan?
 Mr. Silver objected, frowned and equivocated, even as Mr. Bloomberg wooed him for his pivotal vote. The courtship was not cheap: The city and the state agreed to a generous package of resources for Mr. Silver's district in Lower Manhattan, including a new school. Then the speaker killed the plan anyway.
 ''You think you have an agreement with him, and then Shelly puts out his hand and says, 'Wait a minute, one more thing,' '' the mayor once said, recalling the stadium episode. 
 Today Mr. Bloomberg sounds like a fan, and with reason: He is courting Mr. Silver again, seeking support for the mayor's latest big idea, to charge drivers for entering Manhattan below 86th Street on weekdays. ''Shelly could not be more open,'' Mr. Bloomberg said the other day. 
 But will Mr. Silver support that plan, known as congestion pricing? No one can say. Which is precisely the way Mr. Silver, a 63-year-old trial lawyer, likes it.
 A survivor of the old Democratic clubhouse with a lugubrious voice and a Sphinx-like manner, he is barely known to the general public. Yet he is the longest-serving Democratic speaker in New York history. And as one of those ''three men in a room,'' along with the governor and the Republican Senate leader, Joseph L. Bruno, he wields life-or-death power over almost every bill. Even popular New York City mayors must approach him on bended knee.
 Fans credit Mr. Silver with using that power to benefit his district and for holding the progressive line during the three terms of Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican -- increasing school budgets, pushing for what he considers fair taxation, financing universal prekindergarten, all while balancing the interests of his geographically, racially and ideologically diverse conference, the Democratic majority.
 ''There is this whole mythos about him and how he somehow is the dark Darth Vader figure of Albany, but I find him quite the opposite,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a nonprofit group representing the city's leading corporations. ''He has a diverse caucus, and he has to feel out and build consensus.''
 But his critics say the speaker is a throwback to the clubhouse era: secretive, insular and too close to the powerful interests that sustain his majority, mainly unions and trial lawyers. 
 To those critics, Mr. Silver's rejection of the West Side stadium was emblematic of his leadership style as a cautious defender of the status quo, more inclined to block other people's proposals than to enact his own, more interested in winning good deals than making good policy. 
 ''He is not a reformer, he is not there to make the world better, he is not there to make the world worse,'' said Henry J. Stern, the city's former parks commissioner. ''Shelly wants to be somebody.''
 Mr. Silver proudly acknowledges that he has stopped many legislative measures -- but only because they reflected the policies of a Republican governor he disliked. 
 ''For 12 years my job was to fight bad things from happening to good people,'' he said recently. 
 But now there is a Democratic governor in Albany, Eliot Spitzer, who has joined Mr. Bloomberg's push for congestion pricing. What will Shelly do? Mr. Silver, who has worked both with and against Mr. Spitzer, remains as opaque as ever.
 ''He is an enigma, the grandmaster of the chess game of Albany maneuvers,'' Mr. Spitzer said. ''I don't think anybody understands Shelly.'' 
 'Image Is Nonsense'
 The history and structure of New York State's government give Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno near-omnipotence. The speaker assigns the heads of committees, selects their staffs, fills committee vacancies, dispenses political favors.
 As a rule, bills do not get to the Assembly floor unless the speaker supports them, so almost all that come to a vote pass easily. And each year Mr. Silver, like Mr. Bruno, doles out about $85 million in projects known as member items, which help ensure the loyalty of his 108-member Democratic conference.
 There are 14 more Democrats there than when Mr. Silver's leadership began in 1994. The speaker has used the Assembly's political action committee for aggressive fund-raising, often from interest groups that do business with the Assembly -- and has disbursed millions to Democratic candidates. 
 That can breed useful loyalty. When Mr. Silver was threatened in 2000 by an attempted coup led by Democrats frustrated with his secrecy, he called in chits and the coup crashed, its leader gone from the Assembly and his fellow conspirators denied perks for long periods.
 Mr. Silver has since made himself more accessible and democratized some Assembly rules. But wholesale change? ''Come on!'' said one veteran Democratic assemblyman.
 Polite but impatient, the speaker demurs. ''We are one of the most progressive legislatures in the world,'' he said recently in one of several interviews for this article.
 A 5-foot-11 man with a still-boyish face, unruly hair and thickening midsection -- his sport now is golf rather than basketball -- Mr. Silver shows no concern for the public's perception of him. ''Image is nonsense,'' he said. ''You do your job.'' 
 He has been doing his job so long that he is steeped in the minutiae of government and has shown he knows how to use that knowledge.
 He blocked Staten Island's five-year quest for secession in 1994, insisting on a formal petition from the City Council; since the city wanted to keep Staten Island, that stopped secession. It was Mr. Silver, too, who rebuffed Rudolph W. Giuliani's effort to extend his mayoral term into 2002 after 9/11, refusing to allow an Assembly vote. And it was Mr. Silver who allowed Mayor Bloomberg to gain control of the city schools.
 Typically, Mr. Silver reflected popular opinion and his majority on those issues -- and he placated critics of the school control measure by making sure the law would expire and need reauthorization in 2009.
 The speaker's perspective? ''My job is to mold a consensus from across sections of the state, a diverse group, probably more diverse than any legislative body in the country, if not the world.''
 Mr. Silver's extraordinary power comes from his safely gerrymandered majority and his unchallengeable hold on his district. But it also comes from his members. 
 That reality helps explain an early dispute with the new governor over the selection of a new state comptroller to replace Alan G. Hevesi, who resigned amid scandal. At first, Mr. Silver endorsed Mr. Spitzer's plan for an outside panel to recommend candidates. But when no Assembly Democrat made the panel's list, Mr. Silver's conference was furious. To placate its members, he defied the governor and let the Assembly put one of his closest allies, Assemblyman Thomas P. DiNapoli, in the job. 
 In his best self-preservationist mode, the speaker regained Mr. Spitzer's good graces by supporting his budget and significant initiatives, including legislation on workers' compensation and the civil confinement of sexual offenders who have served prison sentences. As Mr. Spitzer's relationship with Mr. Bruno has soured, the speaker and the governor have found themselves wary allies -- for now, anyway.
 But there is always another negotiation, and nothing defines Mr. Silver's style better than his poker-faced ability to bargain, as the battle over the stadium demonstrated.
 Mr. Bloomberg saw the stadium as the linchpin for bringing the Olympics to New York and redeveloping the Far West Side. Mr. Silver saw the plan as competition for his downtown Manhattan district, which includes ground zero. Other Manhattan Democrats objected to the stadium, as did some moneyed and politically influential real estate developers, and many West Side residents.
 The speaker says that he repeatedly told the mayor, ''Give me a rationale for supporting it; everybody tells me I should oppose it.'' But the mayor was convinced the speaker was persuadable, and Mr. Silver used the mayor's perception to his advantage. Mr. Silver won a city-state package worth $800 million for Lower Manhattan, including the mayor's renewed support for a new public school in his district, on Beekman Street. Mayoral advisers say that the resources were unrelated to the stadium, and that downtown would have done even better if the speaker had sided with the mayor.
 But Mr. Silver's decision won plaudits from many quarters, including a new wave of younger, more affluent constituents who could pose a political risk to him as they supplant his older, Jewish base. 
 ''He was absolutely instrumental in making that school happen, '' said Julie Menin, chairwoman of Community Board 1 in Lower Manhattan. ''To have the speaker as your Assembly member is incredibly important for the district. He takes care of business.''
 The speaker appears to be positioning himself for a similar round of horse trading on congestion pricing. He raises concerns about it without opposing it. 
 ''He waits for things to break his way, not offering anything, just waiting,'' said Pete Grannis, the state environmental conservation commissioner and former assemblyman. ''He'd wait everyone out, and pretty soon, in exasperation, people throw in the towel and make a deal.'' 
 Rubble and Stalemate
 Mr. Silver's diverse district, which he has represented since 1977, stretches from the mostly Jewish Grand Street houses to Chinatown and parts of TriBeCa, and includes wealthy newcomers alongside poor and middle-class Chinese, Hispanic and Jewish residents.
 Once teeming with new immigrants, it is changing. Shops like Roasting Plant (''Just roasted coffee'') are supplanting the discount bra and girdle stores on Orchard Street; a sleek hotel dwarfs the time-worn Economy Candy on Rivington Street. 
 Yet one scene has not changed in more than 40 years: the Seward Park urban renewal site on the Lower East Side, which could, city officials estimate, house more than 3,000 people if developed. But plans have stalled repeatedly because of a clash that pits poor Latinos and advocates for low-income housing, who want many low-cost apartments, against middle-class Jews and others who fear a decline in property values. Mr. Silver is widely accused of purposeful punting. 
 ''It is not to his benefit to take a position either way,'' says Damaris Reyes, executive director of Good Old Lower East Side, a nonprofit organization. 
 Denying suspicions that he blocks renewal to preserve the voting power of his Jewish base, Mr. Silver notes that the neighborhood already has a large number of low-income apartments. He blames City Hall.
 ''Most of the mayors said we will leave it to the next mayor to make a Solomon-like decision,'' he said. 
 Knowing when to throw 'em -- and when to hold 'em -- has helped the speaker keep the peace in his district, where he has no significant rival. An attentive local office has helped, as has his ability to spread Albany's largess.
 In the last fiscal year he was the sole sponsor of $7.2 million in member items and directed about 70 percent of that to organizations and services in his district, many affiliated with his important Jewish and Chinese constituents. 
 Among the most favored beneficiaries in the last fiscal year was the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty and its affiliated organizations, which received nearly $1 million. The group's chief executive, William E. Rapfogel, is the husband of Mr. Silver's chief of staff, Judith Rapfogel. The council is widely acknowledged to provide useful services to all ethnic and racial groups throughout the city, and has long received generous public financing.
 Though government watchdog groups criticize member items as unregulated pork, Mr. Silver says they are a legitimate way to finance worthy causes that do not get into the state budget. ''Those who look at process are naive,'' he said of the system's critics.
 A Rapid Political Rise
 Mr. Silver is not naive. The son of immigrants from Russia, he has lived on the Lower East Side all his life. His father, Nathan Silver, established a successful hardware store there. Mr. Silver and his wife, Rosa, a public school teacher, live in a modest apartment building just blocks from his childhood home. On weekends, the couple often visit their home in the Catskills. They have four married children, and grandchildren ''in the double digits,'' said Mr. Silver, invoking a Jewish superstition about citing a precise figure.
 An Orthodox Jew, he is a graduate of religious schools and of Brooklyn Law School. He said he always wanted to be a lawyer and chose personal injury law because an older brother was an orthopedic surgeon. ''I understood the nature of injuries. Before I was in the Legislature, people would ask him, 'You know a good lawyer?' He'd say, 'Talk to my brother.' ''
 Interested originally in a judgeship, he joined a Democratic club, clerked for a fellow club member, an acting Supreme Court justice, ran unsuccessfully for the City Council in 1974 and two years later won the Assembly seat of a club member who was retiring.
 Once in Albany, he rose quickly and was the natural choice for speaker when Saul Weprin died in 1994. Mr. Silver speaks proudly of his record and impatiently rejects the constant criticisms of Albany as dysfunctional: ''People have to say things.'' 
 But the Legislature, where each chamber polices itself, has long been known for its loose ethics. Among state legislators charged with crimes both serious and petty since 2003, nine were from New York City, including five Assembly Democrats. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is now investigating Mr. Bruno's business dealings.
 Mr. Silver notes that the Assembly has strengthened its rules, and that some of the crimes lawmakers were accused of were unrelated to their legislative roles. Watchdog groups say the ethics and campaign finance rules are not strong enough, and point out that the Assembly's Ethics Committee, appointed by Mr. Silver, has publicly reprimanded only two legislators in 20 years. Disclosure rules are also lax: Lawmakers do not have to report their outside incomes.
 Mr. Silver has backed some reform measures, including campaign finance reforms (which Mr. Bruno opposes) and Mr. Spitzer's modest ethics package. But critics say all parties in Albany bear responsibility for not imposing tighter disclosure rules.
 ''They all deserve equal blame,'' said Rachel Leon, executive director of Common Cause New York. ''They passed an ethics package that didn't include more disclosure. On other measures, Silver has been there. But he hasn't gone as far as we would like.'' 
 Against Tort Law Change
 Perhaps most galling to his critics is Mr. Silver's law practice, which they say embodies the built-in conflicts of interest inherent in a part-time Legislature. They also accuse him of thwarting measures to restrict civil lawsuits out of self-interest.
 Mr. Silver notes that significant tort revision also failed to win approval from any of his predecessors. ''It is the sense of the membership,'' he said of the lawyer-laden Assembly, criticizing most tort reforms as ''designed to relieve corporations of responsibility for acts against innocent individuals.'' 
 Others see a more complicated picture. The Bloomberg administration was furious last year when the Assembly rejected a measure that would have reduced costly disability claims by municipal workers. They can now collect a city-funded disability pension and still sue for lost future earnings.
 Mr. Silver said last year's bill was unfair to unions. This year the Assembly passed a compromise and is currently negotiating with the Senate. 
 The speaker insists that his legislative views are unrelated to his law practice. ''I don't represent people who come before the attorney general in co-op and condo plans,'' he said. ''I don't represent insurance companies. I represent individual people, many in federal courts. My clients are plain, ordinary simple people.'' 
 Mr. Silver declined to reveal his clients or income from Weitz & Luxenberg, one of the largest personal-injury firms in the state. He brings in 10 to 20 clients a year who are assigned to other lawyers -- ''run-of-the-mill cases,'' said Arthur Luxenberg, a partner in the firm. 
 There is a widely held suspicion that the firm retains Mr. Silver as an insurance policy against any legislation that would limit civil lawsuits. ''He thinks independently on issues,'' Mr. Luxenberg said. ''Look -- he makes money, we make money, and you know what? It's not a bad thing having Shelly Silver in your office.'' 
 When not in Albany, Mr. Silver often works out of the firm's downtown headquarters. He has no other ambitions and no credible challenger, in Albany or on the Lower East Side. Like Stephen Sondheim's world-weary but defiant showgirl, who sings ''I'm still here,'' Shelly Silver is still there.
 How much longer does he want to do his job, anyway? 
 ''Oh, about another 18 years.'' 
 He was probably joking, but as always, it was hard to tell.

GRAPHIC: Photos: RISING STAR: Mr. Silver, right, a new assemblyman, with Stanley Fink, then the majority leader, in 1977. He has represented his Lower Manhattan district since then. He became speaker in 1994. (Photograph by Joe Traver for The New York Times)
 IN CONTROL: Sheldon Silver at a meeting between legislative leaders and Gov. Eliot Spitzer in the State Capitol. The longest-serving Democratic speaker in New York history, he wields life-or-death power over legislation as one of the ''three men in a room,'' with the governor and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican. Will Mr. Silver support congestion pricing for Manhattan? No one can say yet. (Photographs by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times) (pg B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); MAYORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (70%); BUDGETS (67%); LAWYERS (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



391 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: White House Report Lauds Immigrants' Positive Effects

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19 

 BODY:
Hoping to influence Congressional debate, the White House issued a report on Tuesday saying, ''Immigration has a positive effect on the American economy as a whole and on the income of native-born American workers.'' 
 But it acknowledged that some research had found ''small negative effects'' on the wages of the least-skilled American workers. 
 The report, prepared by the president's Council of Economic Advisers, says immigrants enhance the productivity of native-born workers and increase their earnings a significant amount, estimated at $37 billion a year.
 In an interview, Edward P. Lazear, a labor economist who is the council chairman, gave the example of a construction site with many immigrants working as roofers.
 ''They might drive down slightly the wages of roofers in the United States,'' Mr. Lazear said. ''But as a result of having this valuable supply of labor from abroad, other people on the construction project like carpenters and electricians are more productive. They have better people to work with, more people to work with. The cost of doing the job is lower, and some of that is passed on to consumers in the form of lower prices.''
 The study reinforces President Bush's campaign for a comprehensive immigration bill that calls for more border security, a guest worker program and a ''merit-based system'' of selecting immigrants that emphasizes education and job skills. The bill, pending in the Senate, would also offer legal status and work permits to most of the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States.
 Many Democrats say the bill could depress the wages of American workers. Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, said the guest worker program would ''put downward pressure'' on the wages in construction, manufacturing and other industries. 
 The White House is entering a debate that has been raging for years. 
 In one study, George J. Borjas, a professor of economics at Harvard, found that ''by increasing the supply of labor between 1980 and 2000 immigration reduced the average annual earnings of native-born men by an estimated $1,700, or about 4 percent.''
 ''Among natives without a high school education, who roughly correspond to the poorest tenth of the work force,'' Professor Borjas said, ''the estimated impact was even larger, reducing their wages by 7.4 percent.''
 ''Over time,'' Professor Borjas said in an interview, ''the economy adjusts to the presence of immigrants. But in the long run, after all the adjustments, the wages of low-skill workers still go down by 4 percent or 5 percent.''
 The White House report is more consistent with the findings of David Card, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, who said in an interview, ''The overall effect of immigration on the average wages of natives is slightly positive.''
 In their report, the White House economists said, ''The difficulties faced by high school dropouts are a serious policy concern.'' 
 But the economists added, ''Immigration is not a central cause of those difficulties, nor is reducing immigration a well-targeted way to help these low-wage natives.''
 On another volatile question, the White House said immigrants and their children tended to have ''a slightly positive fiscal impact'' because, in the long run, they pay more in taxes than they consume in benefits. 
 The White House study acknowledged that ''the positive fiscal impact tends to accrue at the federal level, while net costs tend to be concentrated at the state and local level,'' where education and health care are provided.
 Immigrants sometimes compete with native-born workers. But the White House said, ''Immigrants tend to complement -- not substitute for -- natives'' in the workplace.
 Over all, foreign-born workers make up 15.3 percent of the civilian labor force and account for half the growth in the labor force in the last 10 years. They differ in significant ways from native-born workers.
 ''In contrast to their 15 percent share in the total labor force,'' Mr. Lazear said, ''foreign-born workers accounted for much higher proportions of workers without high school degrees and of those with Ph.D. degrees, especially for those working in scientific occupations.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward P. Lazear, whose Council of Economic Advisers issued a report praising immigrants' role. (Photograph by Carol T. Powers/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MERIT PAY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); BORDER CONTROL (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%)

PERSON: ED LAZEAR (88%); BYRON DORGAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (64%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



392 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: 'Soul' of an Anthem: Jewish or Israeli?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''New Lyrics for Israel'' (Op-Ed, June 18): 
 Adam LeBor's proposal to enhance Israel's democratic credentials by erasing the ''Jewish soul'' from the national anthem is well intentioned but futile. A poll from 2000 found that only 15 percent of the state's Arabs identify themselves as Israelis or Arab-Israelis; most prefer the label Palestinians in Israel. 
 For these citizens, crooning about an ''Israeli soul'' would feel nearly as strange as singing the current lyric. And even if they viewed the change as a token of good will, non-Jewish Israelis whose ancestors lived in Palestine long before the Zionist movement began will still feel excluded by the song's reference to ''the hope of two thousand years'' to return to Zion.
 Healing the increasing economic, social and political divide between Israel's Jews and Arabs should begin with concrete steps toward equality in education, health care and job opportunities. Otherwise, even a completely rewritten anthem will continue to symbolize a divided state.
 Steven V. Mazie
 Brooklyn, June 18, 2007
 The writer is the author of ''Israel's Higher Law: Religion and Liberal Democracy in the Jewish State.''
 To the Editor:
 Since when must the symbols and customs of the majority culture of a country or people be removed to accommodate minorities? Non-Jewish citizens live and are welcome in Israel, but the Israeli flag and anthem reflect the history and aspirations of the people who founded it. 
 No one expects Britain to remove the Union Jack (including two crosses) from its flag just because many of its citizens are Muslims, Hindus and Jews. No one tells Scandinavian countries to remove the cross that adorns their flags. And no one has told Muslim majority states to remove the Islamic crescent from their flags.
 The suggestion that Israel change its anthem is equally inappropriate. 
 Morton A. Klein
 National President, Zionist Organization of America 
 New York, June 18, 2007
 To the Editor:
 I identify with Adam LeBor's proposal that Israel change the phrase ''nefesh Yehudi'' (Jewish soul) in its national anthem, ''Hatikvah,'' to ''nefesh Israeli'' (Israeli soul), but not just for the reason he states. 
 As a Jew living in the Diaspora, I believe that the ''soul'' of my Judaism is not Israel (a country I have visited, and whose existence and welfare are important to me), but rather an ethical, moral and spiritual commitment to living honorably and pursuing social justice and the betterment of the world in which I live. 
 It is this Jewish ''soul'' that informs my judgments of Israel's behavior in world affairs, and leads me sometimes to criticize it and sometimes to praise it. 
 Ben Bratman 
 Pittsburgh, June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); WRITERS (78%); ETHICS (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (70%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



393 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: After Meeting Israeli Leader, Bush Gives Support to Abbas

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON, June 19 -- President Bush threw his weight behind President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority on Tuesday, using an Oval Office meeting with Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel to declare Mr. Abbas ''the president of all the Palestinians'' and praise him as ''a reasonable voice among the extremists'' in the Middle East.
 The very public embrace of Mr. Abbas, a leader who has occasionally received cool treatment from the White House, underscored the intensity of the administration's effort to isolate Hamas and shore up the new Fatah-led emergency government Mr. Abbas has established on the West Bank. Mr. Bush's comments were his strongest declaration of support for Mr. Abbas to date. 
 ''He has spoken out for moderation,'' the president said, adding that he hoped Mr. Abbas and the Palestinian prime minister, Salam Fayyad, ''will be strengthened to the point where they can lead the Palestinians in a different direction, with different hope.''
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Olmert met privately for nearly an hour and a half, with senior national security aides joining them only at the very end of the session. Addressing reporters before their talk, Mr. Olmert echoed Mr. Bush's language; he called Mr. Abbas ''president of all the Palestinians'' and promised to cooperate with him ''to provide the Palestinians with a real, genuine chance for a state of their own.''
 With Hamas, which the White House regards as a terrorist group, now firmly in control of Gaza, the administration is pursuing what some have called a ''West Bank first'' strategy in which money, aid and international political recognition would be heaped on the West Bank, enabling Mr. Abbas to develop a showcase government there that would attract support from ordinary Palestinians. 
 But the strategy is risky, and Middle East experts say it would require the kind of deep involvement from Mr. Bush that, so far, he has not been willing to provide. Nearly five years after Mr. Bush first articulated his vision for a ''two-state solution'' -- Israelis and Palestinians living side by side in peace -- those experts question whether Mr. Bush, distracted by the war in Iraq, is willing to plunge in now.
 ''Governing is about choosing, and this administration has made other choices,'' said Aaron David Miller, a former Middle East negotiator for the Bush administration who is writing a book, ''The Much Too Promised Land,'' about the elusive search for Arab-Israeli peace. ''They are now faced with a real crisis, which understandably they would like to turn into an opportunity, but the embrace of Abbas as a focal point for the new administration push toward West Bank first, it seems to me, is a highly problematic strategy.''
 Mr. Miller and other experts, including Dennis Ross, who was the point man on the Middle East peace process during the Clinton and first Bush administrations, say that if the strategy is to work, Mr. Bush will have to place pressure on Mr. Abbas to root out corruption in Fatah. They say Mr. Bush must also press Mr. Olmert to liberalize living conditions for the Palestinians on the West Bank. 
 ''Throwing your weight behind Abu Mazen is good provided you know what you're getting into,'' Mr. Ross said, using the other name by which Mr. Abbas is known. He added: ''There has to be a kind of unrelenting follow-through. You can't just have these conversations one time and leave it to chance.''
 Mr. Bush received Mr. Abbas twice at the White House in 2005, the year Mr. Abbas was elected resident of the Palestinian Authority. On the second of those visits, in October of that year, the president praised Mr. Abbas as ''a man devoted to peace and to his people's aspirations for a state of their own.''
 But the administration has also expressed frustration with Mr. Abbas, particularly after Hamas won legislative elections and took control of the Palestinian parliament. At that time, 15 months ago, the administration imposed an economic and political embargo on the Palestinian Authority.
 Mr. Bush lifted the embargo on Monday after Mr. Abbas dissolved a unity government that was established earlier this year and set up the emergency government in the West Bank. Mr. Bush's move clears the way for tens of millions of dollars in aid to reach Palestinians, but critics of the administration said the effort is too little, too late. 
 In an interview on Tuesday with reporters and editors of The New York Times, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee who is running for the Democratic nomination for president, said the administration must now put ''a high-ranking administration official on the ground, every day,'' to negotiate changes that can help Fatah demonstrate progress. Of Mr. Bush, he said, ''He should have embraced Abbas two years ago.''
 The White House press secretary, Tony Snow, dismissed the comment as ''backseat driving.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel met with President Bush in the Oval Office yesterday to discuss, in part, the Hamas takeover of Gaza and how to support the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas. (Photograph by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HAMAS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AL FATAH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TERRORISM (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); IRAQ WAR (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (84%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); EHUD OLMERT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (96%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



394 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Head of Budget Office Quits; Successor Is Chosen

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19 

 BODY:
President Bush accepted the resignation of Rob Portman, director of the Office of Management and Budget, on Tuesday, replacing him with Jim Nussle, a former Iowa congressman with a record of battling the Democrats on behalf of administration budget and tax priorities. 
 Mr. Portman, a former Ohio representative, has headed the budget office for 14 months and will leave in August. Previously he was Mr. Bush's top trade envoy. He said he was returning to be with his family in Cincinnati after nearly 20 years in Congress and in the administration but added that he might consider running for office in Ohio. 
 The switch from one former congressman from the Midwest for another in the budget job is not expected to affect administration fiscal policy, but it could affect the tone of dealing with Democrats at a time when the administration has promised a hard line on spending.
 Mr. Bush praised Mr. Portman as pressing for keeping spending under control and reducing the deficit with the help of greater-than-anticipated tax revenues.
 ''He's put Democratic leaders in Congress on notice that I will veto bills with excessive levels of spending,'' the president said.
 Democrats noted, however, that Mr. Portman, at a time of contentious partisanship over the budget, had tried to maintain communication and cooperation with them to avoid unnecessary showdowns.
 Mr. Nussle, by contrast, has a reputation as a partisan who fought hard for Mr. Bush's tax cuts as chairman of the House Budget Committee. He joined with Speaker Newt Gingrich in the 1990s to demand cuts in spending and taxes and to portray Democrats as corrupt.
 ''I regret Budget Director Rob Portman is resigning,'' said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. ''He is a person of credibility and decency who commanded respect on both sides of the aisle.''
 Mr. Nussle was elected to the House in 1990 and decided against running for re-election in 2006, choosing instead to run for governor of Iowa, an election he lost.
 In leaving Mr. Bush's inner circle, Mr. Portman joins several other appointees who have recently left or announced their departure. They include Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director, J. D. Crouch, a deputy national security adviser, and Sara Taylor, the White House political director.
 The possibility of confrontations over budget issues arises from the fact that the Democrats are working on several spending bills that exceed the ceilings imposed by the Bush administration earlier this year.
 But many lawmakers say it is possible that the administration will look for accommodations rather than fights on some issues, like military spending and spending for veterans and domestic security. 
 Democratic leaders say that they do not plan any major efforts to raise taxes, and that any budget fights will focus on spending for priorities they think the public will find popular. Mr. Bush has not vetoed any budget bills since taking office in 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VETO (79%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ROB PORTMAN (90%); JIM NUSSLE (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); KENT CONRAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%) IOWA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007



395 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2007

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Mike Wallace: The Grid, Yellow Fever and Real Estate

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Mike Wallace, the historian and author of "Gotham," answers a reader's question on Manhattan Island's bucolic past and the idea to design the city on a grid. 

 BODY:
Here is the latest installment from Mike Wallace, the historian and author of "Gotham," who took questions from readers this week. He will post more answers on Friday, but he is not accepting any new questions.
fnewsom-lang: 
Dr. Wallace: Manhattan was indeed a ruggedly hilly island, full of ponds and marshes. As the population expanded northward after the Revolution, these were increasingly seen as obstacles to commerce and menaces to health. The city set about draining hundreds of acres of swampland below what's now Canal Street -- leveling small hills and tossing them into offending marshes. And in 1803 the city began filling in Collect Pond -- New York's first ecological disaster, having gone from skating pond to what one observer called "a shocking hole ... foul with excrement, frog-spawn and reptiles."
Spurred on by Yellow Fever epidemics the idea took hold that the process of northward expansion had best be done in a more orderly and far-seeing way. The state assembly charged three Commissioners - Gouverneur Morris, Simeon De Witt, and John Rutherford -- with laying out "streets, roads, and public squares" in such a manner "as to unite regularity and order with the Public convenience and benefit, and in particular to promote the health of the city" by allowing for the "free and abundant circulation of air." 
The trio hired John Randel Jr., to survey all 11,400 acres of Manhattan, and beginning in 1808, he and his assistants tramped about the thickly wooded island, looking at first to find streetpaths that were "least obstructed by rocks, precipices, steep grades, and other obstacles." But in 1810 the commissioners decided to lay down a ruthlessly regular grid that ignored such topographical difficulties, and in 1811 they unveiled their plan, engraved on an eight-foot-long-map. Twelve avenues, each 100 feet in width, would slice north from the edge of town, crossed, at right angles, every 200 feet, by 50- or 60- and occasionally 100-foot-wide streets. Manhattan up to 155th Street would be carved up into roughly 2,000 blocks, each further subdivided into standardized lots, thus facilitating (Randel noted) "buying, selling, and improving real estate."
There was nothing new about grids. Other North (and South) American towns and cities had used them, most notably rival Philadelphia, whose orderly streets, Washington Irving and his fellow Salmagundians had argued whimsically in 1807, no doubted accounted for the square, regular, straight-forward and uniform temperament of Philadelphians, who "never turn but in right angles..." Whereas the people of New York - "tossed about over hills and dales, through lanes and alleys, crooked streets -- continually mounting and descending, turning and twisting -- whisking off at tangents, and left-angle-triangles, just like their own queer, odd, topsyturvy rantipole city, are the most irregular, crazy-headed, quicksilver, eccentric, whim-whamsical set of mortals that ever were jumbled together in this uneven, villainous revolving globe. ..."
Now, "beauty, order, and convenience" would come to New York as well, the commissioners boasted, and Manhattan's hills and dales, swamps and springs, would not be allowed to stand in their way. Some, like Clement Clarke Moore (admittedly not a disinterested party, having extensive property he wanted left ungridded), objected to the underlying premise of the plan - "to reduce the surface of the earth as nearly as possible to dead level" -- and denounced the commissioners as men "who would have cut down the seven hills of Rome." 
The hills, most of them, are long gone, or remain as ghostly inclines. But many of the watercourses continue to burble along underground, and those who work beneath Manhattan's surface continue to consult Egbert Viele's Water Map, published in 1859, which charts their locations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (71%); CITIES (71%) Housing & Economy; Local History; Taking Questions

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012



396 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Oxfam Suggests Benefit in Africa if U.S. Cuts Cotton Subsidies

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
Eliminating billions of dollars in federal subsidies to American cotton growers each year would reduce American cotton production and exports, raise world prices by about 10 percent and modestly improve the incomes of millions of poor cotton farmers in Africa, according to a new study by Oxfam, the aid group. 
 Agricultural economists at the University of California, Davis, who conducted the study for Oxfam, found that a typical farm family of 10 in Chad, Benin, Burkina Faso or Mali -- Africa's major cotton producers -- that now earns $2,000 a year would have an extra $46 to $114 a year to spend if American subsidies were removed.
 ''Fifty to a hundred bucks is a lot of money to these people,'' said Daniel Sumner, chairman of the Department of Agricultural and Resource Economics at the university. ''It's not right to think that changing U.S. subsidies will turn very poor people into middle-class households by our standards. That's a generational process. But it's money in their pocket.''
 The study, to be released today, estimates that the African farmers would receive about half the total gain from higher prices, while the balance would go to those who transport, process and package the cotton, among others.
 Oxfam, which has long campaigned for reductions in rich country agricultural subsides as a means to fight rural poverty in the developing world, said the added income would help families feed and educate millions of children. It maintained that Congress, now debating the farm bill that will set the rules for farm subsidies for the next five years, should cut cotton subsidies.
 Dani Rodrik, an economist at Harvard who is skeptical of the importance of reduced agricultural subsidies, said he found Oxfam's new estimates credible, but said the gains forecast were relatively small. He said advocacy groups should be careful not to oversell them. Helping Africa's rural poor escape poverty will require a different set of economic strategies, he said. There is a need to foster a shift to the cultivation of higher-value crops and to develop industries, like garments and toys, that bring jobs.
 Cotton prices are so volatile from year to year, Mr. Rodrik said, the African farmers might perceive the higher prices from the elimination of American domestic subsidies as little more than a blip. ''I'm not sure the effect will be large enough for farmers to really notice,'' he said.
 But the authors of the report said that removing American subsidies would permanently shift the price of cotton upward, with prices subsequently fluctuating around a higher average. Mr. Sumner also said that in the West African cotton-growing countries, government-run or regulated companies were involved in procurement, marketing and exporting of cotton. Farm prices are generally set in advance of the marketing season, which means the farmers do not feel the full volatility of price, he said. 
 Oxfam has acknowledged that cotton farmers in West Africa are contending with many problems beyond American subsidies. Cotton prices have declined, production costs have risen and yields in Africa have stagnated.
 ''Subsidy reform alone will not resolve all the challenges facing the cotton sector,'' Oxfam said. ''But it could significantly ease the burden on poor cotton farmers struggling to support their families.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Farmers in Burkina Faso throwing cotton bolls during the harvest in January. A typical farm family of 10 there makes about $2,000 from its crop. (Photograph by Issouf Sanogo/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COTTON & COTTONSEED (92%); COTTON FARMING (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COTTON MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FAMILY (76%); AGRICULTURE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); CHILDREN (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); BURKINA FASO (93%); BENIN (92%); CHAD (92%); MALI (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2007



397 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Indian Tycoon, Apostle of 'Good Times,' Spreads His Wings in Aviation

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

 BODY:
Vijay Mallya, an Indian liquor and airline magnate who revels in the tycoon lifestyle, wants to bring his good times to the rest of the world. 
 Mr. Mallya, 51, built one of India's largest domestic airlines with aggressive marketing, pocketfuls of cash and a big deal. Now, he is taking his fleet overseas. He plans to bring Kingfisher Airlines, known in India for its saucy flight attendants, top-notch service and the slogan Fly the Good Times, to the United States and Europe as soon as next year. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Mallya added fuel to his overseas plans with a $7 billion order for 50 Airbus planes at the Paris air show. ''Our strategy at Kingfisher is to open new long-haul routes and expand existing ones,'' he said. 
 The deal includes five Airbus A340s, which are economical to fly only on long-haul trips. Before Wednesday, Mr. Mallya had five Airbus superjumbo A380s on order, which he plans to fly nonstop to the East Coast of the United States, and five A340s intended for nonstop flights to West Coast cities. 
 His successes in other businesses are legendary in India, but the foray into international air travel comes at a time when airlines with even deeper pockets, from places including Dubai and Singapore, are attracted by India's growing numbers of passengers. 
 And India's young aviation industry has so far been all boom and no bust, meaning that new carriers like Kingfisher have no experience handling an economic downturn. 
 Mr. Mallya took over a sprawling family-owned group when he was 27 and turned the businesses into one of India's most respected, best-known conglomerates, the UB Group, increasing revenue more than tenfold along the way. Taking Kingfisher Airlines international is the next logical step, he said. 
 ''Any serious airline has to look at a worldwide network,'' he said in a recent interview in Mumbai, formerly Bombay, as he smoked cigarillos and drank more than one large tumbler of Scotch over ice. ''Today, there is serious international growth in and out of India,'' he said. ''It is an opportunity one should not miss.'' 
 The number of domestic passengers in India increased nearly 40 percent over the last year. International passengers flying from Indian airports increased 25 percent. And only an estimated 3 percent of the nation's billion people flew last year, so there is plenty of room for growth. 
 The order Wednesday, and other outstanding orders, will bring Kingfisher Airlines' overall fleet to 176 aircraft by 2018, from 30 now. 
 Meanwhile, the airline, which started in 2005, has not yet made a profit. Mr. Mallya predicts that will come in the next fiscal year. 
 As a start-up, Mr. Mallya says, Kingfisher has some advantages that existing American and European carriers do not. 
 ''These airlines grew so large and so unwieldy over the years that they are difficult to manage,'' he said. ''We have built Kingfisher brick by brick, making sure along the way that we don't overstaff ourselves, that we use the right technology and that we plan everything to be neat and tight and efficient.'' 
 While he characterizes his business plan that way, Mr. Mallya personally is the sort of unfettered corporate czar that many American boardrooms have not seen in at least half a century. He surrounds himself with a close group of longtime advisers, wears copious diamonds, holds business meetings at his house until 5 in the morning, winks at female journalists and flaunts the ''good times'' corporate motif in most aspects of his life. 
 At home, a Mercedes, a Ferrari and a Bentley are parked in his driveway. His ornate living room is filled with silver gilded furniture and art objects like a marble statue of a nymph-like woman, as well as a Picasso sketch. His CD collection includes dance, lounge and party music. 
 A group of largely silent young women clad in white deliver drinks, answer phones and clean up ashtrays.
 In an India where a growing middle class is rushing to embrace ''Good Times,'' Mr. Mallya's image and lifestyle have become part and parcel of the company. The country's young population ''look on me as a kind of an icon,'' he said, adding, ''That works well for me, and it works well for the business too.''
 One thing that Mr. Mallya's carefully choreographed reputation may be hiding is that he cannot seem to stop working. ''I'm not a T.G.I.F. guy,'' he said. ''I get off a plane at 2 o'clock in the morning and I'm looking for my secretary because I want to know what's going on.''
 ''I work hard and I play hard, too,'' he quickly added. ''There is nothing wrong with that.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vijay Mallya, left, listening at the Paris air show to John Leahy, center, a top Airbus executive, and Praful Patel, India's civil aviation minister. (Photograph by Airbus, via Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); AIR SERVICE (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (77%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (74%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: KINGFISHER AIRLINES LTD (98%); AIRBUS SAS (57%)

TICKER: KFA (NSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (98%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (74%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2007



398 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: How the U.S. Has Kept the Productivity Playing Field Tilted to Its Advantage

BYLINE: By AUSTAN GOOLSBEE. 
Austan Goolsbee is a professor of economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business and a research fellow at the American Bar Foundation. E-mail: goolsbee@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Americans' anxiety level over competitiveness with other nations has grown in recent years. A large number of Americans appear to believe that the United States will not be able to succeed in an open world market, and they argue in favor of reducing our exposure to the outside. 
 Paradoxically, when many of the people in these same competitor nations look at our economy, they are rather anxious about us. 
 And the latest evidence coming out of the Center for Economic Performance at the London School of Economics suggests that they may be the ones with the right idea. 
 For all the collective hand-wringing, the United States is still home to the most productive workers of all the major economies -- more than Japan, more than China, more than Germany, Britain, France or most any other nation on earth. 
 Granted it started from the pole position, but the United States still kept the lead in what some economists have come to call the productivity miracle of the 1990s. 
 Normally, because it is easier to copy someone else's innovation than to generate new ideas, as countries get richer and more productive, their growth rates slow. Other countries may have much faster growth than the United States, but once their income gets close to ours, their growth slows substantially. This is the law of convergence. 
 The data has mostly backed up the notion of convergence among rich countries for decades. The United States miracle of the 1990s was that our productivity began growing faster than that of other countries, even though we were the richest to start with. 
 The popular explanation, of course, pointed to information technology and, specifically, to the fact that the price of semiconductors began falling at an even more rapid rate than they had been, starting in the 1990s. 
 Rather than a traditional drop of 20 percent a year, computer prices began falling more like 30 percent a year. This may sound subtle, but it couldn't be more dramatic. After 10 years of such declines, the 20 percent rate would have left computer prices almost four times higher than the 30 percent rate did. Low computer prices drove mass adoption of technology and, hence, the productivity miracle was born. Or so the story goes. 
 The only problem is, the explanation doesn't work, according to John Van Reenen at the London School of Economics. Professor Van Reenen is a leader of a new generation of economists studying the differences in economic performance across countries and businesses. 
 He said that the prices of information technology fell in Europe, too. And Europeans bought information technology. But they had no productivity miracle. 
 To explain the experience in the United States, one would have to believe that Americans have some better way of translating the new technology into productivity than other countries. And that is precisely what Professor Van Reenen's research suggests.
 His paper ''Americans Do I.T. Better: U.S. Multinationals and the Productivity Miracle,'' (with Nick Bloom of Stanford University and Raffaella Sadun of the London School of Economics) looked at the experience of companies in Britain that were taken over by multinational companies with headquarters in other countries. They wanted to know if there was any evidence that the American genius with information technology transfers to locations outside the United States. If American companies turn computers into productivity better than anyone else, can businesses in Britain do the same when they are taken over by Americans? 
 And in the huge service sectors -- financial services, retail trade, wholesale trade -- they found compelling evidence of exactly that. American takeovers caused a tremendous productivity advantage over a non-American alternative. 
 When Americans take over a business in Britain, the business becomes significantly better at translating technology spending into productivity than a comparable business taken over by someone else. It is as if the invisible hand of the American marketplace were somehow passing along a secret handshake to these firms.
 Companies like Wal-Mart seem to be more adept at translating technology into productivity than anyone else. The Asda supermarket chain in Britain, for example was a middling fourth in its home market before it was taken over by Wal-Mart in 1999. Asda proceeded to grow, sharply, and has taken the No. 2 spot. 
 Throughout the service-based economy, American companies have proven remarkably adept at adjusting to new conditions and incorporating technology. Since these industries represent a large majority of our economy, the news is rather good.
 The real question is whether this advantage will last. In an interview, Professor Van Reenen observed that there are two possible outcomes. One is that the last 10 years were an aberration, a one-time happenstance whereby the United States took advantage of the drop in computer prices to pull away from the competition. Under this theory, the United States will soon return to its normal long-term productivity growth rate as the rest of the pack catches up and copies what the American companies did -- the same old convergence story. 
 But there is a chance that the 1990s represent a fundamental shift in the global economy. Perhaps the greater amount of uncertainty and churn in the world economy in the 1990s is the new norm. Perhaps the 21st century will continually favor those who adjust best to changes. As Professor Van Reenen put it, ''If the world has become one in which everyone is trying to hit a moving target, it certainly helps to be the best at changing one's aim.''
 But that is, of course, the paradox of the American position. We hate experiencing major adjustments and industry transformations that force people to look for new jobs. That experience has made many skeptical about the future of the United States in the world economy. Yet the evidence seems to show that for all our dissatisfaction, we are the most flexible economy around and may be best poised to take advantage of the coming changes on a global scale precisely because we are so good at adjusting. 
 Perhaps the lesson from the research can be boiled down to something most Americans clearly understand: The world economy may be tough on your industry but look on the bright side: you could be French.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (86%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (77%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



399 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: Circuit City Posts Loss and Withdraws Guidance

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va., June 20 

 BODY:
The electronics retailer Circuit City reported a $54.6 million first-quarter loss on Wednesday and withdrew its financial guidance for fiscal 2008 as it cut jobs and revamped. 
 For the quarter that ended May 31, the company, the nation's No. 2 consumer-electronics chain, behind Best Buy, reported losses of 33 cents a share, contrasted with a profit of $6.4 million, or 4 cents a share, a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected a loss of 32 cents a share.
 Sales fell 4 percent, to $2.49 billion from $2.6 billion in the year-earlier period, slightly ahead of analysts' estimate of $2.44 billion. Sales at stores open at least a year, known as same-store sales, slipped 5.6 percent. In the year-earlier period, sales grew 17 percent and same-store sales rose nearly 15 percent.
 Circuit City said it withdrew its financial guidance because it expected continued volatility in an unfavorable economic environment.
 Circuit City announced in March that it planned to lay off about 3,400 retail employees and replace them with lower-paid workers and to farm out its information technology work to I.B.M. Last month, the company cut retail management jobs and eliminated about 200 corporate jobs.
 Best Buy reported an 18 percent decline in first-quarter profit this week and cut its 2008 earnings estimate. Circuit City and Best Buy have faced growing competition from Wal-Mart Stores and other retailers.
 Circuit City shares rose 3 cents, to close at $16.10, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); RETAIL SALES (91%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (91%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); OUTSOURCING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%)

COMPANY: CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (95%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (95%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (95%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (59%) VIRGINIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2007



400 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Kazakhstan Ballot Called 2 Years Early

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ALMATY, Kazakhstan, June 20 -- Kazakhstan's lower house of Parliament was dissolved Wednesday in preparation for early elections. 
 President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, who recently eliminated term limits on his office from the Constitution, called for new elections to take place in August instead of in 2009, as scheduled. 
 Because the election would bring the constitutional amendments into effect, the president's move was criticized by opposition politicians as a power grab. Moving up the election gives them too little time to organize a campaign, they said.
 Kazakhstan, a close ally of the United States, has a rapidly developing economy with huge reserves of oil and gas, but has a poor record in promoting democratic procedures. Mr. Nazarbayev has ruled the nation for 17 years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERM LIMITS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (88%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KAZAKHSTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2007

 
