

401 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Nicaragua Might Prefer Benign Neglect

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Testing Time for Mrs. Chamorro" (editorial, July 30) demands that Gen. Humberto Ortega, head of the Nicaraguan army, "will have to go." You also support Congressional cutoff of all funds, again, for this tiny country of three million people, mostly poor peasants and children. 
 The poor folks there wouldn't see the aid anyway. Some 70 percent of it returns to the United States for the balance of payments deficit. In the years I lived in Nicaragua (1989-91), I saw the country plunged deeper into unemployment and poverty as a result of United States Government pressure through the World Bank and International Monetary Fund.
You state that disaffected former combatants from both sides of the civil war attacked the town of Esteli, that 41 people were killed and the attack was carried out with the knowledge of the army, which allowed the combatants into the town and was slow to contain the fighting.
The facts as I know them are that 100 to 300 former contra and former Sandinista soldiers joined in capturing Esteli to demand that the Chamorro Government keep its promises to them when they disarmed at the end of the contra war, which the United States paid for and directed.
The combatants were willing to negotiate an end to the Esteli takeover, but the Government sent in at least 1,000 army troops, helicopters, tanks and rocket launchers. The 25-hour combat left 45 dead and 98 wounded.
Esteli residents are asking why so much force was needed to displace a group who "were asking only for justice, a little land and resources."
Your conjecture that the army, under General Ortega, is also guilty of terrorism would be funny if it were not so dangerous. Many of my friends and I wondered what pretext the rich and powerful nations would use for attacking the Sandinistas when they could no longer cry "Communist."
Maybe the best gift that we can give to the Nicaraguans is to let them alone.
 
SYLVIA METZLER
Co-chairwoman
Medicines for Nicaragua
Philadelphia, Aug. 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA NICARAGUA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (72%); FARM LABOR (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); TERRORISM (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: METZLER, SYLVIA

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



402 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: Long Island;
Recent Sales

 BODY:

Bayport $133,000
 240 Barrett Avenue
 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 20-year-old colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, finished basement; taxes $5,700.

Massapequa Park $469,000
 160 Harbour Lane
 6-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath, 22-year-old farm ranch; den, dining room, eat-in kitchen, c/a, 2-car garage; taxes $11,000.

Oakdale $185,000
 110 Cross Road
 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 7-year-old colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, 2-car garage; taxes $3,900.

Roslyn $360,000
 51 Green Drive
 5-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 32-year-old split level; dining room, den; taxes $7,600.

Sayville $130,000
 2 Manton Street
 4-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 50-year-old colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, basement, 1-car garage; taxes $4,600.

Seaford $165,000
 39-71 Steven Court
 4-bedroom, 2-bath, 24-year-old Cape Cod; dining room, eat-in kitchen, basement, new windows; taxes $4,600.
 
OTHER AREAS
 
Wilton, Conn. $370,000
 6 Old Kings Highway
 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 30-year-old colonial; Mexican tile floors, new porch, brook, 1.4 acres; taxes $4,220.

Scarsdale, N.Y. $156,000
 209 Garth Road
 2-bedroom, 2-bath, 67-year-old co-op; entry foyer, terrace, eat-in kitchen, dining room; maintenance $632.

Manalapan, N.J. $499,000
 9 Kent Place
 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 17-year-old colonial; pool, eat-in-kitchen, full basement; taxes $4,700.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FREEPORT (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); 

PERSON: THOMPSON, ARTHUR W (MAYOR); SHAMAN, DIANA

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



403 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: In California, Logging Dispute Hits Home for Some

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SANTA CRUZ, Calif., Aug. 11

 BODY:
As he worked in the dappled shade of his home office one day in June, Rich G. Kelso could hear the whine of chain saws and crunch of breaking wood from what he had been assured was tree trimming on his neighbor's property.
Then sunlight suddenly flooded his house, and Mr. Kelso said he got a sinking feeling. Looking out a 14-foot-wide picture window, he could see men cutting down the last row of trees next to his property, giving him a clear view of a stump-filled hillside that only hours earlier had been an impenetrable shroud of redwoods. 
 "I ran out yelling, 'What are you doing? This is logging, not tree trimming!' " recalled Mr. Kelso, a photographer and musician who bought his two-and-a-half-acre property here five years ago. "By that time, it was too late. They just took every tree out of there."
 
Door to Door Logging
 With the price of timber skyrocketing, property owners in this Northern California coastal region, where the redwoods thrive, are making lucrative deals with small timber harvesters who have gone door to door offering thousands of dollars to clear several acres, a service for which residents normally would have to pay. Neighbors like Mr. Kelso have been shocked to discover their wooded environs suddenly transformed into flat landscapes peppered with stumps.
In Santa Cruz County, a Silicon Valley bedroom community whose population has increased 22 percent, to 230,000, since 1980, the conflict over backyard logging is increasingly pitting newcomers against old-timers, between those who came to live cloistered in nature and those who resent being told what they can and cannot do with their property.
When Mr. Kelso called local officials, he learned that his neighbor was within his rights to chop down redwoods. Unlike large-scale harvesting, an independent logger cutting down trees for a homeowner does not face many hurdles, he discovered. No environmental or community review is required to cut as many as three acres of redwoods.
The price being paid for redwood these days might tempt an ardent conservationist. Four years ago, 1,000 board feet of redwood, roughly half the size of an average tree in Santa Cruz County, could bring $200 to $500. This year, it can bring up to $1,100.
 
Reasons for Rise in Prices
 One reason for the price explosion is that the Federal Government has closed hundreds of thousands of acres of public lands in the Pacific Northwest to logging to protect the spotted owl. In 1988, 1.96 billion board feet of timber was harvested in California, according to the United States Forest Service. For 1994, the agency projects that only a fourth of that amount will be harvested.
Another reason is that timber companies harvested their own lands so heavily in the 1980's that they instilled fear among owners of large private tracts of forest about opening their property to loggers.
Local governments, too, are taking advantage of the current high prices being paid for timber. In Mendocino County, where the unemployment rate is 12 percent, officials are considering harvesting 25 acres of redwoods and firs that could bring in $500,000.
"It would close some gaps," James C. Eddie, a county supervisor said of the windfall. After losing several million dollars in the latest state budget, the county laid off workers and sold its only golf course.
"When you cut from a county this size in times like this, "Mr. Eddie sai, "you get caught. There is an end of the number of people you can lay off."
In Santa Cruz County, where Mr. Kelso lives, almost all of the 150,000 acres of forest land are privately owned. Despite the county's reputation as a liberal stronghold and its tough rules on timber harvesting, small-time loggers have arrived from other parts of the state, setting up their businesses in motels.
Dave Hope, who oversees all timber harvesting in the area as Santa Cruz County's forester and watershed manager, said that there were some bad examples of residential logging, but that mostly the problem lay with the attitude of newcomers.
"People get almost a religious feeling about trees if they haven't grown up in a consumptive environment," Mr. Hope said. "They would rather have the wood come from a place they don't see, like the moon."
 
Reducing Fire Hazard
 Eight miles south of Mr. Kelso's home in unincorporated Aptos, a logger traveled up and down Fern Flat Road throughout the early spring, approaching about half of the 50 property owners. He offered to reduce their fire danger by removing unwanted trees and to pay them for the timber.
Elizabeth Herbert, who lives in an geodesic dome on 13 acres, said the offer seemed too good to be true. Expecting that her neighbors would go through a review process to discuss the logger's proposal, she held a neighborhood meeting in her home that was attended by about 15 people. But before anyone could act, she said, the chain saws began without announcement.
In some cases, Ms. Herbert said, acres of redwoods were being clear-cut, a practice that leaves no trees standing in an area and that is illegal in Santa Cruz County. But when she contacted local officials, she was told of a loophole that allowed homeowners to clear-cut land they wanted to convert to another use. No review process was necessary, she was told.
But her neighbor, Jerry W. Henry, a horticulturist, said he saw the harvesting of redwoods as beneficial, creating more open space and reducing fire hazard. Like many other old-timers in the area, he sees the dispute as an overreaction by newcomers.
"When San Francisco hillbillies buy private property on a road and try to force their wills, they're cutting their own throats," said Mr. Henry, whose 26 acres resemble a city park with lamp posts and lush gardens. He had intended to cut a redwood grove on his property this summer to reduce the fire hazard, he said, but his plans have been put on hold because of the controversy. County officials have asked him to wait while they review his plans.
Another property owner on Fern Flat Road, Nick Kusalich, had a redwood grove harvested in the spring so he could "plant it, make it beautiful and sell it," he said.
"Let's not kid ourselves; the price is right now," said Mr. Kusalich, a retired carpet store owner whose family has owned the property since 1928.
 
Emergency Rules Passed
 After a public outcry about piecemeal logging, a state regulatory board passed emergency rules last month requiring property owners in counties in the San Francisco Bay Area to wait 10 days after filing a permit before they start logging. The rules are intended to give officials time to see if there are going to be problems in logging a certain property.
Ken Delfino, deputy director of resources for the State Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, said the neighborhood conflicts, along with stories of below-market rates paid to inexperienced homeowners, had given forestry "a black eye.".
"In some neighborhoods, trees are the character, the reason why people live there," Mr. Delfino said. "When you cut trees from a residential area, they're not coming back."
Accepting that the landscape is probably permanently altered has been hard for Mr. Kelso, who said he regrets naively allowing his neighbor the use of his driveway to take out the trees. Since the logging, he said, he has missed the bobcats and coyotes he used to see in his yard, and he says he now has to wears sunglasses in his living room.
"My wife and I are crying every night," he said. "We can't believe we had a hand in this."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 16, 1993, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A photograph in some copies yesterday accompanying an article about the increasing popularity of logging on private property in Northern California was published in error. The photograph showed a sand castle building contest at Coney Island.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Homeowners in Santa Cruz County, Calif., are being offered high prices for the redwoods on their land. Elizabeth Herbert, above, a resident of the area, said some loggers had clear-cut land, which is permitted on less than three acres. She walked with husband, Herbert, on their property. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

Map of California, indicating Santa Cruz.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SANTA CRUZ COUNTY (CALIF); CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; REDWOOD TREES; LOGGING INDUSTRY LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



404 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living in: Mamaroneck

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

 BODY:
NOWHERE was there greater jubilation when Stars and Stripes '87 beat the Australians and brought home the America's Cup than in Mamaroneck. The sleek 12-meter craft had been built there at the Derecktor Shipyard by Portuguese, Chinese and American craftsmen who live in the village.
Boat-building and sailing have a long tradition there, and marinas and beach clubs line the shore of the second largest natural small-boat harbor on the East Coast -- sometimes hard to see through the forest of masts from 1,500 boats. 
 Harbor Island Park, along the water at the foot of Mamaroneck Avenue, is the 45-acre centerpiece and focus of village life. The former island started being changed into a peninsula early in the century with rock removed in building New York City's subway system. Today there are tennis courts and ballfields, a 700-foot public beach and several fishing floats. Along a border is the newly upgraded Westchester County Sewage Treatment Plant whose Art Deco tower serves as a modern lighthouse. Residents are proud of their local landmark and hope the upgraded plant will help reduce harbor pollution caused by runoff from the Mamaroneck River.
Pollution is decreasing, said Matthew Galligan, the Village Manager, but the community took the unusual step this year of installing a floating filter around the public beach, which has kept out flotsam and jetsam. The village also has a station where heads and bilges can be pumped out free.
Sgt. Andrew S. Landau of the village Police Department's Marine Division, who is in charge of patrolling the village's 9.5-mile coastline, is optimistic. "The Sound has really gotten cleaned up in the last two years," he said. "The lobster population is thriving and even the blue-claw crabs have returned. People are scooping them out in bushels."
Residents are following a tradition started by the Siwanoy Indians, who named the area where the Mamaroneck and Sheldrake Rivers converge on their way to the sea as "the place where the salt water meets the fresh."
Recognizing the value of this snug harbor with its two rivers, John Richbell, a Boston merchant and West Indies trader, bought it from the tribe in 1661 with shirts, wampum and gunpowder.
From the Revolution until the present day, the village has grown because of its harbor, attracting commerce with help from a former Indian trail that is now the busy four-lane Boston Post Road, the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad -- which arrived in 1848 -- and the New England Thruway.
Diversity increased as the railroad brought waves of European immigrants from New York City, including Germans, who started a rubber factory, and Italians, many of whom worked in the MacIntosh coat factory creating fashionable coats for New York stores.
By 1895, when the village was incorporated as part of two towns, Rye and Mamaroneck, 12 neighborhoods had taken shape; by 1950, most of the land had been developed and most industry had arrived. The village doesn't look much different from the way it did half a century ago -- economically and ethnically diverse, with both luxurious estates and overcrowded apartments.
"We're almost a mini-city," Mr. Galligan observed.
Gloria Poccia Pritts, the village historian, agreed. "You can find anything you want in Mamaroneck," she said, "any kind of house, any kind of people, any kind of food."
There are about 6,600 housing units, including 2,461 one-family homes and about 1,600 co-ops and condominiums. There are also 2,433 rental units. Many houses went up on the former estates of the wealthy Manhattan industrialists who built summer homes along the harbor. Among the most sumptuous is the onetime home of Henry Flagler, who co-founded Standard Oil with John D. Rockefeller.
In 1919, Flagler's 32-acre estate on Orienta Point, a peninsula west of the harbor, was acquired by D. W. Griffith, the film director, who ushered in a short but brilliant golden age for the village as a kind of East Coast Hollywood. A silent-screen-era movie studio attracted such early stars as Lillian and Dorothy Gish, who lived in a house that is still on the corner of Bleeker and Walton Avenues.
Today, Flagler Drive leads to a security gate beyond which lies Edgewater Point, with some of the village's most luxurious homes. A six-bedroom, four-bath modern ranch-style home on the drive recently put up for sale at $1.995 million included a heated pool, dock and mooring, said Marco DiBernardo, principal broker at Houghton and Banks.
The peninsula is the farthest extension of Orienta Point, the largest neighborhood in the village, with the most one-family homes and town houses and the most beach frontage. Several homes are on private peninsulas. Fairway Green, a complex of town houses bordering the Hampshire Golf Course, is tucked into the top portion of Orienta Point, where two-bedroom units with cathedral ceilings sell for $400,000 to $500,000.
ON the eastern side of the harbor, bordering the City of Rye, is Harbor Lawn-Shore Acres, expensive one-family homes on extensive water frontage similar to Orienta Point. Two of the village's 16 beach clubs are there, including the Mamaroneck Beach and Yacht Club, formerly the estate of the New York financier Charles W. Osborn. Some buildings on the estate, designed by Stanford White in 1883, are still intact, including the turreted carriage house.
Rye Neck, the eastern half of the village, encompasses some older homes, including turn-of-the-century houses in the proposed Melbourne Avenue Historic District. North of the Metro-North rail line are more one-family homes, many of them historic, and a recently built 52-unit town-house complex, North of the Ridge.
Rye Neck is bordered on the north by the 850-acre county-owned Saxon Woods Park.
Mamaroneck Avenue, which divides the village into nearly two equal parts, is the center of the thriving but somewhat worn business district whose small shops offer a wide variety of goods and services. Popular restaurants include Satsumaya, combining Japanese and Western cuisine, and Abis, specializing in sushi. The Crab Shanty and Maguires are longtime local favorites, and Chef Antonio's offers Italian fare.
Since 1919, Walter's Hot Dogs on Palmer Avenue has purveyed its offerings from a pagodacomplete with copper roof and carp.
"You can hardly get a parking place, but the downtown needs a facelift," said Mayor Paul J. Noto, adding that the village was about to begin a $2 million esthetic improvement plan that will include burying overhead wires and installing new signs.
Because the village lies in two towns, children attend two school systems. In the Town of Mamaroneck they go to one of two k-6 elementary schools operated by the Mamaroneck Union Free School District, which also enrolls Larchmont children; Rye Neck children have their own k-4 elementary school, and there are separate middle schools through grade 8 and high schools for both systems.
The Mamaroneck system, with 3,718 students, has a high school noted for arts and music programs and a science program that produced a Westinghouse scholar three years ago. Three-quarters of the seniors go on to higher education.
The Rye Neck district, with 1,196 students, has won state and national recognition for its team approach to school management. Special high school programs include theater arts and such electives as Japanese culture and Sports in Literature. About 85 percent of the senior class goes on to college.
Students from both systems can use and attend performances at the 282-seat Emelin Theater adjacent to the Mamaroneck Free Library and founded by it. Today the Emelin operates independently as a performing-arts showcase that has major actors, musicians, cabaret artists and other performers.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 1993, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about living in Mamaroneck referred incorrectly to a condominium complex. It is Top of the Ridge, not North of the Ridge.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Boat-building and sailing are long traditions in Mamaroneck. The harbor viewed from Mamaroneck Avenue; a one-family house on Orienta Avenue. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Gazetteer"
 
Population: 7,616 (1990 census).
 
Area: 3.24 square miles.
 
Median household income: $54,374 (1990 census).
 
Median price of a one-family house: $305,357 (1990 Census).
 
Tax on median-priced house: $7,935.
 
Median price of a two-bedroom co-op: $88,000.
 
Median price of a two-bedroom condominium: $174,750.
 
Median rent of a two-bedroom apartment: $1,200.
 
Distance to midtown Manhattan: 23 miles.
 
Rush-hour commutation: 37 minutes by Metro-North; $6 one-way, $128 monthly.
 
Codes: Area 914, ZIP 10543.
 
Per-pupil school expenditure: Mamanoneck, $9,108; Rye Neck, $7,525.
 
Government: Mayor (Paul J. Noto, Republican), elected to two-year term, and four trustees, elected to staggered two-year terms.
 
There But for . . .: When the congregation at the Mamaroneck United Methodist Church sings "Amazing Grace," it means it. Three years ago, the church's one-ton bell crashed down from the tower just two minutes before the service, narrowly missing several parishioners and prompting a fervent rendition of the hymn. The incident became the catalyst to renovate the 134-year-old church -- work is still being done -- which was built by ship's carpenters to resemble an inverted hull. In March it was listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
 
Map of Mamaroneck.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (92%); GERMANY (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MAMARONECK (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (92%); GERMANY (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES WATER POLLUTION (90%); BEACHES (90%); SAILING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); MARINAS (77%); BOAT BUILDING (77%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (75%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (73%); SHIPBUILDING (72%); CRUSTACEANS (72%); HARBORS & PORTS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (68%); TENNIS (68%); SPORTS (68%); IMMIGRATION (67%); POLICE FORCES (54%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



405 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: Water Farm In Catskills Has Enemies

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON

DATELINE: CALLICOON, N.Y.

 BODY:
The burbling brooks that cut through the hills here have made this area on the edge of the Catskills a trout angler's paradise -- a world-renowned fishing center where environmentalism is a passion verging on a religion.
It was just the kind of place for a conservationist and former Sanskrit scholar like Andrew J. Krieger to move to after leaving Wall Street six years ago and giving up his claim to fame as the world's most daring trader in currency options. A vegetarian, he named his rolling estate Karma Farms "as a place where good things happen," and even planted grasses and grains so that wildlife would have food during the long, hard winters. 
But now Mr. Krieger has drawn the wrath of his equally environmentally minded neighbors by selling one of the area's most precious resources, the crystal-clear water that bubbles up from an aquifer beneath his farm, to the Great Bear Spring Company.
 
A Boost for the Area?
 One of Mr. Krieger's harshest critics is Mia Koerner, who says Mr. Krieger's water farm has spoiled the environment by drying up trout streams nearby.
"It makes me sick; it makes me cry," she said, tears welling in her eyes as she surveyed the bone-dry bed of the Sandelee Brook, the stream that once separated her property from Mr. Krieger's farm. "I had black bear, raccoons, all kinds of wildlife come drink. Now, nothing."
But Mr. Krieger, who wants to double the capacity of his holding tanks, dismisses her complaints, saying she is desperate for attention. He said the region's continuous drought had caused the trout streams to dry up, and argued that his farm's connection with Great Bear was a heaven-sent image-builder for the region. He added that he would "shut the whole thing down before I did anything to damage the environment."
Mr. Krieger's planned expansion has served as a lightening rod for opposition to the water farm. Chad Reed, the regional coordinator of the Watershed Association of the Delaware River, recently wrote the town Planning Board complaining that the harvesting had damaged the environment and asked that the town require Mr. Krieger to a conduct a detailed environmental review of the project. The town is still considering the expansion.
The battle is more than a fight between neighbors with shared passions. It has pointed up some of the loopholes in the state's water regulations and has focused attention on the growing demand for the region's water, which has long been thought of as virtually inexhaustible.
State officials say they have received a small but increasing number of complaints about the taking of water, and have begun to push for new regulations that would govern the taking of even small amounts.
"It's more important than oil," said Sheila Shultz, a longtime resident and a member of the conservation committee of the Theodore Gordon Fly Fishers, a local environmental group. "This situation may be mirrored in a whole lot of other places. It's always presented as clean industry. But it's given very little benefit to the area and it's a withdrawal of resources. It's a New York State resource, which is being extracted without any real benefits to New York."
 
A Clear Message
 In a letter to the town, Paul Levy, another resident, questioned Mr. Krieger's ownership of the water. "There are larger issues raised," he noted. "Can anyone truly be given permission to sell ground or surface water simply because they flow through that person's property? Do riparian rights have any influence on upstream water withdrawals? I think the message is clear. Water can no longer be considered an infinite resource."
But the dispute is also an example of the decisions confronting rural areas as they try to balance the need to grow and the desire to conserve a traditional way of life.
"Conservation is the keynote of modern living," residents concluded in a history of the area published four years ago as part of a celebration of the central school building. "To us this means conservation of all that makes our land beautiful; the woods, the streams, fish and game, so that for all who come here life may hold the charm and solace it held for James Beecher, the minister from Beecher Lake, when life moved so gently that he did not notice each day passing and mistook a Monday for a Sunday."
Once the borderland of Iroquois and Algonquin territories, the dense black forests of this region have held an abundance of game -- deer, elk, moose, panthers and beavers -- that attracted the first white settlers. Though most were from New England, they were soon followed in large numbers by Europeans fleeing the Irish potato famine and Germans escaping the 1848 revolution.
Most quickly found work in the logging industry and in the many tanneries, which flourished amid the hemlock trees, whose bark provided a nearby resevoir of tannic acid.
But once those industries collapsed, the region turned to its streams and rivers, including the Beaverkill, to attract residents and tourists. The rivers soon became synonymous around the world with great trout fishing.
 
Reliance on Rivers
 "The economy is based on the recreation of the rivers," Mrs. Koerner said as she drove through the area, which is 120 miles northwest of New York City. "Everything in this town survives on the rivers. This community would just fold up without it."
Robert Redford recently bought property in the area. So did Dan Rather. Laurance S. Rockefeller bought huge tracts along the Beaverkill, donated much of it to the state and sold small parcels to wealthy environmentalists. But Mr. Krieger, now the managing director of KB Currency Advisors, a trading company in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., saw another opportunity.
Hydrologists found his water among the purest in the country. So three years ago, he formed the Alpine Springs Waterworks, built a collection of pools, shelters and two 14,000-gallon storage tanks and began selling the water to Great Bear, a subsidiary of Perrier.
Mr. Krieger and Great Bear declined to say how much money Mr. Krieger is paid for the water or how much is taken each day from the farm. But researchers said that given the water's high quality, he should be earning at least a penny a gallon. And based on the capacity of the water farm, he could earn as much as $500,000 a year.
Richard Formuth, a water-resources engineer for the Delaware River Basin Commission, said Mr. Krieger should have obtained a permit from the interstate planning and regulatory agency when taking 100,000 gallons a day over a 30-day average anywhere in the basin. He also said harvesting should have stopped as soon as the stream's flow dropped under the seven-day low expected every decade.
But the commission, which has a staff of just 38 to oversee 12,755 square miles in three states, doesn't have an enforcement division and relies on the states for notification of projects needing permits.
The state Department of Environmental Conservation said Mr. Krieger did not need to obtain a permit from the agency. And Mr. Krieger said he didn't think he needed a permit. Although he told town officials he would harvest up to 124,000 gallons a day, he said he had never even come close to surpassing the threshold.
 
Growing Fury
 Mrs. Koerner said she did not oppose opening the water farm. But her spring dried up, forcing her to spend more than $5,000 for a new well. Her fury grew each time Great Bear trucks violated the schedule Mr. Krieger set for collecting the water. She began complaining. But she didn't become strident until the brook went dry -- she says for the first time in memory and weeks before any other area streams.
She said she finally received a telephone call from an unidentified man offering her a bribe if she would forget the problem.
But Mr. Krieger said the worsening drought had caused the streams to dry up. In the last three months, state figures show the upper Delaware River Basin has received just 6.72 inches of rain -- 45 percent less than normal. Mr. Krieger said his annual water harvest was less than a drop in the bucket when one considered that an inch of rain produced 17.5 million gallons per square mile and that the Cattail Brook, which received the flow from the Shandelee, carries 10 billion gallons of water a year.
"What we do has no effect on the environment," he said. "It's ludicrous. Pure water is a nice thing to be associated with. It's a nice, clean image. It's a good thing for the town. It should be proud of it."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 1993, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday about the effects of diverting streams by a bottled-water company in Callicoon, N.Y., described Andrew J. Krieger incorrectly in some copies. He owns the farm that holds the company spring; he does not own the company or the aquifer that feeds the spring.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Great Bear Spring Company sells crystal-clear water that bubbles up on the Callicoon, N.Y., farm owned by Andrew J. Krieger. He has plans to double the capacity of his holding tanks, left. Mia Koerner, right, says the water farm has spoiled the environment by drying up trout streams nearby. "I had black bear, raccoons, all kinds of wildlife come drink. Now, nothing," she said. (Photographs by Richard Franklin for The New York Times) (pg. 40)

Map of New York, indicating Callicoon. (pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GREAT BEAR SPRING CO GREAT BEAR SPRING CO (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREAT BEAR SPRING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALLICOON (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; TROUT; BOTTLED WATER ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); FISHES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); SPORT FISHING (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (88%); DROUGHT (75%); BOTTLED WATER (73%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); MEAT FREE DIETS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (65%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (60%); 

PERSON: KRIEGER, ANDREW J; GRUSON, LINDSEY

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



406 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Spring Hill Journal;
Rural Town Ages Rapidly Under Saturn's Influence

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SPRING HILL, Tenn., Aug. 11

 BODY:
For its first 176 years, Spring Hill was known for -- well, as Charlie Brown, the buildings superintendent, says, for "nothing."
Then, in 1985, the Saturn Corporation, a new unit of General Motors, announced that it would build a plant at the south end of town to produce spiffy new cars in a newfangled way, and suddenly Spring Hill became a dot on the map. A good map. 
 "Now," said Freeman Cowherd, the 62-year-old Mayor, "even the Japanese know Spring Hill."
Through five years of planning and construction of the plant and three years of automobile production there, the arrival of Saturn has generated stunning growth throughout Maury County. The population of Spring Hill, which is 35 miles south of Nashville, nearly doubled in a decade to 1990, to 1,464 people. The nearby town of Mount Pleasant grew by 27 percent, to 4,278. Columbia, the county's commercial center and its largest town, grew by 7.5 percent, to 28,583.
The spurt is continuing. Saturn added a third shift at the plant this year, for a total work force of about 7,000.
Yet like any new relationship, the union of Saturn and Spring Hill has brought about other changes as well, some undesirable and some still taking shape. Traffic is thicker than ever before. Schools are more crowded. Sewage lines are strained. Crime has increased. Even Saturn is having problems: The company recalled more than 380,000 cars last week to address an electrical flaw that was causing engine fires.
Analysts say the recall, Saturn's eighth in three years, could cost the company $8 million and briefly shake public confidence in a car that has been highly rated in customer-satisfaction surveys. But people here simply shrug their shoulders. "Maybe some might feel embarrassed for them," Mayor Cowherd said of his constituents. "I'd say most don't."
More evident through conversations with people here are feelings about a pace of life quickened by the influx of so many outsiders. By agreement with the United Automobile Workers, nearly all of those at Saturn were workers who had been laid off from other G.M. plants. As a result, Saturn has not substantially cut unemployment of about 6 percent in Maury County.
The arrival of the newcomers has created a curious blend of accents and cultures, with Northerners learning to slow down while Southerners try to speed up. This is a place, after all, where $4.95 buys a lunch of meat loaf and three vegetables at the Poplar House restaurant."
"Worst crime before Saturn arrived?" said Paul Williams, a former police chief. "I don't know. Weekend drunks, maybe." Now, the police force, which has grown to seven, from four, has to deal with more serious problems, like drugs.
The residents have other issues of communal importance to consider, like traffic, which becomes gridlock during shift changes at Saturn. Also, the town still has no doctor. And Mayor Cowherd says he worries about residents on fixed incomes who face certain tax increases for additional water and sewage lines, street work and police officers.
Most of the county's commercial growth since 1985 has occurred in Columbia, where last year Peter Hudson opened a bar. Many of Mr. Hudson's customers are Saturn workers on their way home to towns like Pulaski, Hohenwald and Mount Pleasant. Without their business, he said, "I wouldn't have opened this place."
Born and reared in Maury County, Mr. Hudson calls the whole area a boom town for Saturn's impact on real estate prices. After 1985, speculators began buying land and driving up prices all over. Mr. Brown, the Spring Hill buildings supervisor, said a new house of 1,200 square feet that cost $29,000 before Saturn found Spring Hill would now sell for $90,000.
One of the buyers was J. R. Guerrero, who built Pontiacs for 15 years in Fraser, Mich., 25 miles north of Detroit, before the plant there closed. Unemployed more than two years, he jumped at the chance to join Saturn and work in a parts warehouse. Upon arrival with his wife, he took in the slower pace and rustic landscape and told a real estate agent that he wanted a house with 10 acres, five minutes from a golf course and with water on the property.
"He laughed and said he'd call me back," Mr. Guerrero said, finishing a beer at Mr. Hudson's bar. The next day the agent told the Guerreros that the only problem was the acreage -- it was 11.3, not 10. And the golf course was 10 minutes away. The price: $53,000.
Mr. Guerrero, who is 36, describes himself as a typical Saturn employee, someone who is concerned about problems like engine fires and is sensitive to differences with his new neighbors.
"It's a lot like changing schools," he said. "You don't fit in until they get to know you. There has to be an adjustment period."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 1993, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday about the impact of a Saturn Corporation plant on the town of Spring Hill, Tenn., mislocated Peter Hudson's bar, which depends on the business from Saturn workers. It is in Columbia, a nearby town that has also been changed by the plant, not in Spring Hill.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Hudson, left and J. R. Guerrero outside Mr. Hudson's bar in Spring Hill, Tenn. Mr. Guerrerro works at the Saturn Corporation automobile plant, a company that has brought opportunity to the town. (Slick Lawson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SATURN CORP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP SATURN CORP (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SATURN CORP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SPRING HILL (TENN) UNITED STATES (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES CRIME RATES (86%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); PRODUCT RECALLS (64%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); MARKETING SURVEYS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



407 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2465 words

HEADLINE: Law Protects Mexico's Workers But Its Enforcement Is Often Lax

SERIES: A Partner's Hurdles: Mexico Faces Free Trade/First of two articles.

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MERIDA, Mexico, Aug. 13

 BODY:
"There's no way I can get my labor costs down to $1 an hour," groused an American executive pictured in a magazine advertisement promoting the state of Yucatan this year. Below his photograph the Yucatan government promised low wages and workers willing to accept them.
"When the U.S. is too expensive and the Far East too far," the advertisement said, "yes you can, in Yucatan." 
 Ross Perot and other American critics have cited just such an attitude in maintaining that thousands of American jobs would be shifted to Mexico if the United States enters into the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada, an accord that would gradually eliminate most trade and investment barriers among the three countries.
Worried that the advertisement could hurt the chances for the trade agreement, which Mexico has made a priority but which the United States Congress has not yet approved, Mexican officials withdrew it. But that did not allay concerns that American workers would lose jobs and receive lower wages under the agreement.
 
Side Accord Approved
 On Friday, after months of difficult negotiations, the three countries involved in the free-trade agreement announced a side accord that would impose fines or trade sanctions against any nation that did not enforce domestic labor laws or standards. That auxiliary pact is essentially aimed at preventing Mexico from exploiting its cheap labor to lure businesses away from the United States. In 1992, the average hourly compensation, including benefits, for production line workers in the United States was $16.17; in Mexico it was $2.35.
Another side agreement was reached to insure that pollution standards will be upheld after most trade tariffs are eliminated.
The free-trade agreement will reduce or eliminate tariffs on most goods moving across the borders of the three countries. Proponents say it will be a boon for workers, especially those in Mexico, who will find more jobs and higher wages.
But critics on both sides of the border say that the side agreement on labor may be too weak to bring deep changes in the structure of labor in Mexico: large but weak unions, indifferently enforced wage regulations and Government interference.
 
Pledge on Minimum Wage
 Hours after the side accords were announced, Mexico's President, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, said his Government would raise the current minimum wage of $4.21 a day to reflect increases in the productivity of Mexican workers. Mr. Salinas promised that the trade agreement and side accord would generally improve the well-being of Mexican workers and bring in "more jobs, clean and better paid."
But Mr. Salinas's pledge would directly affect only the 16 percent of Mexican workers receiving the minimum wage. The side agreement does focus on health and safety standards and child labor laws, but leaves out what many critics in the United States say are crucial labor rights, like guarantees of free unions and the rights of workers to pick their own representatives.
"The side agreement deals with an image of Mexico, not the reality," said Harley Shaiken, a professor of industrial relations now at the University of California at Berkeley and the author of two books on Mexico's economy. "The difficult issue of the lack of real labor rights in Mexico and the way in which that might affect jobs and wages in the U.S. is not dealt with at all."
Critics of the agreement say that the continuing weakness of Mexican labor will undercut American workers, who must negotiate with plant managers already threatening at every turn to move to Mexico. They paint a frightening picture of a Mexico filled with industrial hazards, labor exploitation and a cozy relationship between unions and the Government that can compromise worker rights or squash those who oppose the status quo whether at small factories or multinational corporations like Ford, Volkswagen or General Electric.
 
The Record
Labor Rights Exist, At Least on Paper
 A brickmaking settlement in the town of Ixtapaluca, 19 miles southeast of Mexico City, illustrates the complexity of the Mexican labor scene, and the gap the agreement would have to bridge to harmonize working standards here with those in the United States.
The 600 families there scrape a living from the mud around them, which they mix with straw or dung to make bricks. Jose Gomez Rosario, 71, and his family have lived there 28 years, and he is proud to show his membership card in a family brickmakers' union. The trucks that haul out the handmade bricks also bear prominent union symbols.
But neither unionizing nor constitutional labor rights have made much difference in Ixtapaluca. The brickyard itself is all mud and much misery. Water comes from a truck. The only way to get electricity is to tap light poles on the nearby highway illegally. Some brickmakers fire their ovens with an oil mixture that darkens the sky. Children draw water, women haul bricks, even grandparents spread around the sawdust that is used to fuel the fires more cleanly on the rare occasions when inspectors show up.
Working conditions are generally considered to be better at big corporations, which are under the most pressure to obey labor laws. But for many Mexicans, the reality of work is rough. The 16 percent who are street vendors or who otherwise work in Mexico's informal economy are unprotected by labor laws. And since more than 80 percent of workers in the formal sector are employed in companies of fewer than 15 employees, they too are excluded from nearly all Government supervision.
The percentage of Mexican workers who belong to unions is more than twice as high as in the United States, 36 percent to 14 percent. They have comprehensive labor rights, guaranteed by Article 123 of the 1917 Constitution and enforced through the Federal Labor Law.
A workweek here is 48 hours but Mexican workers are guaranteed six paid vacation days after one year's work. They have the right to organize and freely choose their unions. Profit-sharing is expected, child labor is illegal, women are entitled to a total of 12 weeks' paid pregnancy leave and working mothers are given two special half-hour rest periods in which they can breast-feed their children.
Officials in the ministry of labor declined to comment on Mexico's labor rights record because of the sensitivity of the negotiations on the trade agreement. But in a report prepared in response to Washington's concerns, the Government defends its record.
Safety inspectors made 4,728 visits to plants last year, while 48,783 more were conducted to insure that employers were following labor laws, the report said. It said that last year there were 6,814 notices of intent to strike by union locals, although only 2 percent of the strikes actually occurred.
Still, groups like the Mexican Association of Democratic Lawyers say labor rights exist only on paper. "Violation of workers' rights persists, but workers can't turn to the authorities because it is the authorities themselves who commit the violations," said Manuel Fuentes, a lawyer in Mexico City involved in labor issues.
 
A Case History
Blacklist Charged At Border Plants
 Fearing reprisal at home, Mexican workers have been most outspoken when they have gone to the United States.
Alma L. Molina of Ciudad Juarez, across the Rio Grande from El Paso, Tex., testified before the House Subcommittee on Employment, Housing and Aviation last month that she was blacklisted for trying to organize workers at Clarostat, an American-owned assembly plant on the border. At the plant, called a maquiladora, 300 employees earn the Mexican minimum wage making electrical switches.
She said that after she was dismissed by Clarostat she found another job at Electrocomponentes, a plant owned by the General Electric Company that makes wiring for refrigerators.
"I had been at G.E. for only 7 days when I was called into the personnel office and shown a list with my name on it," Mrs. Molina testified. "The list was kept in a black folder. The personnel man said that he did not know why my name was on the list but that he would have to fire me anyway."
General Electric denies that there is a blacklist and said Mrs. Molina was dismissed because she was not doing her job satisfactorily. She has filed a lawsuit against G.E. with the Mexican Labor Board.
American unions have fiercely opposed the agreement, and Mexican unions have quietly acquiesced, a strong indication that thousands of low-skill American manufacturing jobs will probably be shifted south of the border. Estimates range from a low of 19,000 jobs to a high of 900,000, with the Institute for International Economics in Washington predicting 112,000.
Many analysts say they believe that workers in the United States who lose their jobs will be least likely to benefit from the export-related jobs that would be created by an increase in trade with Mexico. For that reason, President Clinton is expected to include a revamped worker retraining program as part of the sweeteners he will use to try to get Congress to approve the agreement and its side accords.
The side accord on labor basically establishes a special commission to inspect and review working conditions in all three countries. It will be able to issue fines of up to $20 million or, as a last resort, impose trade sanctions to suspend the benefits of the agreement until the fines are paid.
It will be empowered to look into accusations of violations, focusing on safety and health. But Mexico was not willing to give any commission the power to investigate allegations concerning problems between the Government and unions, a key area that many critics in both countries have said will have to be open to scrutiny if the condition of Mexican workers really is to improve. "
 
The Government
Officials Accused Of Intimidation
 The United States decided years ago that protection of workers' rights should be a condition for lowering tariffs on goods from developing nations, a program known as the Generalized System of Preferences.
Mexico is already the largest beneficiary of 140 developing countries in the system. In 1991, and again this year, the International Labor Rights Education and Research Fund -- a nonprofit organization led by Ray Marshall, a Labor Secretary in the Reagan Administration -- has tried to disqualify Mexico because of its labor record. The first attempt was rejected by the United States Trade Representative, and Government action on the current one is considered unlikely because it could imperil the trade agreement.
Still, the labor rights group focuses on concerns that others, including President Clinton, have raised before. The petition argues that the Mexican Government restricts the rights of workers in various ways, manipulates union activities and intimidates dissident union leaders.
In one example, Agapito Gonzalez Cavazos, head of the Day Laborers' and Industrial Workers Union in Matamoros, across the Rio Grande from Brownsville, Tex., tried openly last year to negotiate higher wages than allowed by a longstanding pact between the Government and the national labor federation. The federal police arrested him on four-year-old tax evasion charges and detained him for months. The settlement reached in his absence was substantially less than he had been seeking.
 
The Unions
Inflation Is Curbed, But Workers Pay
 Every Monday, Fidel Velazquez, the 92-year-old leader of Mexico's national labor organization, the Confederation of Mexican Workers, holds a news conference to discuss the state of Mexican workers. In a country where the President and all major political leaders cannot run for re-election, Don Fidel, as everyone refers to him, has been head of organized labor for more than 50 years.
His long reign, and his role as a political figure, is one sign of how unions here are tied much more closely to the Government than in the United States. Stability is a key element in a six-year-old pact between Government and unions on wage and price controls that has helped bring inflation below 10 percent for the first time in 20 years and keep Mexico attractive to many American executives.
President Salinas acknowledges Mr. Velazquez's help in reducing inflation. But it is the Mexican worker who has in effect paid the price for the pact's strategy. While productivity has risen, the buying power of wages has dropped.
Critics of the agreement are disturbed by the gap between theory and reality in the labor situation here. Official unemployment figures are usually below 3 percent, but many analysts say the real rate is higher, perhaps 15 percent. Mexico counts as employed anyone working one hour a week or more. Because Mexico does not have unemployment insurance, jobless Mexicans are forced to do something to bring in money, so the chewing-gum peddlers on almost every Mexico City street corner are technically employed.
 
The Workplace
Safety Is Slighted: The Wage Is All

The new $25 million Mercedes-Benz automobile assembly line in Santiago Tianguistenco northwest of Mexico City is the type of investment that proponents of the trade agreement say will benefit Mexico. Workers build $90,000 sedans in efficient, well-lighted spaces, and where appropriate they are given hard hats, safety glasses and advanced training.
But a more typical experience is that of the 50 mechanics in the body shop at Consa Ford, one of Mexico City's largest auto dealerships, who use neither masks nor other safety equipment in their dangerously crowded shed. On a recent afternoon, Roberto Morales, 23, struggled to remove a shattered windshield without protective gloves or goggles, using only a dirty floor mat to push out the broken glass.
"Sure, it's dangerous," Mr. Morales said. Then he shrugged and went on pushing against the jigsaw of shattered glass.
Across the shed, Samuel Gomez Davilla was busy spray-painting the front fender of a Ford Topaz midnight black. Proud of his work, he bent close to see any bumps or misses. Spray clouded his face and spilled on a co-worker who was lying on the ground nearby to remove a bumper.
Mr. Gomez Davilla said that Consa was inspected a few times a year but that no one made an issue of respirator masks. After searching for a few seconds he found his at the bottom of his locker. He said that it had been two years since he used it and that he had no idea where to obtain replacement filters.
But what is important to him is that he is working, and making money. As for working conditions, the 31-year-old father of two girls, who has been painting cars since he was 18, said: "It's always been this way. We're used to it."
NEXT: Mexico's environmental efforts.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 1993, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 15 about working conditions in Mexico misidentified the American Administration in which Ray Marshall, head of a group critical of Mexico's labor record, served as Labor Secretary. It was the Carter Administration, not the Reagan Administration.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The brickmaking settlement in Ixtapaluca, 19 miles southeast of Mexico City, illustrates the complexity of the Mexican labor scene, and the gap the free-trade agreement would have to bridge to harmonize working standards there with those in the U.S. Neither unionizing nor constitutional labor rights have done much to reduce the danger and misery for the 600 families that scrape a living from the mud there. (Sergio Dorantes for The New York Times) (pg. 14)
 
Graph: "Who Earns What," tracks average wages and benefits in countries involved in the North American Free Trade Agreement, 1975-1992 (Source: U.S. Labor Statistics) (pg. 14)
 
Map of Mexico, indicating Yucatan. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; CANADA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; LABOR; SURVEYS AND SERIES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; FINES (PENALTIES); TREATIES ; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR UNIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); LAW AND LEGISLATION TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); APPROVALS (73%); CHILD LABOR (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (70%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (65%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (65%); FINES & PENALTIES (51%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



408 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 6; Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: As Nynex Jobs Depart Changes Are Made

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
ON the surface, Nynex's announcement last month that it was moving 600 workers from an office building here to Manhattan appeared to be just another piece of bad news for Westchester, which has been hit hard in recent years by job losses because of corporate restructuring. The global telecommunications company said it was moving the employees to streamline operations and cut costs.
Local officials, who said they were at first dismayed that yet more jobs would be lost in the county, recently learned that a developer planned to include Bloomingdale's in plans for a major shopping mall adjacent to the Nynex site -- and that in the long run, economic growth and more jobs could result. 
 "My first reaction was that the changes at Nynex would come as a real blow to the county," said Sy J. Schulman, a member of this city's Common Council. "All these big companies are always readjusting, and Westchester keeps feeling the effects."
The county's jobless rate in June, the latest month for which figures were available, was 5.9 percent, up from 5.6 percent in May. The rate for June was the second highest for the month in 10 years, according to the State Department of Labor. Because many large corporations, including Nynex, are situated in the county, the effect of staff reductions in recent years has been reflected in unemployment figures.
 
Bloomingdale's to Move
 Shortly after Nynex announced that it would be moving some workers out of Westchester, Alexius C. Conroy, a Greenwich-based developer, announced that he had negotiated with Bloomingdale's, a division of Federated Department Stores, to move its White Plains store to the Nynex site. Mr. Conroy purchased the 156,000-square-foot Nynex building at 120 Bloomingdale Road for $21.5 million,
Bloomingdale's is now less than a mile away on Bloomingdale Road.
Mr. Conroy said he plans to demolish the Nynex building, a former Nestle Foods headquarters, and construct the 900,000-square-foot shopping mall there, at the corner of Maple Avenue and Bloomingdale Road, at the site of Saks Fifth Avenue.
If the Conroy Development Company's plans are approved by the city, the new mall, Westchester Place, would become the third new shopping center planned for this city.
 
New Malls Under Way
 "It's a perfect situation," said John H. Rostenberg, a partner with the Rostenberg-Doern Company, a corporate real estate concern in Stamford and Purchase. "Nynex is doing what it needs to do, and the city may get what it needs in terms of new shopping and increased sales revenues."
The Manhattan-based O'Connor Group, a real estate investment firm, is building a one-million-square-foot shopping mall at the corner of Maple Avenue and Bloomingdale Road, across Maple from the proposed Conroy project. The Westchester, as it is called, will include the present Neiman Marcus store and add 150 smaller stores and the first Nordstrom store in New York State.
Another mall, the Westchester Pavilion, in the former Alexander's building at South Broadway and Maple Avenue, plans to open discount stores, like Toys 'R' Us, this fall.
Also, the Galleria, an 880,000-square-foot mall in downtown White Plains, is undergoing an $8 million renovation.
Mr. Conroy has suggested that the current Bloomingdale's site on Bloomingdale Road -- which Federated leases from the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center -- could become an entertainment center with a movie theater and a supermarket. He said that he is taking over Federated's lease obligations for the property.
The Nynex employees who will be moving early in 1995 are part of the company's Telesector Resources Group, a technical support, information services and marketing division.
Another 5,600 Nynex workers in White Plains will not be moving, said Linda Ruggiera, a spokeswoman.
The employees' move to 1160 Avenue of the Americas will bring the Telesector division closer to New York Telephone employees who use their services, Ms. Ruggiera said. She said no layoffs were involved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NYNEX CORP; BLOOMINGDALE'S ROSTENBERG-DOERN CO INC (62%); MACY'S INC (57%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (52%); NESTLE FOODS CORP (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NYNEX CORP; BLOOMINGDALE'S

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (73%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (60%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



409 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1622 words

HEADLINE: Years After Bias Ruling, Yonkers Still a House Divided

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: YONKERS

 BODY:
MARY MUNSON is weary from the din in the streets, the filth in the elevators and the ever-present threat of drugs and violence that stalks her son and daughter as they travel to and from school. After 10 years of living in this rundown west side neighborhood, Ms. Munson -- who is black and raising her children alone -- said she hopes the next phase of a court-ordered housing desegregation plan will mean an opportunity to finally better her family's circumstances.
Ms. Munson, locking the steel gate behind her in the courtyard of the federally subsidized apartment building for people of low and moderate income where she lives, escorted a visitor to her apartment, to meet Ha-Saun and Tamara, her 15-year-old twins. Once inside, Ms. Munson, who is an executive assistant for Barnes and Noble Bookstores in Manhattan, talked about how the mostly black and Hispanic areas of this city have deteriorated over the years, how her children rarely go outside anymore and about how much she wants to move to a neighborhood where there are lawns, shade trees and safe places to ride a bike. 
 On the east side of this city, in a mostly white neighborhood known as Mohegan Heights -- where the streets are named after Indian tribes and where flower beds flatter well-watered lawns -- Anthony C. Romeo, a retired paint salesman, remembered when he moved here from the Bronx 39 years ago. He said he purchased his four-bedroom house, which cost $28,000 then, "by the skin of my teeth."
The Tudor-style home with its circular driveway is worth about $285,000 in today's market. But Mr. Romeo and his wife, Mary, who are white, fear that a Federal judge's order to build subsidized housing in their neighborhood for west side residents like Ms. Munson could cause the value of their home to plummet.
"Real estate agents will tell you that no one wants to buy if that kind of housing is coming in," Mr. Romeo said.
But Kenneth W. Jenkins, president of the Yonkers branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, disagreed. "Affordable housing," he said, "doesn't bring down the neighborhood, it just brings in new people."
The N.A.A.C.P., along with the United States Department of Justice, are plaintiffs in an ongoing desegregation lawsuit against the city. In 1986, Federal District Judge Leonard B. Sand found the city and school system guilty of intentional segregation over a nearly 40-year period. He ordered racial integration of the schools and extracted a consent decree from the city to integrate its housing.
Judge Sand's order to build 200 units of low-cost housing for mostly minority families in largely white neighborhoods of this city is close to completion. Most of these units have been occupied for more than a year and although there was initially strong objection to the plan by neighborhood homeowners, there have been few substantive complaints since then.
The second part of his housing plan -- the scattering of an additional 800 units of affordable moderate-income housing in white neighborhoods in east and northwest Yonkers -- has not yet begun.
Last month in United States District Court in Manhattan, Judge Sand directed a court-appointed Fair Housing Implementation Office to seek proposals from builders willing to construct 170 rental and ownership units on three east side sites. At least half of the units in any building would be available at market rate, and the rest would be affordable units for people who have lived in public housing in Yonkers within the last 22 years or who live or work in Yonkers now within income guidelines.
The judge also directed the city to work with a nonprofit housing agency to implement a plan for developing at least 250 units of affordable housing in existing sites, like cooperative or condominium buildings. The judge indicated that if the city were successful in placing families in more than 250 existing units, the additional units might be credited against the number of new housing units that needed to be built.
In interviews last week, some east side residents said Judge Sand was unfairly imposing a housing plan on people who had worked hard for their money and wanted only to preserve the equity in the homes they owned. Also, they flatly rejected stereotyping that suggested their opposition to the plan had racist roots.
"The bottom line is economics, not color," Mr. Romeo said. "Personally, I don't care what race someone is. If you have the money, you have the right to live where you want. It's as simple as that."
Dionisia Sanchez, a nurse, and her husband, John, who owns a self-service laundry, also live in Mohegan Heights. The Hispanic couple purchased their Tudor-style home three years ago for $300,000. Mrs. Sanchez said that her white neighbors have always been friendly, greeting the family with home-grown vegetables and flowers when they moved in. Over the years, they began to socialize, forming close friendships and celebrating birthdays and anniversaries together.
 
'It's Not Fair'
 The Sanchez and Romeo families have never met, but they share in common their opposition to Judge Sand's latest proposals, because one of the sites being considered by the Fair Housing Implementation Office is on an empty lot at the corner of Tuckahoe Road and Cross Street, close to the Mohegan Heights neighborhood.
"It's not fair," Mrs. Sanchez said. "You have to work for what you get, like we did. People who get something for nothing don't take care of property, and then the rest of us suffer."
Ms. Munson may live across town in a poor neighborhood, but she is dealing with a similar problem.
"Our building used to be nice," said Ms. Munson, who pays $850 a month for a three-bedroom apartment. "But some welfare people are coming here now and messing it up. I, too, resent people getting something for nothing and abusing it."
 
A Chance to Buy a Home
 Ms. Munson said she tries to insulate her family from negative influences in the neighborhood, and she has not allowed Ha-Saun to cut designs into his hair or wear baggy pants, as some other black youths do. "We want to stay away from being stereotyped," she explained. She said she is raising the children, both of whom are studying to be architects, as Jehovah's Witnesses.
Despite her efforts, she said the only way she could truly escape the problems of her neighborhood would be to buy a cooperative or condominium apartment in a "nice area on the east side" with the help of a government subsidy. She earns $35,500 a year and has not been able to save enough money for a down payment on a home of her own.
But an advertisement placed in a local newspaper in April by the Yonkers Bureau of Community Development recently caught Ms. Munson's attention. It read: "Interested in affordable housing? You could be enjoying your new home in as little as one month!"
The ad explained that the city was creating opportunities for first-time home ownership. To be eligible for government subsidies, the ad said, individuals who apply must earn less than $46,800. For a family of four, the limit was $66,960.
 
Many Coops and Condos for Sale
 Because the city wants to scatter subsidized units in existing buildings throughout the east and northwest sections of Yonkers, its plan "offers a cost-effective way to more completely integrate minorities and other people into the fabric of the community," said Marie E. Burkart, director of the Community Development Bureau.
Ms. Burkart explained that the city, through the outside housing agency, could draw on the large pool of cooperatives and condominiums that are for sale in east and northwest Yonkers, some at below-market prices in a flagging real estate market.
She said that families or individuals who are found creditworthy would be matched with a bank and would be eligible for mortgage or down-payment subsidies, using Federal Community Development Block Grant funds. Other applicants would receive credit counseling to prepare them for purchasing a home in the future.
More than 1,000 applicants responded to the ad the city ran, Ms. Burkart said.
 
Objections Are Unwarranted
 At the Fair Housing Implementation Office, Linda D. Blake, the program coordinator, termed the residents' objections to the housing plans unwarranted and "arrogant." She said the income of those who would be eligible for subsidized housing could well be the same as many of the people already living in the east side neighborhoods -- particularly those who bought their homes years ago at cheaper prices.
Ms. Blake pointed out that if someone purchased a home in the 1950's, they may have been eligible for Veterans Administration or other Federal loan guarantees. "Now the Federal Government is putting loans into place for others under this program," she said.
The east side property owners say it's a matter of economics "because that's a more comfortable argument," she said, adding, "But the issue was certainly race in the 1950's, when minorities' rights were being denied."
As the city and Fair Housing Office Implementation Office explore their plans, Mr. Jenkins of the N.A.A.C.P. has grown increasingly impatient.
"This is all taking far too long and far too many resources," he said, explaining that the legal costs alone for the plaintiffs in the lawsuit had exceeded $26 million.
"For that amount of money," he said, "we could have built single-family units in Scarsdale."
Meanwhile, Ms. Munson waits. "I dream, but I try not to get too excited one way or the other," she said. "For now, here is just a place to sleep and eat, like a filling station. Someday, though, maybe my children will be able to go outside on the street again, or have a friend next door."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mary Munson and her children, who live on west side of Yonkers, want to move to subsidized housing on east side, where Anthony C. Romeo and others worry about property values. (Muhammad Ozier/The New York Times: Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YONKERS (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING RACE & RACISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); JUDGES (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAMILY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); LITIGATION (76%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); BOOKSTORES (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA; SAND, LEONARD (JUDGE)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



410 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: At a Movie-Money Lifeline, It's a Wrap

BYLINE: By ANNE THOMPSON; Anne Thompson is a Los Angeles-based writer.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
AST February, Dan Sherkow was gearing up to begin filming an independently made thriller, "Cops." The movie producer had a cast and a director in place and about $13 million in financing lined up through the usual patchwork of banks and advance guarantees from key European distributors. Then his completion bond fell through, and the entire project was in jeopardy.
Completion bonds are the insurance policies that independent movie makers must get as a prerequisite for bank loans. They guarantee that if a movie misses deadlines or goes over-budget, a bond company can take over and complete production or repay the lenders. 
 Mr. Sherkow had been working on a deal with the Completion Bond Company when he learned that it was about to stop issuing bonds. Now, six months later, Mr. Sherkow says he is confident that "Cops" will be made after all, but at least eight months later than planned.
He has a letter of intent from one of the two remaining American bond companies, Film Finances Inc. As an established producer ("Suspect" is among his credits), he will probably get his bond and the money to make his movie. "It's the fringe pictures that have a real problem," Mr. Sherkow said. "There are only two companies out there."
Indeed, the impending demise of Completion Bond -- which will close its doors as soon as the films it has already bonded are completed -- has sent ripples of concern through the ranks of independent film makers, underscoring the importance of the bonds to the movie industry.
In its 12-year history, Completion Bond, based in Los Angeles, won a reputation as the most aggressive in the business, guaranteeing more than 1,000 movies, including some of the most expensive high-risk projects, like "1492," a Paramount release in the summer of 1992. It stopped issuing bonds in April after the Trans america Corporation, the insurer that bought the company in 1990, decided that the responsibility and risks of the business outweighed the rewards.
Completion Bond had been buffeted by stiff competition from its big rival, Film Finances, in a battle that forced bond fees down for both. And last year, Completion Bond had to step in and spend millions to complete "Malcolm X" and "Hoffa."
The departure of Completion Bond leaves the field to the more conservative Film Finances and a small newcomer, International Film Guarantors, both of Los Angeles.
With fewer and more cautious bond companies to choose from, independent producers have found that bond fees have gone up sharply, to between 3 percent and 5 percent of a movie's budget, according to Mr. Sherkow. At their nadir, the fees had dropped to as little as 1 percent.
Some producers are also experiencing delays in getting bond commitments. Even Film Finances is not issuing some bonds because it is renegotiating with its re-insurer, Lloyd's of London, in light of its more advantageous position in the market. It is expected to issue more bonds within the month. Re-insurers are the insurers that stand behind bond issuers as the ultimate guarantors.
Worst of all for the independent producers, those with the riskiest projects may find it impossible to get bonds, some in the industry say.
Film Finances, for example, has a limit on the size of the pictures it will bond, and is turning down projects. "With more projects submitted, they can pick and choose," Mr. Sherkow said. "It's ironic that this is happening at a time when independent pictures are at the pinnacle of growth, with high-profile movies like 'Howards End,' 'The Player' and 'The Crying Game' making distributors more open to them."
The bottom line is that some movies will reach the screen only if the producers can find sanctuary among the major studios. But getting studio support is a long shot for the less commercial projects.
Terry Curtis Fox, the screenwriter of "Cops," said if the remaining bond companies "say 'no,' you're dead. You can make a movie without a studio, but you can't make a movie without a studio or a completion bond."
He added: "The bonders used to be the enemy that kept a movie on track with the threat of a takeover. After C.B.C. got out of the business, they started to look like the savior of the Western world."
The practice of buying a completion bond to get funding for low-budget independent movies gained popularity in Europe in the early 1970's, and became widespread in the United States during the next decade.
By the late 1980's, the completion bond industry was booming in this country, with Completion Bond splitting the market with Film Finances, which was founded in 1950. Last year, Film Finances bonded $800 million in movie productions and Completion Bond was not far behind, said Lenore Nelson, a vice president at the Imperial Bank, a lender here to movie companies. Neither company would comment on revenues and earnings.
AS the global financing of independent movies became increasingly common and complex, "the completion bond became the spine of the movie deal," said Fred Milstein, a former vice president at Completion Bond.
In the good old days, it was rare for a bond company to become involved with the actual production of a movie; not enough was on the line to warrant such close attention.
It was rarer still to have a bond company take over a production -- after all, producers certainly didn't want that blot on their reputations.
Slowly, however, more of the riskier, higher-budget projects, like "Baron Munchausen," "1492" and this summer's "Cliffhanger," were funded by groups of foreign distributors with completion bonds, rather than being underwritten and supervised by the Hollywood studios that intended to release them in the United States. In many of those deals, the studios, by making promises of distribution, helped the independent producers get their bonds as a way to reduce the studios' risk on favored projects.
The recession made the stakes much higher in those deals. "It put tremendous pressure on producers and financiers to squeeze every ounce of creativity out of every nickel," Mr. Milstein said. "When we had a budget years ago, there was a certain amount of breathing room that would be sufficient for any problem, barring a catastrophe. A bond was only supposed to cover unforeseen events."
Because of their larger exposure, bond companies gradually became active participants in the movie-making process, signing off on schedules and budgets down to the minute details, from expensive locations to the numbers of cameras and extras. Representatives of the bond companies became a daily presence on the movie sets, and if anything went wrong, they were prepared to take over.
Film Finances had to take over the special-effects fantasy "Baron Munchausen" when the production went out of financial control in 1988, and the bond company wound up spending $15 million to finish the project.
BUT as the risks and costs increased for the bond companies, their fees went down as Completion Bond and Film Finances competed for business.
"We're between a rock and a hard place," said Bette Smith, the founder and president of Completion Bond, at the American Film Market, an industry gathering here in February. "Completion bond companies have taken on an exposure never contemplated when this insurance was conceived."
The squeeze proved fatal to Completion Bond two months later. Trans america stopped underwriting the bonds "as part of our overall corporate restructuring," a spokeswoman for Transamerica said, "as well as due to marketplace pressures that hinder our ability to achieve a reasonable profit in this line."
With Completion Bond out of the way, conditions appear to be improving for the survivors. "Our rates have gone up," said Richard Soames, president of Film Finances, who also cited the ongoing negotiations with Lloyd's.
Higher bond rates translate, of course, into increased production costs -- making producers think harder about staying independent.
In a dramatic illustration of the new bond calculus, producer-writer-director James Cameron ("Terminator 2: Judgment Day") recently renegotiated his independent deal for "True Lies," a movie starring Arnold Schwarzenegger due to be released next summer. Rather than Mr. Cameron raising the bulk of the financing from foreign banks, and paying dearly for a bond, Twentieth Century Fox will foot most of the bill. "It didn't make sense to stay independent," said Mr. Milstein.
While there would seem to be opportunities for new entrants in the completion bond field, Mr. Soames of Film Finances says would-be players will find "it's too hard to get credibility" with re-insurers.
STILL, Ms. Nelson of Imperial Bank said, "a lot of people see an opening here in the bond business."
Some of the smaller regional bond companies in Canada and Europe are expected to enter the American market. And Mr. Milstein said he thought he could get a re-insurer to back him.
"The re-insurers are wary because it's clear completion bonds can be a treacherous business," he said. "But some of them are expressing interest because they realize there is a market need and opportunity. The business can return to being healthier if the guarantors get tougher and smarter."
That means higher rates will not be going away any time soon, Mr. Milstein said, adding that the bond company representatives promise to be an even more intrusive element in the production process.
"I see guarantors being selective about the business they agree to underwrite," Mr. Milstein said. "They want producers to act responsibly. Producers will have to bear a greater proportion of the risk."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "They Bond Movies, Don't They?" lists some of the movies bonded by the Completion Bond Company, which is going out of business, and Film Finances, (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: COMPLETION BOND CO

ORGANIZATION: COMPLETION BOND CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; FINANCES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIE FILMING (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); BONDS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); INSURANCE (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); INSURANCE POLICIES (71%); 

PERSON: THOMPSON, ANNE

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



411 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Life;
The Challenging Life of a Corporate Nomad

BYLINE: By Michael S. Malone; Michael S. Malone writes frequently about Silicon Valley from Los Altos, Calif.

 BODY:
A LITTLE-TROD career path bred in the technology industry over the last 10 years may yet offer opportunities for the most independent-minded of the nation's unemployed managers: joining the ranks of "rented execs." But would-be rent-execs should be forewarned: the job requires a unique personality and can come with considerable emotional sacrifice.
Typically senior managers, rent-execs have lost interest in the concept of a long-term job at a single company and are hungry for new experiences and independence. They may be brought in by new companies on the way up, or to help rescue companies on the way down. Or, in the latest developments of a downsizing age, they may be rented by established companies to deal with special short-term projects. 
 Said Peter Van Horne, vice president of State of the Art Computing Inc. of San Diego, a firm created to manage just such rented technical managers at established companies: "A company has a new product it wants to develop but realizes that by the time it puts together a staff, that product won't reach the market in time. So the company comes to us. We can provide it with a complete product development team, senior management, a facility, computers, telephones, even a janitorial service."
One rented exec handled by Mr. Van Horne is Jesse B. Hillman. A veteran of I.B.M. who has worked at a number of companies and founded several others, Mr. Hillman, 52, is acting director of applications development for Mitchell International Inc., a leading maker of estimating and repair systems for car repair shops and insurance companies. He works on a month-by-month contract, yet has five managers and 57 employees working for him.
Why? "I get more control over my finances than just a 1040 with a W-2 stapled to it," said Mr. Hillman. "Mitchell pays me more per hour than if I were an employee, but it's also not paying my benefits. I'm in the driver's seat on those matters."
Rented execs hired by hot startups tend to bring a special skill that the entrepreneurial team is missing. In a technology company, this gap is often in sales and marketing. R. Greg Lynott, 46, of Boulder, Colo., has been hired by several companies, typically for only six months and usually as a vice president, to help establish relationships with distributors, set product value and define future products.
"It's addictive," Mr. Lynott said. "The adrenalin rush is fun. I personally get a kick out of calling people and saying 'I'm with XYZ company' and have them say 'With who?' I get a special thrill out of introducing a new company, product or concept. And the potential payoffs can be huge: A lot of guys in smaller companies take an equity position -- then they're off doing something else years later and they learn they've hit the jackpot.
"Best of all, there's almost no politics. When you're a lifetime employee working for that gold watch, you live office politics or die. In this job, politics isn't your concern -- you won't be there long enough. What counts is success."
John B. Carrington is the rarest of rented execs, specializing in the sometimes emotionally draining business of taking the top job at troubled startups and trying to salvage them. At 49, he has saved the operations of seven companies by selling them to larger corporations like Encyclopaedia Britannica, Cybertek and American Publishing.
On average he has salvaged firms with $10 million or more venture capital that have stalled and are sliding into oblivion. For C.E.O.'s pay and as much as 20 percent of the eventual sale price, Mr. Carrington performs what he calls "damage control," turning the company around and establishing a strategic alliance with another corporation that usually ends up buying the operation. The process is often touch and go, he said: "I've been to Bankruptcy Court more than once, but I've never had to file."
Now, however, Mr. Carrington is ready to settle down for a while. He recently turned down two bigger salvage deals to take a job with Digitalk, a $15 million maker of software development tools in Los Angeles. He admitted he was "getting tired of the nomadic existence."
For the life of the rented exec does come with considerable costs.
For one thing, it is unpredictable. Said Mr. Lynott: "Remember, you are entering a company at its highest risk point. You live and die by the sword. The statistics say you are going to work for a lot of companies that won't make it. It can be very depressing."
Just as important, as Mr. Van Horne put it: "You have to be willing to sell yourself every day. You have to determine what needs to be done and see the job through, not just put in your time."
Mr. Carrington added to this list a short attention span, a real desire to learn new things at a high level, a good network of investors who will hire you and specialists who can help you, and the ability to recognize your own weaknesses and find an employee who can compensate for them.
But most of all, you have to naturally be a lone wolf. "You always know you're going to be moving on," said Mr. Lynott.
Added Mr. Carrington: "It's lonely. It's the difference between the house you live in and the house you buy to resell. You find that you don't want to get too close because you are going to be selling the place. Yet even though you're not supposed to, you get the 'White Knight Syndrome.' There's a tremendous sense of accomplishment that comes from taking a dying company and not only finding a buyer but jobs for the employees in a company with good benefits and a future. You feel like you've done something."
So how long does he expect to stay at Digitalk? Probably years instead of months -- or, he said, "At least until my attention wanders again."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SOTA (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: MITCHELL INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT; LABOR EMPLOYMENT (91%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (87%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (70%); INSURANCE (66%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: MALONE, MICHAEL S

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



412 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: Russia Mobsters Grow More Violent and Pervasive

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 15

 BODY:
At 2 P.M. on July 19, seven men with machine guns burst into an automobile showroom on Leninsky Prospekt and opened fire. Security guards shot back, and four people died.
Two weeks later, in another mid-afternoon attack, gunmen leaped from a BMW and shot up a downtown building, killing four people before someone rolled a grenade under their car. 
 Last week, in another lunch-hour attack, three people were killed by machine-gun fire in a Moscow office.
Moscow's gangsters, a brazen lot to begin with, have put their brutality on display this summer with a series of gangland-style hits right out of "The Untouchables." Nothing seems to faze them, not the police, not public outrage, not even broad daylight.
Innocent victims are not a consideration. Last month, a bomb lodged in a garbage chute on the fourth floor of an apartment building exploded with such force that it severely wounded a woman taking out the trash on the 11th floor.
On the evening of July 20, three gunmen coolly carried out a hit against the assistant manager of a cafe on Malaya Bronnaya Street, after which they stopped at a sidewalk kiosk where, the police said, they had earlier been treated rudely, and killed the saleswoman and a bystander.
Crime has risen dramatically in Russia over the last two years, as the controls of the totalitarian state have fallen away and before the certainties of a law-abiding society have emerged to take their place. Apartment break-ins, car thefts and muggings, once unheard of, have become commonplace, to the shock and horror of a citizenry used to a calmer, more predictable life.
But in recent months the crime wave has taken on a new dimension. It is not only more violent, but it is also more professional and more pervasive, reaching deep into the heart of the Government and leading banks. It has also begun to blight development of private businesses because entrepreneurs are being frightened away.
The number of killings in Moscow has gone up sharply: there were 704 in the first seven months of this year, up from 462 in the similar period last year. Moscow is still lagging behind American levels of murder and violence; there were 1,995 killings in New York last year, a city roughly comparable in size to Moscow.
 
Crime Invades Business
 Many Russian and Western business executives say the violence is only part of the picture, and not necessarily the most frightening part. They say crime and business have become interwoven in Russia to an alarming degree, starting with racketeering on the street level and ending with vast bribe-taking on the official level.
According to one recent official estimate, organized crime has managed to siphon off about $500 million from the Russian economy through embezzlement, smuggling and bank fraud.
"The Moscow underworld is becoming more and more professional, and is merging, sometimes by legitimate means, with highly placed state and especially commercial spheres," said Yuri Shchekochikhin, a journalist for the weekly Literaturnaya Gazeta who has written extensively on crime.
Some of Moscow's best-known business executives, once hailed as the standard-bearers of a new era, are now fugitives, sought by the Russian police and prosecutors for defrauding the state or their partners, or both.
Stories of extortion are legion. An officer at a new club for young business and political leaders was approached with a proposal for a "mutually beneficial arrangement" by a gang that warned that they knew not only who the members were but also how much they had in their bank accounts.
 
'Scared to Go Into Business'
 "The story about the mafia is not just about crime, it's about economics," a Western diplomat said recently. "There are a lot of people today who are just plain scared to go into business."
After the slaying of a local director of Inkombank, one of the largest commercial banks in Russia, last month in St. Petersburg, a group of bankers wrote to President Boris N. Yeltsin asking for protection against against what they described as a concerted attempt to undermine the banks.
"A situation has arisen where all of society and new financial and entrepreneurial institutions have become the target of a well-organized, well-equipped bandits," Sergei Yegorov, president of Association of Russian Banks, said in the letter. There have been 11 attacks, some fatal, against bankers since December 1992.
"Mafia" is the word most Russians would use to attribute the wave of killings, and the police do not disagree, except to note that there are dozens, even hundreds, of competing gangs, each trying to carve out a piece of illegal activity.
 
Mark of Flashiness
 Moscow's shadier characters are not hard to spot. They strut through the glitzy bars and casinos in wide-shouldered suits, surrounded by bodyguards and women in short Lycra suits. They tend to drive in expensive Western limousines, with cars full of bodyguards close behind.
"This is their hour," a disgusted Muscovite said, watching a sleek Mercedes with an escort car in tow flash through a red light. "They have waited this long to live this way, they don't care if they die doing it."
In one interview, a top Russian police official said there were as many as 3,000 gangs operating in Russia, of which 150 have evolved into well-organized fraternities. In Moscow, the police have identified 9 or 10 large gangs, most with affiliations to other regions of Russia. Of these, perhaps the most notorious are the Chechens, whose small republic of Chechnya has been trying to secede from the Russian Federation.
Frustrated by crimes committed by out-of-towners, the Moscow police have recently called for a visa system that would limit access to Moscow by citizens of former Soviet republics. "We get the impression that Moscow has become a sub-branch of Azerbaijan or Armenia," Vasily Kuptsov, deputy head of Moscow's police investigation department, said at a recent news conference. "People feel they are beyond the law."
The social breakdown that accompanied the collapse of the Soviet Union has added to the sense of lawlessness.
 
'Like Chicago in 1930's'
 "This country is going from Communism to recklessness overnight," said Jeffrey Zeiger, of Trenton, who owns two restaurants in Moscow. "Now there is a total disregard for law and order. Russian entrepreneurs are into flashiness, having fancy cars, wearing fancy clothes. Maybe it is related to all the American films: the whole atmosphere is like back in Chicago in the 1930's."
Mr. Zeiger, who in 1989 became the first American to open a restaurant in Moscow, has had first-hand experience with Moscow's gangland. His Russian partner, Sergei Goryachev, 59, a former mayor of the Lenin district, was shot in the head at 10 A.M. on July 30, as he was opening his garage door in central Moscow.
The comparison to Al Capone's Chicago was echoed this week by a top official from the Federal Bureau of Investigation who is in Moscow to establish cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The official, Jim Moody, head of the F.B.I.'s organized-crime division, said he envied the Russian police their chance to get an early crack at organized crime, when the various gangs were still engaged in primitive turf battles.
"Organized crime is a way to establish a monopoly of criminal activity in certain areas," said Mr. Moody, who added that Moscow today reminded him of New York in the 1920's and 30's. "Once this process of survival of the fittest ends, then you have the organized crime groups evolving into more sophisticated activity," he said.
Asked at a news conference to list the most lucrative activities of organized crime, Mikhail S. Yegorov, First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, cited financial operations, from money laundering to faked bank transfers to debt collection, followed by the brisk trade in automobiles, mostly the importing of stolen cars from Western Europe. Trafficking in narcotics has become big business, though not on anything close to the scale in the United States.
As the recent spate of incidents in Moscow indicate, Russia's new criminal class is well armed, a legacy that law enforcement officials attribute to the extensive trafficking in Soviet Army machine guns, grenade launchers and other weapons. "Our main task right now," Mr. Yegorov said, "is to get control of these weapons."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Since the fall of Communism in Russia, Moscow's gangsters have become more brazen in their brutality and law-breaking. Nothing seems to faze them, not the police, not public outrage, not even broad daylight. In February, special armed police officers arrested suspected criminals. (Reuters) (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ORGANIZED CRIME; BRIBERY; BANKS AND BANKING; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS SHOOTINGS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BRIBERY (88%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); ROBBERY (78%); MURDER (78%); VEHICLE THEFT (78%); TRENDS (77%); ETHICS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); SMUGGLING (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EMBEZZLEMENT (64%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (61%); BUSINESS ETHICS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



413 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 2453 words

HEADLINE: A History of Pollution in Mexico Casts Clouds Over Trade Accord

SERIES: A Partner's Hurdles: Mexico Faces Free Trade -- Second of two articles.

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, Aug. 14

 BODY:
With mounds of lead waste smoldering at an abandoned battery-recycling plant outside town, toxic garbage piling up at the local dumps and industrial discharges flowing untreated into rivers and sewers, a new environmental enforcement agency opened offices here last fall promising to crack down as never before.
Ramiro Zaragoza, the young lawyer in charge, hired 33 inspectors, outfitted them in green windbreakers and began training them to take on the malfeasants. In Mexico City, officials announced a new dawn in the country's fight against pollution, new proof that if Mexico was allowed to join Canada and the United States in the North American Free Trade Agreement it would not sacrifice its environment to attract business across the border.
 
Toxic Legacy of Decades
 But in Tijuana it was not that easy. Other agencies would not lend their files on the city's 700 industrial plants, officials in and outside the enforcement office say. Laboratory studies could not be done for lack of equipment or supplies. Then, for five months and without explanation, paychecks did not arrive. Mr. Zaragoza says he is as determined as ever, but only five of his inspectors are still on the job.
"We've been bluffing," he said, sitting behind his desk and doing his best to smile. "If they knew how few people we had, they would just laugh at us."
Faced with the toxic legacy of four decades of almost unregulated industrialization and desperate to win approval for the pending trade agreement, Mexico has taken extraordinary measures in the last few years to strengthen its environmental controls.
On Friday, Mexico, Canada and the United States also announced supplemental accords intended to insure the enforcement of Mexican labor and environmental standards under the agreement, which would eliminate most barriers to trade and investment among the three countries.
Supporters of the trade pact say the side accords will force compliance by investing three-nation labor and environment commissions with the power to impose fines and trade sanctions as penalties of last resort against Mexican violators. The proposed arbitration process is complicated and long, however, and many environmentalists emphasize that it will ultimately be up to the Mexican Government to see that its goal of rapid economic development for the country's 84 million people does not come at an enormous environmental cost.
 
The Problem Is Huge
 But despite hundreds of new inspectors, millions of dollars in environmental projects and many speeches by President Carlos Salinas de Gortari declaring Mexico's commitment to protecting the environment, even some in the Government acknowledge that the country has only started, somewhat haltingly, to confront a problem of staggering proportions.
"We have just begun to scratch the surface of what needs to be done," said the director of the National Institute of Ecology, Sergio Reyes Lujan.
Mexican ecological laws are viewed by many environmentalists as good and getting better. But a close look at Government environmental programs suggests that those laws are being undermined for reasons that may persist despite the new threat of trade sanctions.
While new environmental inspectors have fanned out across Mexico, their work continues to be hampered by insufficient and uncertain resources, political considerations and, at least occasionally, by corruption. Where the Government has cracked down on polluting industries, it has barely started to follow up with alternatives for those put out of business or incentives for steady compliance.
 
Glaring Lack of Services
 Strategies to limit the use of hazardous materials or otherwise prevent pollution are almost unheard of. And the public disclosure of information about companies' environmental practices is almost unimaginable.
As officials evoke images of a vast consumer market with boundless opportunities for investment, Mexico's lack of basic environmental services is glaring: in the Valley of Mexico, home to the capital and some 16 million people, almost nine-tenths of the waste water still goes untreated, according to Government figures. For some 60,000 industrial companies, there is a single toxic-waste landfill. There are no commercial incinerators for toxic wastes.
Mr. Reyes, a blunt-spoken physicist who has led Mexico's environmental efforts since 1986, can recall an agency that performed no inspections, did not even measure the air in Mexico City and got its first computer when he borrowed it from his 21-year-old son. He is astonished by "the rate of change," a phrase that has become his public mantra.
 
The Border
The Boom Is Clear, So's the Blight
 Public debate in the United States is being driven largely by the experience of the border, where Government promises of a better tomorrow have a long, bitter past. Here, the dangers have already been vivid for two decades, as Mexico has drawn hundreds of foreign-owned industrial plants, called maquiladoras, with tariff, tax and other incentives.
In Ciudad Juarez, the problems are as plain as the great brown banks of smog that drift across the Rio Grande into El Paso, Tex. Elsewhere, they are sometimes less visible but more frightening: In Brownsville, Tex., an inexplicably high incidence of babies who are delivered stillborn without brains has led people to suspect contamination from industries just across the border in Matamoros, where the same phenomenon has appeared.
One fear that American environmentalists draw from the industrial boom along the border is that freer trade will mean more traffic, more industry and thus more pollution. But that focus underscores how little the accord's potential impact has been studied and how narrowly it has been seen.
Some economists believe that the crush of industry along the border could actually diminish under the agreement. But scant attention has been paid to the possible environmental effects on the Mexican interior of new activity in areas like agriculture, mining and forestry.
The new "U.S.A.-style" dry-cleaning outlets popping up around Mexico City hint at the vast range of problems. Unlike American dry cleaners, which are closely monitored by the Environmental Protection Agency, nearly all the Mexican operations dump their hazardous wastes in the trash, a franchise manager, Alberto Shamosh, said. He told of searching for months and then paying dearly to have a waste company from Guadalajara take away his chemical sludge.
Upholding the demands of some American environmental groups for a fuller accounting of the trade agreement's effects, a Federal judge ordered the Clinton Administration last month to provide a complete environmental impact assessment. The Administration has appealed the decision, which could delay carrying out the pact well beyond Jan. 1, when it is supposed to take effect. A ruling on the appeal is expected in late September.
Hoping to dispel pressure for such a study, the Bush Administration released a report last year dismissing the other major fear of American environmentalists: that a trade agreement might turn Mexico into a haven for industries trying to escape tougher environmental regulations to the north.
Environmental Protection Agency officials acknowledge that some furniture manufacturers, automobile paint shops and other businesses have already moved to Mexico for just this reason. They insist, though, that cheaper labor and lower environmental-regulation costs might defray the expense of relocation only for a tiny handful of industries that could be easily controlled.
 
The Newcomers
Laws Are Flouted, Reforms Touted
 Tijuana is not convinced.
"They have come here from all over, saying they are going to invest, that they are going to help us," said Maurilio Sanchez, a community organizer in Ejido Chilpancingo, a dusty sprawl of tarpaper and brick that sits just below a big maquiladora park on the city's outskirts. "But when it comes to complying with the ecological laws, they say they cannot speak Spanish."
For the most part, Mr. Sanchez said, the authorities ignore him. But they have been paying more attention since March 8, when sewer openings in the neighborhood exploded and he led a clutch of firemen and inspectors to a waste recycling business in the industrial park.
Just as the posse arrived, the company's owner and two workers were pouring barrels of toxic chemicals down a sewer drain. Investigators concluded that they had been doing so for years.
By law, the foreign-owned plants are obliged to ship their hazardous wastes back out of Mexico for disposal. In practice, officials say, there is a flourishing traffic in waste-dumping. A United States Congressional study last year found that fewer than one-third of the plants even reported on their wastes as required and that the reports went virtually unchecked.
Compared with even two years ago, Mexican officials assert, their ability to track and control such problems has taken a giant leap forward.
At one point in 1991, according to Government figures, the country's environmental agency had seven inspectors assigned to 15,000 industries in Mexico City. Under the new agency set up last fall, the office of the Attorney General for Environmental Protection, inspections officially jumped from 1,380 in all of 1989 to 6,937 in the first four months of this year.
While many environmentalists consider those figures suspect, there is no dispute that tens of millions of dollars have been committed to new sewage treatment plants, new landfills, new air-quality monitoring programs. More than 200 new environmental regulations are being written or rewritten with the help of international consultants.
 
The Inspectors
Paltry Resources (And No Paycheck)
 In their campaign to push the trade accord through the American Congress this fall, Mexican and American officials have promised to channel billions more dollars to clean up both sides of the 2,000-mile border. And World Bank officials say they will lend as much as $600 million to support Mexico's environmental projects and agencies over the next several years.
But to follow two conscientious young federal inspectors on their rounds is to wonder about the effectiveness of the new force.
Puttering up Tijuana's hills in a Volkswagen bug, the inspectors -- Aidee Solano, clad in her green windbreaker and jeans, and Carlos Padilla, clad in just the jeans -- make their way to Bronzart S.A., a maker of bronze statuettes that moved in eight months ago from Southern California.
They tell the plant manager they simply want to take a look around, see the manufacturing process, check on the disposal of wastes.
"Just like in Los Angeles," he says, "right?"
But after that welcome comparison, the manager indicates that he expected things to be a little different. Unlike in California, he has not bothered to clean out his waste water or have it treated. He is not sure what to do with the refuse from his smelting operation, he says, so it is piled up in a big mound behind the plant.
Shouting over the roar of machines, Miss Solano, who studied biology in college, questions a supervisor about the chemicals in the big drums. She asks for and receives information on each, but does not bother with samples; there is no laboratory to perform the analysis.
After five months without a paycheck, it seems heroic that the inspectors show up for work at all. In similar straits, two inspectors in the Ciudad Juarez office were recently dismissed after complaints that they unsuccessfully solicited big bribes at a local engine plant.
The head of the Juarez office was dismissed as well. But according to some Mexican and American environmental officials who spoke on condition of anonymity, his more serious failing may have been to push hard for inspections against the wishes of superiors afraid of angering local businessmen on the eve of a national presidential campaign.
Government officials denied that charge. They do not dispute, however, that the minister in charge of development programs and environmental affairs, Luis Donaldo Colosio, is considered a leading contender for the governing party's nomination and many of his subordinates campaign intensely, if quietly, on his behalf.
 
The Prospects
Some Pray the Pact Will Bring Converts
 Much as they have complained about the shortcomings of Mexican enforcement, many environmentalists acknowledge that more rigorous inspection of manufacturing plants is only one of the needed improvements in the country's environmental controls. "The question is whether, when the factories reopen, anything has really changed," J. Michael McCloskey, chairman of the Sierra Club, said in an interview in Washington.
Among the statistics that Salinas Administration officials routinely hand out, there is no count of follow-up inspections. Efforts are under way to make industries pay for their own waste treatment, and in what supporters of the trade agreement hail as a sign of the environmental cooperation it will encourage, Mexican officials and Los Angeles County prosecutors in June forced an American company to pay $2.5 million to clean up lead wastes from the battery-recycling plant it operated outside Tijuana.
But for now, pollution-prevention efforts are almost nonexistent, and incentive-based solutions to specific pollution problems are just getting off the drawing board.
In a 1991 study often quoted by Mexican officials, two Princeton University economists, Gene M. Grossman and Alan B. Krueger, conclude that "economic growth tends to alleviate pollution problems once a country's per capita income reaches about $4,000 to $5,000" -- Mexico's level now.
To many Mexican and American environmentalists, the study, prepared for a conference sponsored by the Mexican trade ministry, smacks of wishful thinking. But if changing attitudes is more complex a matter than the average amount of money in people's pockets, more and more American environmentalists have come to support the trade pact on the ground that it might strengthen Mexicans' environmental awareness along with their economy.
Just across from El Paso, where the pressure is building for binational solutions to the air-pollution problem, a brickmaker in Ciudad Juarez, Pedro Gonzalez, lent support for this thesis. He was describing the Government's insistence that he stop burning tires and sawdust in his kiln and start burning propane gas.
"The truth is, all of this is happening because the gabachos are pressuring us," he said of the move toward cleaner fuels, using slang for Americans. "But we have families, too. The owners may not care. But we have to live here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: After four decades of almost unregulated industrialization, Mexico, desperate to win approval for the pending trade agreement, is trying without much success to strengthen its environmental controls. More than 300 drums of toxic and industrial wastes were found last year near Ciudad Juarez, just miles from the Texas border, where pigs that would later be slaughtered for food were running loose. (Richard Perry); The lake behind Maria Trinidad Navarro's home, at the bottom of a hill in the Mother Teresa of Calcutta neighborhood of Tijuana, has been contaminated with waste from some of the more than 130 industrial plants at the top of the hill. Residents have to buy their drinking water from trucks. (Roberto Cordova for The New York Times) (pg. A7)
 
Graph: "Shoring Up Nature" tracks annual numbers of Mexico's environmental protection workers, inspections, and environmental reviews since 1989. (Source: Mexican Government)(pg. A7)
 
Map of northern Mexico and the southwestern United States shows the location of Tijuana. (pg. A7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); INDIA (58%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (50%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; CANADA; UNITED STATES MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); INDIA (58%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; ENVIRONMENT; SURVEYS AND SERIES; TREATIES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; FINES (PENALTIES) ; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); CITIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); APPROVALS (72%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (69%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (57%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM RICK PERRY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



414 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Sinks Against Yen

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, Aug. 16

 BODY:
The dollar continued to plummet today, heading toward a level of 100 yen to the dollar.
In late trading here, the dollar was quoted at 101.35 yen, down 1.05 yen from late Friday's quote of 102.40 in Tokyo and down from 101.85 yen in New York late Friday. 
 The yen began trading this morning at a new record of 101.57 to the dollar and continued to climb, leading traders to say that they expect the yen will become equal to 1 cent this week.
The Bank of Japan intervened repeatedly in the market today, buying the United States currency. But the central bank's effort failed to halt the decline of the dollar in part because traders believed that the United States and Europe would favor a stronger yen to help reduce their gaping trade deficits with Japan.
The yen's appreciation threatens to hurt Japan's automobile and electronics companies, whose export prices would become less competitive as a result. Fears that the yen's strength would hurt the economy contributed to a drop in Tokyo stock prices this morning.
Stocks recovered in the afternoon. The Nikkei index of 225 issues closed up 156.32 points, or nearly eight-tenths of a percent, at 20,901.49.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (91%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (91%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); ELECTRONICS (69%); EXPORT PRICES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



415 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: THE POPE IN AMERICA;
Pope Edits His Most Critical Language to End Visit on Positive Note

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DENVER, Aug. 15

 BODY:
On the last day of his stay in the United States, Pope John Paul II scaled back criticism of American moral values, apparently seeking to recast the image of his visit as that of a pastor to his flock rather than a chastising prophet of decline.
Addressing the final Mass of his four-day visit, the pontiff departed from the prepared text of a speech to nearly 400,000 worshipers at Cherry Creek State Park, deleting emotive language about abortion and other "horrible crimes against humanity" and skipping a passage that spoke of America's "confusion about what is right and what is wrong." 
 The Pope also deleted some emotive language from a speech to young people at a vigil on Saturday night, although the prepared text of his remarks endures as the Vatican's official record of the remarks. Today's omissions were far more extensive, suggesting that he wished to strike a positive note as he left the United States.
The impact of the deletions was to focus attention on the Pope's message to young people, whom he urged to "go out into the streets and public places" to campaign for moral revival.
"You must feel the full urgency of the task," the pontiff said. "Woe to you if you do not succeed in defending life."
 
Thousands Fall Ill
 One effect of the omissions was to shorten the Pope's speech, possibly reflecting his concern for his audience; with temperatures in the mid-80's, many people suffered dehydration and heat exhaustion. In addition, Denver's high altitude and dust triggered respiratory problems and asthma attacks. A 60-year-old man died of a heart attack and at least 18,000 people sought medical help during a 14-mile pilgrimage to the Mass site on Saturday, the prayer vigil Saturday night and today's Mass, officials said.
Since the Pope arrived here on Thursday to mark the Roman Catholic Church's World Youth Day, the pontiff has returned insistently to what he evidently regards as central themes for contemplation by young Catholics: the protection of life from conception until natural death, urban violence fueled by the media and the corrosion of moral values.
At the same, though, he has sought to place his opposition to abortion and euthanasia in the context of what he sees as a broader assault on human life.
"In our own century, the 'culture of death' has assumed a social and institutional form of legality to justify the most horrible crimes against humanity: genocide, 'final solutions', 'ethnic cleansing' and the massive 'taking of human beings even before they are born or before they reach the natural point of death,' " he said in one passage omitted from today's speech.
Moreover, he sought today to advance a view of the challenges to human life beyond those like abortion that generally stir controversy. "The family especially is under attack. And the sacred character of human life denied," he told the worshipers. "Naturally, the weakest members of society are the most at risk: the unborn, children, the sick, the handicapped, the old, the poor and unemployed, the immigrant and refugee, the South of the world."
Just as significant, he refrained from repeating earlier criticism of what he depicts as a dangerous trend in American thinking away from the concept that anything may be "considered intrinsically good and universally binding."
"When the Founding Fathers of this great nation enshrined certain inalienable rights in the Constitution, they did so because they recognized the existence of a law -- a series of rights and duties -- engraved by the Creator on each person's heart and conscience," one of the deleted passages said.
"In much of contemporary thinking, any reference to a law guaranteed by the Creator is absent," it went on. "Vast sectors of society are confused about what is right and what is wrong, and are at the mercy of those with the power to create opinion and impose it on others."
 
Catholic Woodstock
 The Pope's jubilant reception among some 160,000 young people here has visibly inspired him, particularly at the prayer vigil in Cherry Creek State Park on Saturday night that reinforced the occasion's nickname among older people who remember the 1969 rock concert -- the Catholic Woodstock.
But his message has been a somber rejection of the permissiveness the original Woodstock implied for a generation's sexual morality, bringing the pontiff into direct conflict not only with the Clinton Administration's abortion-rights policy but also with the practices of many American Catholics who disregard the church's teachings on artificial birth control.
Even in today's shortened speech he spoke of an "apocalyptic combat" between "the culture of death" and "the culture of life," and said, "Today, that struggle has become increasingly direct."
His utterances have received differing interpretations among Catholics, but the Pope left no doubt that, as when he met President Clinton on his arrival here on Thursday, he viewed abortion and euthanasia as central issues in a world where "death battles life."
Just before he left for Rome, the Pontiff once agin repeated his opposition to abortion. In a brief departure address at Stapleton International Airport with Vice President Al Gore, he defined the "culture of life" broadly as "respect for nature and protection of God's work of creation" as well as "service to the underprivileged, the poor and the oppressed." But, he went on, "In a special way, it means respect for human life from the first moment of conception to its natural end."
The Pope spoke moments after holding a 25-minute private meeting with Mr. Gore at the airport.
Earlier today, in a visit at the Mount St. Vincent Home for emotionally disturbed children, he said, "May God give us hearts large enough to embrace all children everywhere, and arms strong enough to protect them and support them."
On his final day in Denver, the pontiff maintained a brisk schedule, presiding over the Mass at the park, having lunch with senior clerics, talking to representatives of America's 300,000 Vietnamese Catholics and visiting the children at the Mount St. Vincent Home.
 
Aiming for the Young
 His program included a period of rest in the afternoon that reflected a perceptible slowing of pace since the early days of his 15-year papacy.
While insisting that the Pope's health is robust after surgery last year to remove a large colon tumor, his aides have acknowledged that he has been fatigued by the journey. Today, as he spoke at the open-air Mass, the Pope, 73, seemed relaxed after a night's rest.
Throughout the Pope's stay, his message has been meant to inspire what he sees as a generation of young people threatened with moral drift even as it represents the future leaders and evangelists of the Catholic Church.
"At this stage of history, the liberating of the Gospel of Life has been put into your hands. And the mission of proclaiming it to the ends of the earth is now passing to your generation," he said.
"Do not be afraid to go out into the streets and into public places like the first apostles who preached Christ and the good news of salvation in the squares of cities, towns and villages. This is not time to be ashamed of the Gospel. It is the time to be proud of the Gospel. It is time to preach it from the rooftops."
The Pope also met with representatives of America's Vietnamese Catholics and used the occasion to evoke the plight of Vietnam's seven million Catholics, whose activities have long been restricted by communist rulers. His words, he said, were being relayed to Vietnam by a radio link.
"To all of you I make this appeal: do not forget the church in Vietnam," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pope John Paul II greeting supporters as he made his way to the altar after his arrival yesterday at Cherry Creek State Park in Denver. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HOLY SEE (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DENVER (COLO); UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); HOLY SEE (79%); COLORADO, USA (94%); DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); ABORTION (89%); DEATHS (86%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (75%); TRENDS (72%); STATE PARKS (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (65%); HEAT STRESS DISORDERS (64%); ASTHMA (63%); WAR & CONFLICT (60%); GENOCIDE (56%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; POPE (JOHN PAUL II) POPE JOHN PAUL II (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



416 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The Federal Government is establishing a program guaranteeing free vaccine for millions of poor or uninsured children. Under the program, to which some drug companies have objected, the Government will buy the vaccine at a discount and distribute it at no charge to participating doctors. [Page A1.]
The President plans to appeal for bipartisan cooperation on health care from the nation's governors. [A14.] Republicans in Congress are expected to be far less focused in their opposition to the health care plan than they were to proposals in the budget package. [A14.] 
 The acquittal of Robert A. Altman of all criminal charges by a New York jury was a stinging defeat for the Manhattan District Attorney. But lawyers familiar with the case said it was a legal defeat that might have been avoided if prosecutors had sought a much narrower indictment. [A1.]
The Federal Reserve panel that sets short-term interest rates will meet Tuesday for the first time since the Clinton budget was approved. Despite fear in some quarters that higher taxes and spending restraint will crimp growth, the Federal Open Market Committee is unlikely to provide easier money for the tightened fiscal policy, something the Bush Administration got in 1990. [D1.]
 
International
Mexico has taken extraordinary measures to strengthen environmental controls. But despite hundreds of new inspectors, millions of dollars in projects and many speeches, even Government officials acknowledge that the country has only haltingly started to confront a problem of staggering proportions. [A1.]
Brazil is suddenly dismantling import barriers dating back to the 1960's. U.S. companies are expected to benefit. [D1.]
 
Companies
A.T.& T. has set the stage for a confrontation with Apple and other companies in the market for small machines that recognize handwriting. It will increase its investment in the Go Corporation, the leader in pen-computing software, and turn it into a subsidiary of Eo, which makes a small wireless communicator. [D1.]
The investment bankers who will sell shares of Donna Karan to the public are likely to have an easy day's work. But despite confidence-inspiring numbers and a widely recognized franchise, the company and its investors will be venturing into unknown territory. News Analysis. [D1.]
McDonald's has been quietly opening restaurants in Wal-Mart stores in an experiment to determine the feasibility of joint operations by the two giants. [D1.]
 
The Media Business
Electronic newspapers are arriving on personal computer screens across the country. The newest of these offer a "read more about it" assortment of background material and past articles. [A1.] Newspaper executives say an evolution has begun toward a handful of national networks that will offer "brand name" services in local areas. [D6.]
A weekly television program represents the mating of the game show and the home-shopping broadcast. [D6.]
Some public TV programs are turning to syndication as a way to make it through difficult economic times. Television. [D7.]
A newborn ad agency has come into the world as a spinoff of DDB Needham's flagship office. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
 
Today's Columns
Perseptive Biosystems has won a patent for a tool to purify molecules that it says shaves hours from the usual method. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. [D2.]
Shares of T<2> Medical collapsed after the company said an audit had found "irregularities and errors" in its books. But not all investors took it on the chin; insiders had been filing to sell shares all year. Kurt Eichenwald: Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (83%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); JURY TRIALS (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); APPROVALS (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); ACQUITTAL (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); IMPORT CONTROLS (65%); IMPORT TRADE (65%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (63%); INVESTMENT BANKING (62%); RESTAURANTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (53%); FRANCHISORS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



417 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Despite New Budget, Fed Is Unlikely to Ease

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 13

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve's 12-member group that sets short-term interest rates will meet on Tuesday for the first time since Congress passed the President's budget. But despite fears that higher taxes and spending restraint will crimp economic growth, the committee is not likely to provide the kind of quid pro quo -- easier money for tighter fiscal policy -- that the Bush Administration received in the fall of 1990.
Back then, the Fed lowered rates a couple of days after the budget passed -- after promising ahead of time that it would do so. Now, the widespread expectation is that when the monetary-policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, meets on Tuesday, it will do nothing. 
 The Fed's 1990 action stirred resentment among some in its ranks because it looked like a political deal. This time, officials inside the Fed made it clear before the budget vote that they would not lower rates simply because a deficit-cutting budget had passed. And while the plan may dampen the economy, the Fed would wait to see evidence of weakness -- which most Fed officials expect to be modest -- before acting.
Some economists and executives had hoped for an extra measure of monetary stimulus. But the Clinton Administration, whose popularity has suffered because of the economy's so-so performance, is not complaining. In fact, the Administration has made it clear that it would be satisfied if the Fed merely refrained from raising rates until the economy picked up.
"They're doing what we want them to do on short-term rates, and we're doing what they want us to do about the deficit," said Alan Blinder, a member of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, alluding to the rate the Fed charges for overnight loans. "And as long as we're doing what the other wants, things will be hunky-dory."
A flare-up in inflation could prompt the Fed to raise rates sooner than the Administration would like. But for now, with gold prices dropping, bond yields at their lowest levels in 20 years, and predictions that the higher taxes will dampen growth, Fed officials see no reason to tighten. And with growth in most Fed districts palpable, if not perky, they do not see any reason to loosen either. The latest economic reports show that prices at the producer level are falling and consumer spending is growing only modestly.
As one official of the central bank said, the August meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the group that sets targets for the short-term interest rate under the Fed's direct control, could well prove "duller than usual."
If that is the case, the Clinton Administration may enjoy a continuing honeymoon with the Fed -- something striking to anyone who remembers the rancor and outright rudeness between the Fed and the Treasury in the last year of the Bush Administration.
Then, Mr. Greenspan and Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, once friends, stopped meeting each week. These days, Mr. Greenspan not only has breakfast with Treasury Secretary LLoyd Bentsen for an hour or an hour and half each week, usually on Thursdays, but the two play tennis together.
The relationships extend down through the ranks. The Treasury and the Fed have started to pool research and they have worked closely on big projects, such as one to encourage banks to lend more to small businesses, Frank N. Newman, Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance, said.
 
Tennis Game Praised
 And while the Bush White House sounded increasingly short-tempered in public about what it regarded as the Fed's stingy response to the 1990 budget deal, the Clinton Administration has mostly had only the nicest things to say about the Fed, its monetary policy and its Republican chairman.
Secretary Bentsen even praised his new partner's tennis game on Monday, calling him "a good, hard competitor," while tactfully refusing to divulge who won the last match.
But if it seems strange that Mr. Greenspan may have a warmer relationship with the Democratic Administration than with the Republicans who reappointed him, the reasons for the phenomenon have as much to do with today's different economic circumstances as with the fact that Mr. Greenspan apparently hit it off with the President and that most of the Administration's economic appointments -- Wall Streeters and neo-liberal academic economists -- are not exactly inflation doves.
For one thing, the economy, which was stumbling into recession at the time of the 1990 budget deal, is in a modest recovery now. Short-term interest rates -- the only ones that the Fed can influence more or less directly -- are already very low, all but negligible after expected inflation.
 
Risk of Inflation Run-Up
 Fed officials worry that pushing them down further would risk creating an inflationary run-up in the prices of stocks and other financial assets. Administration officials see little payoff in terms of economic growth -- beyond what is still coming from past easings -- from further declines.
"Our focus is much more on the longer end of the market than on the short end of the market," said Alicia Munnell, the assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury. Long-term interest rates will stay low only if the markets are confident that the Fed will keep a firm hand on inflation.
Today's cordiality also reflects the fact that, in some very broad sense, the Clinton economics team and the Fed governors and regional bank presidents agree that low long-term rates will provide the best stimulus to the economy, especially since Washington does not have the money to spend freely on public works, afford a tax cut, or convince an unpopular government in Germany or, so far, the new one in Japan to stimulate their economies aggressively.
But, in a very real way, the reason the relationship remains so amiable is that a 60-something Fed chairman has succeeded in lowering the expectations of an Administration full of 40-something technocrats. In the process, Mr. Greenspan, along with his colleagues, has also reassured the financial markets, fended off Congress and the lobbyists and won a bit of political breathing room.
 
Shifting the Debate
 "It's clear," said Louis Crandall, the chief economist at R. H. Wrightson & Associates Inc., "that the Fed has successfully shifted the grounds of debate from the question of whether or not the Fed should ease in response to the budget agreement to one of whether or not the Fed has to tighten in response to inflationary pressures."
During the spring, some members of the Open Market Committee, including the chairman, were worried that investors, businesses and consumers were taking it for granted that inflation was going to speed up, an expectation that could, as it had in the past, become self-fulfilling prophecy.
At the meeting in May, Mr. Greenspan's solution -- and a sign that like other powerful Federal Reserve chairmen, he is a master at public relations -- was to ask the committee for permission to tighten before the next meeting by promising not to do so without consulting them. The step was highly unusual and suggested to some Fed-watchers that the committee did not necessarily expect to be in a position of having to tighten over the summer.
The brief inflation scare this spring has passed, even though the outlook on that score is less favorable than the Fed had hoped for late last year. But the Administration, with its eye more on the credit markets than on the Fed, has not been calling for an easing interest rates to compensate for the expected dent in growth from deficit-cutting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (75%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BOND MARKETS (69%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



418 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Riverboat Is Queen as Town Hitches Ride Back to Better Times

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, L.I., Aug. 13

 BODY:
For years, this town at the junction of Long Island's eastern forks has ignored the Peconic River as it flows past sparsely filled Main Street parking lots.
Now, to change the fortunes of an economically distressed downtown where merchants complain about loiterers and vacant stores, the town is turning back to the river and finding salvation in a Mississippi-style riverboat. 
 Ever since cruises on the Peconic River Lady began Memorial Day weekend, the 85-foot paddlewheeler, which can carry 149 passengers, has been booked at or near capacity for excursions down the river and into Flanders Bay and Great Peconic Bay. Its owners, six partners who invested $1 million in what they said was a riverboat gamble, are so delighted they plan to build a second riverboat for use in 1994.
 
Other Signs of Renewal
 "I guess the fact that we want another vessel speaks for itself," said one partner, Patricia M. Blake, a lawyer from Center Moriches and president of Peconic River Cruisers Inc.
The parking lots are suddenly filling up, and business owners and local officials are feeling that Riverhead, with a population of 23,275, could become another Mystic, Conn., with its swarms of tourists.
The success of the paddlewheeler is not the only hopeful sign in this community, whose residents have among the lowest mean incomes on Long Island, but which once was a shopping hub with a rich history. By some accounts, Mark Twain once visited near the turn of the century.
The Okeanos Ocean Research Foundation plans to build a $20 million aquarium on riverfront property. When it opens in 1995, foundation officials said, the aquarium will be a refuge for stranded marine life, and will have exhibitions to rival the aquarium in Mystic.
Town zoning to encourage factory outlets has attracted a company that plans to build a 305,000-square-foot outlet center at the edge of town, where the Long Island Expressway ends.
And a group of local business people have formed a corporation to operate trolley cars modeled after ones that ran in Cincinnati at the turn of the century. They would connect downtown to the outlet center and to a water theme park now near the outlet property called Splish Splash.
"We want the people downtown, but not the cars," said Andrea H. Lohneiss, the town's director of community development, who like many others believes Riverhead is on the verge of a turnaround. She cited estimates that as many as six million people would visit the factory outlet center each year.
Another plan is in the works to repair Steam Locomotive 39, which was sidelined at the Long Island Rail Road station here. A local group is renewing plans to put No. 39 into service for tourist trips down the North Fork to Greenport. Others are talking of a maritime museum, while the East End Arts Council wants to move across Main Street to the Suffolk Theater, a boarded up, Art Deco-style movie house that the council wants to make a cultural center.
These days, though, the attention is focused on the Peconic River Lady. Built in Freeport, Fla., last winter to roughly replicate the old paddlewheelers of the Mississippi, the Peconic River Lady has lowered black stacks whose yellow crowns will fit beneath the bridge on Route 105, which spans the river. The paddle turns, but propulsion comes from twin inboard engines. For its maiden voyage, the vessel chugged at top speed of 7 knots from Florida to its berth here.
As Capt. Charles J. Smith navigates a mile and a half of river and weaves past the shoals and sandbars of the bays, passengers can gaze at wetlands and glimpse osprey, swans,cranes and daring muskrats known to cut right across the bow, all in a setting the Nature Conservancy has called one of the last great places in the Western Hemisphere.
"People who have lived here for 30 years say they never knew how beautiful it is," said Monique J. Gablenz, the paddleboat's general manager. Extra tours, she said, have been added to accommodate the crush of customers for the three-hour tours, with costs beginning at $15. There is generally some form of musical entertainment on each trip.
At 11:30 A.M. today, there was not a seat to be found on either deck of the Peconic Lady as Caroline Bilunas, an 18-year-old deckhand from Jamesport, wearing white nautical garb, cast off from the dock.
As long ago as the mid-1970's, consultants hired by the town expressed astonishment that Riverhead offered no view from the river but the box-cluttered back doors of Main Street stores. Since then, landscaping, benches and flagpoles have been added, and lawns along the river are neatly tended.
"We have a beautiful river, and not too many towns have that," said James Dreeben, the owner of the Peconic Paddler, where canoes and kayaks have been rented out at a brisk pace this season. "Now we can brag about it."

GRAPHIC: Map of Suffolk showing location of Riverhead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RIVERHEAD (NY); PECONIC RIVER UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EXCURSION AND SIGHTSEEING BOATS; PECONIC RIVER LADY (SIGHTSEEING BOAT) MARINE VESSELS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CRUISES (78%); WATER PARKS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRAINS (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); TRENDS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (66%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (66%); OCEANOGRAPHY (64%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



419 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Opens Its Borders to Goods From Abroad

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Aug. 11

 BODY:
"America is Here" proclaims a banner beckoning customers to Radio Shack's new stores here and in Rio de Janeiro, emporiums stocked with goods for which Brazilians previously journeyed to Miami: cellular telephones, laser printers and laptop computers.
"Business is so good that we will open a second store by the end of the year," said Djalma Luiz Crispim, who planted Radio Shack's flag in Sao Paulo, South America's largest city, three months ago by opening a store in Morumbi Shopping Center. 
 Brazil -- Latin America's largest economy -- is suddenly dismantling import barriers dating back to the 1960's. On Tuesday, for example, Brazilian journalists are to gather here to test-drive the Explorer, a luxury sport-utility vehicle imported from the United States by the Ford division of Autolatina Brasil S.A. The introduction of the Explorer will be the first large-scale promotion of an American car since Brazil banned almost all car imports in 1974.
For the United States, traditionally Brazil's largest trading partner, the opening of Brazil's $450 billion economy is good news.
"Brazil's gross domestic product is twice that of Mexico's, so the potential is enormous," said Richard R. Ades, director of the United States Department of Commerce's trade office here. Brazil "is becoming increasingly attractive to United States companies," he added, with inquiries by United States exporters up by an estimated 40 percent this year over last.
For decades, American exporters wrote Brazil off as a closed shop.
In the 1960's and 1970's, successive Brazilian Governments sought to stimulate local industrial production by banning the import of more than 1,000 products and by imposing tariffs as high as 205 percent on other products.
But in 1990, the list of banned imports was abolished, and the average import tariff has dropped steadily. From 78 percent in 1984, it fell to 14 percent last month in a final scheduled reduction -- and duties could fall even further.
Brazilians now find that their tariff levels are near Latin America's norm. Argentina and Chile impose average external tariffs of 11 percent. Mexico's average tariff is 12 percent. In the United States, the average import duty on industrialized products is 5 percent.
"Fernando Collor was criticized for many things, but he really opened the country up," Soumo Kabakian, trade director of Flowlevel Controls, said of the Brazilian president who resigned last December under a corruption cloud. Mr. Kabakian estimated that his company's annual imports of American and Canadian industrial-control instruments would rise to $500,000 this year -- 10 times the 1989 level of $50,000.
 
Pent-Up Demand
 Importers here sense an enormous pent-up demand for imported goods despite Brazil's poor economic situation -- a long-term recession and 32 percent monthly inflation.
[On Friday, the president of the central bank, Paulo Cesar Ximenes, resigned and was to be replaced by Pedro Malan, who will become Brazil's fourth central bank president in a year. The new foreign debt negotiator is Andre Lara Resende.]
"Miami Mania" blares advertisements for a national electronics store chain, Photo Mania. Each store now has an imports corner, hawking imported telephones, toaster ovens, stereos, radios and microwave ovens.
Last October, a 10-year ban on imported computers was lifted, and the impact was evident last month at the stands of Fenasoft, Brazil's largest annual computer show.
"The American presence at Fenasoft must have increased this year by 50 to 70 percent," said George Zelenjuk, a director of ABC Dados Informatica S.A., a major importer here of data communications equipment.
In addition to cutting tariffs, Brazil has helped imports by improving its bureaucracy.
 
'Simply Dreadful'
 "We had a customs that was simply dreadful -- they did everything possible to stop imports," recalled Edmundo Klotz, president of Essencial Alimentos S.A., which imports Jack Daniels whisky and Sterling wine from the United States. "But that is changing very quickly, and I am very optimistic. I am investing in new product lines."
As a result of all these sales, the nation's trade surplus with the United States has dwindled, falling to $1.8 billion in 1992 from $5 billion in 1988. During that period, American exports to Brazil grew by 35 percent, hitting $5.7 billion last year. Over all, Latin America constitutes the world's fastest growing market for American exports.
Brazil's imports from all nations hit $11.1 billion during the first half of 1993. This was the highest level on record and an 18 percent increase from the comparable period last year.
Japanese and Korean consumer goods are also entering Brazil's market, but American exporters seem to enjoy an edge based, in part, on Brazilians' long-term cultural affinity with the United States.
Every year, about a million Brazilians study English at private language academies. This year, about 400,000 Brazilians are expected to visit the United States, the most popular tourist destination for Brazilians.
Brazil's economy -- which accounts for about 40 percent of the Latin American economy -- is expected to grow by 3 percent this year; as a rule, every 1 percent of new economic growth in Latin America increases United States exports by about $5 billion, according to Peter Hakim, president of the Inter-American Dialogue, a private study group in Washington. By comparison, every 1 percent of economic growth in Japan yields only a $1 billion increase in imports of American goods.
Hidden behind the flashy new consumer goods filling shelves here, the fastest growing sector of Brazil's imports is capital goods. Brazilian companies have responded to the competition by either seeking Government protection or by investing to make their factories internationally competitive.
Textile manufacturers, auto makers, tire manufacturers and growers of rice and wheat have all demanded import quotas in recent months.
"It seems to be a lot tougher for Brazilians to get licenses to import used tires this year," said Howard J. Levy, president of Tire Source Inc. of Pompano Beach, Fla., a major used tire exporter. He attributed the change to pressure by Brazilian tire manufacturers.
So far, however, the Government has resisted calls for import quotas, and in their absence many companies are cutting prices and improving products to compete with the imports.
Brazil's car industry, dominated by local operations of Ford, Fiat, General Motors and Volkwagen, plans to invest $2 billion to modernize production lines in the 1990's. This year, the industry plans to introduce 10 new models; it normally introduces two models a year.
 
Productivity Gains
 With tariffs on imported cars now at 35 percent, down from 85 percent in 1990, car manufacturers have increased worker productivity by 46 percent since 1990, according to a study by Exame, Brazil's leading business magazine.
"Our imports are only to fill niches in our product line," said Cassio Pagliarini, marketing plan manager here for Ford. In addition to the Explorer, Ford plans to start importing Taurus cars from the United States in March. By the end of this year, General Motors do Brasil plans to start importing Calibra cars from its German factories and Lumina APV mini-vans from a factory in Tarrytown, N.Y.
Over all, car imports are expected to hit 30,000 units this year, only 3 percent of Brazil's expected domestic production of one million cars.
In the processed food sector, Brazilian companies reacted to the import threat by improving packaging and by introducing 600 products during the first half of this year -- twice as many as during all of last year.
Prices in the electronics sector have dropped by an average of 40 percent since 1989, according to a survey by Veja, a weekly news magazine, which reported that the price of a locally made Gradiente videocassette player fell to $464 from $1,125. The price of a Sharp fax machine dropped to $630 from $1,600.
But the developments -- a boon for consumers and importers -- have often meant a loss for Brazilian workers. Many of the cost savings have been achieved by importing parts and laying off workers. Over the last four years, Gradiente increased the foreign-made portion of its television from 5 percent to 80 percent, while slashing its work force to 2,700 employees from 9,000.
Although Brazil's Government is resisting calls for imposing import quotas on consumer goods, the state bureaucracy hews to a "buy national" procurement policy, according to the Report on Foreign Trade Barriers, a study issued annually by the Office of the United States Trade Representative.
Despite this tradition, two Government water pollution control projects, one in Rio de Janeiro and one in Sao Paulo, are expected to provide some of the greatest opportunities for American export companies in Brazil in the 1990's. The Sao Paulo project, a $4 billion effort to clean up the Tiete River, was described this week as Latin America's largest pollution control project by the Sao Paulo state governor, Luiz Antonio Fleury.
 
'Excellent Chances'
 "There are excellent chances for American companies to sell water filters and pollution monitoring equipment," said Ricardo E. Rose, trade assistant at the United States Trade Office here.
Despite the gains, corruption and bureaucratic paperwork still slow sales, importers complain.
"Last January, I had to pay $1,500 to get a $25,000 shipment out of customs," said one importer, who asked not to be identified. "The customs inspector was about to be transferred to Rio, and she wanted to get some dollars together for the move."
Aware of importers' complaints, Trade Ministry officials say they plan to reduce, starting in November, the number of documents needed for importing to one, from 30.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brazil and its $450 billion economy are becoming increasingly attractive to companies in the United States. At a Rio de Janeiro Radio Shack store, the sign at right proclaims "America is here." (John Maier Jr. for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Opening a Market" shows Brazil's average import tariffs (Source: Brazil's Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RSH (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (93%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); 

COMPANY: RADIOSHACK CORP (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL; UNITED STATES BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (93%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); WRITERS (69%); TRENDS (64%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (57%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (57%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



420 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: U.S. TO GUARANTEE FREE IMMUNIZATION FOR POOR CHILDREN

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 15

 BODY:
Over strenuous objections by some drug companies, the Federal Government is establishing a program guaranteeing free vaccine for millions of children who are poor or uninsured.
Under the program, which Congress created as part of the budget bill and the President signed into law on Tuesday, the Government will buy the vaccine at discount prices from drug manufacturers and distribute it at no charge to doctors who choose to participate. The doctors, in turn, will not charge patients for the vaccine. Though they may charge a fee for administering the vaccine, they cannot turn away a child whose parents are unable to pay. 
 For procedural reasons having to do with Senate rules, a key appropriation for the new program had to be dropped from the budget bill and now awaits enactment when Congress reconvenes early next month. But that provision -- making Federal money available to clinics so they can hire additional staff members, extend their hours of operation and identify children who need to be immunized -- has bipartisan support in Congress and is sure to be enacted when Congress returns.
 
Identifying the Children
 Drug companies have argued that parental negligence, not the cost of vaccine, is the main reason for the nation's low immunization rate. In the past, they point out, even though free vaccine was available to some children in some states, their parents did not always take them to be immunized. It is for that reason that there is bipartisan support for programs to identify children who need the shots.
The program is a scaled-down version of one proposed by Mr. Clinton, who wanted the Federal Government to buy and distribute all childhood vaccine in the United States. Instead, the program will serve children who are enrolled in Medicaid and are uninsured or who get their shots at community health centers.
Nevertheless, it represents a new entitlement program for children that goes far beyond Medicaid, the Federal-state program serving about half of the nation's poor people. It will make vaccine available to children who meet certain eligibility criteria, including many whose families have too much income to qualify for Medicaid benefits. Ten million children under the age of 18 have no health insurance even though, in most cases, their parents work.
 
Question on Verification
 The law requires doctors who participate in the new program to ask parents "such questions as are necessary to determine" if a child is eligible for free vaccine. But the law also says that doctors "need not independently verify the answers to such questions."
It is not clear how the Government will prevent cheating by parents who assert that their children are uninsured.
At a time when Congress is trying to curb the growth of other benefit programs, like Medicare for the elderly, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the immunization program will cost the Federal Government $585 million over five years.
Both supporters and critics of the new program say that, in many ways, it reflects the goals of the national health care plan being devised by the Clinton Administration. It significantly expands the role of the Federal Government in an effort to guarantee universal access to an important health care service while controlling its cost.
 
Drug Executives Upset
 "The vaccine initiative was the cornerstone of health care reform," said Isabelle Claxton, a lobbyist in the Washington office of Merck & Company, which makes vaccine against measles, mumps and rubella, among other diseases. "The Administration views children's vaccine as a public utility."
Executives at many drug companies, including Merck, are upset by the Government's effort to control the costs of vaccine. The Secretary of Health and Human Services will negotiate prices with vaccine manufacturers, but the new law limits what the Government can pay to the current price of a vaccine bought under Federal contract, adjusted for inflation.
President Clinton has harshly criticized drug companies for raising vaccine prices, though companies say the price of many vaccines sold to the Government has increased more slowly than the overall Consumer Price Index in recent years.
Last year the full battery of recommended shots cost $122 when bought in bulk by the Federal Government and $244 when bought by private doctors in the open market. For some products, the disparity is even greater. The Government buys oral polio vaccine for $2 a dose, but the manufacturer charges almost $10 a dose to private doctors.
Dr. R. Gordon Douglas, president of the vaccine division of Merck & Company, told Congress that "we intend to raise our prices to the full extent permitted" by the law. The company says the increases are justified because the Government will buy more of its vaccine at a discount, leaving less for sale at full price in the private market.
 
Curbs on Insurers
 To prevent private insurers from shifting costs to the Federal Government, the new law says that private health plans may not reduce coverage of childhood vaccines below the level in effect on May 1 of this year.
Although Congress scaled back Mr. Clinton's proposal to have the Government distribute all childhood vaccines, states can take advantage of the Federal contracts to make them more widely available. Using their own money, states can buy as much vaccine as they want at the reduced prices and distribute it, if they wish, to all children in the state, regardless of family income.
Senator Donald W. Riegle Jr., Democrat of Michigan, said that many states wanted to buy additional vaccine at the discount price. In the past, he said, "When South Carolina, Hawaii and other states tried to get more vaccine at the Government price, they were discouraged from doing so by some drug companies."
The new immunization program is not subject to the vagaries of annual appropriations, which "could place states and their citizens at risk of outbreaks of serious disease," Congress said in a report on the new law.
 
'Constant and Certain'
 "The commitment to provide vaccine against preventable childhood diseases must be constant and certain," Congress said. "States that come to rely on the Federal promise to provide vaccine must be protected against possible shortfalls."
One purpose of the new program is to make sure that private pediatricians get free vaccine so they do not have to send uninsured children to public clinics for their shots. "Such referrals often result in a postponement of immunization or failure to immunize," Congress said.
Drug companies complain that as the Government buys more of their vaccine output at reduced prices, they will have less money available to conduct research on vaccines.
Dr. P. Roy Vagelos, chairman of Merck, said the legislation "could be the death knell for future research in developing new vaccines." In a letter to Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, Dr. Vagelos complained that the law required manufacturers to "sell vaccine to the states for middle- and upper-income children at the deeply discounted price negotiated for Federal purchase for the poor."
 
Endangering an Industry?
 Craig R. Engesser, a spokesman for Lederle-Praxis Biologicals, a division of the American Cyanamid Company, said: "We are extremely disappointed with the new law. We don't think it will increase immunization rates. But it will threaten future research and development of vaccines."
In a letter to senators just before the final vote on the budget bill, David R. Bethune, a vice president of American Cyanamid, asserted that the legislation would "destroy the vaccine industry in this country."
Congress instructed the Department of Health and Human Services to consider the cost of research when negotiating vaccine contracts under the new law. "To the extent that increases in negotiated prices can be justified as subsidizing research and development necessary for the improvement of public health," Congress said, Federal officials should allow such increases.
Health officials say that five new childhood vaccines now under review by the Food and Drug Administration are likely to become available on the market in the next five years. The new law does not set limits on the prices of new vaccines.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Donald W. Riegle Jr., Democrat of Michigan -- "When South Carolina, Hawaii and other states tried to get more vaccine at the Government price, they were discouraged from doing so by some drug companies." (Associated Press); Dr. P. Roy Vagelos, Chairman of Merck & Company -- The new legislation "could be the death knell for future research in developing new vaccines." (The New York Times)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (NYSE) (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: VACCINATION AND VACCINES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FEES (PROFESSIONAL); DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); VACCINES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAID (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); BIOLOGICS MFG (78%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (72%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); 

PERSON: VAGELOS, P ROY (DR); RIEGLE, DONALD W JR (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



421 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Joey Coyle, 40, Dies; Philadelphian Took Armored Car's Cash

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE

 BODY:
Joseph William Coyle, who gained fame after picking up $1.2 million that tumbled from an armored car in 1981, was found dead yesterday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 40.
Mr. Coyle, an unemployed longshoreman who spent large amounts of the money that he and two friends picked up, hanged himself with an electrical cord, said Robert Whalen , a detective with the Philadelphia police, according to The Associated Press. 
 Police officials said relatives described Mr. Coyle as still deeply grieving for his mother, who died in 1981. In addition, Mr. Coyle, who was known as Joey, had recently been convicted in a drug case. It was his sixth drug conviction, and he was to be sentenced next month.
A movie based on Mr. Coyle's experiences will be released Sept. 10. Its director, Ramon Menendez, has said he wanted the film to illustrate "what it means for a kid like that to find money." He added, "He thinks he has choices, but the money makes him paranoid."
It was Feb. 26, 1981, when Mr. Coyle and two friends were driving behind a Purolator Armored Services truck as its back doors swung open and two money bags fell out.
Mr. Coyle then became a local folk hero for passing out $100 bills around his neighborhood. He was arrested at Kennedy International Airport as he was checking in for a flight to Acapulco, Mexico; at the time, he was carrying $105,000 in 21 envelopes with $5,000 each. The envelopes were stuffed around his ankles in the tops of elastic socks. The two friends, who told the authorities about the incident, were not charged.
In February 1982, a jury found Mr. Coyle innocent of theft by reason of temporary insanity. The armored car company recovered all but roughly $196,000 of the money.
He is survived by a sister.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MEXICO (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); DEATHS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); ARMORED CAR SERVICES (78%); ARRESTS (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); SENTENCING (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); LARCENY & THEFT (75%); VERDICTS (70%); JURY TRIALS (70%); AIRPORTS (65%); 

PERSON: COYLE, JOSEPH WILLIAM; PACE, ERIC

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



422 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
Yanks Win! City Loses! Or, 1977 Repeats Itself

BYLINE: By Sam Roberts

 BODY:
AS a political barometer, major-league baseball standings appear to bode better for Rudolph W. Giuliani than for David N. Dinkins.
Mr. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal challenger, genuinely enjoys going to baseball games, which would make him an aberration as Mayor of New York. And he is a Yankee fan -- a loyalty that he says was forced on him at the age of 2 by his father and that he offers as evidence of his empathy for all other minorities. (Until he was 7 years old and his family left the city for suburban Long Island, he was, he recalls, "the only Yankee fan in Brooklyn.") 
 When the Yankees won the World Series in 1977, the incumbent Mayor, Abraham D. Beame, lost the election. The last time a Republican won a first term as Mayor, John V. Lindsay in 1965, the Mets were in last place. Still another trend suggests that it's not over till November, though: The last two times an incumbent beat the odds and won re-election, in 1961 (Robert F. Wagner) and in 1969 (Mr. Lindsay), a New York team won the World Series.
In 1977, when television focused on Yankee Stadium, the Bronx was still burning. Today, the borough is struggling to rebuild. But behind an improving facade, the social maladies that periodically drove teams in other cities to build new stadiums in the suburbs have festered unabated. What Anthony V. Bouza, the former Bronx police commander, once described as "feral youth" are today younger, even more aggressive, better armed and unwilling to be bound by the social contract.
In 1977, there were 20.8 murders for every 100,000 people in New York City. Fifteen years later, there were 29 -- about six more per 100,000 than in Puerto Rico, where a few months ago local officials mobilized the National Guard for a war on crime.
"Malign neglect continued to be the country's policy toward its Bronxes," writes Mr. Bouza in "How to Stop Crime" (Plenum Press).
Last week, President Clinton outlined an anti-crime strategy promising fewer guns and more police officers -- goals that, like reforming welfare and health care and investing in community development banks, might help cities most. This administration's oratory is benign. The absence of specifics still constitutes neglect.
A few modest remedies are buried in the President's budget package. A $1 billion increase in the social services block grant would fashion 104 urban and rural "empowerment zones and enterprise communities." As envisioned by Senator Bill Bradley, Democrat of New Jersey, the Federal Government would underwrite residential counseling and drug treatment for mothers and their infants, train young people to repair public works, teach business skills, keep schools open after regular hours, provide job counseling, take workers to their jobs and match family savings to develop assets for home ownership or education.
New York, Connecticut and New Jersey typically have been shortchanged by Washington -- they rank 44th, 49th and 50th, respectively, in how much they get back from Washington compared with how much they pay in taxes. Defense outlays in the three states are relatively low. Income is comparatively high, so the latest increases in personal and corporate taxes will soak the region more.
Is the rise in wealth illusory, though, reflecting higher living costs, including taxes? Mr. Moynihan, whose skill in shepherding the budget bill belies his reputation as intellectual but ineffectual, offers a $2,000 prize for the best essay estimating the cost-of-living effect of New York taxes on New York incomes. (Send entries to 464 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C., 20521.)
He diagnoses rising government costs as symptomatic of Baumol's Disease (named for its discoverer, William J. Baumol of New York University): To maintain a contemporary standard of living, the relative cost of services performed by workers in education, law, health care and other jobs that demand a high degree of personal involvement must be much higher than in the past. Vital but low-profit industries migrate to government, which is blamed for overspending.
In New York, Harvey Robins, the Mayor's Director of Operations, has realized measurable, if unheralded, gains in making government more efficient. But neither Mr. Dinkins nor Mr. Giuliani has gone beyond vague bromides in explaining realistically how they would maintain priority services while cutting costs.
In Washington, "city" and "urban" have been largely unspoken by the Clinton administration. "The rhetoric is good but the details are disappointing," write Robert F. Wagner Jr. and Julia Vitullo-Martin, who are studying the future of cities for the Twentieth Century Fund.
In 1977, the Yankees were winning. But the oratory from Washington was defeatist and the details were worse. The New York that the world watched on television was losing. So was the mayor of a city wallowing in apocalyptic self-doubt. As a rallying cry, "The Yanks are coming" may now ring false, whether referring to the Federal Government or to the team that threatens to abandon the Bronx. Today, Mr. Wagner and Ms. Vitullo-Martin write, "Apocalypse is not the danger; the danger is an ongoing gradual decline worsened by general national indifference."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW YORK METS NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK METS (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW YORK METS NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK METS (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: MAYORS; ELECTIONS; BASEBALL BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); MAYORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); SUBURBS (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); BUDGETS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); BEAME, ABRAHAM D; LINDSAY, JOHN V RUDY GIULIANI (90%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



423 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Laid-Off Boatyard Workers Rehired

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW GRETNA, N.J., Aug. 12

 BODY:
Judy Ott spends more time aboard million-dollar yachts than most millionaire playboys and crowned heads of Europe.
Yet the only part of the world she travels is between her South Jersey home and the Viking Yacht Company's manufacturing sheds on the banks of the Bass River here, where she spends her days applying the finishing touches to wooden stateroom panels in luxury vessels taking shape on the plant's twin 1,000-foot-long assembly lines. 
 Ms. Ott is one of thousands of boatyard workers in the metropolitan New York region trickling back to jobs they lost two years ago after Congress passed a 10 percent luxury tax on boats with a price tag of more than $110,000. Rehirings at Viking began earlier this year in anticipation of the repeal of the luxury tax, an event that took place last week in the new budget package that squeezed through Congress.
The tax had been aimed at the small number of Americans rich enough to afford the kind of boats Ms. Ott helps assemble in an area where boat building offers the only year-round jobs outside of those available at the Atlantic City casinos, about 15 miles south.
 
Hurting 'Working People'
 "You had to be an ignoramus to believe the luxury tax was only going to soak the rich," Ms. Ott said as she brushed a sealer on the door of a passageway aboard a 50-foot fat-beamed boat nearing completion after three months of fabrication. "The only people it hurt was working people like myself," she said, slapping the sealer against the wood paneling in short, angry strokes.
A single parent with three children, Ms. Ott survived on unemployment benefits of $287 a week for the nearly two years she was without a job. At the same time, her former husband could not pay child support, she said, because the recession killed the small business he ran.
The worst part was worrying about getting sick without medical benefits. Her coverage ended with her furlough in 1991 and did not resume, she said, until she was called back to work last month.
Robert T. Healey, the silver-haired dynamo who with his brother, William, started Viking Yacht in 1959, said, "All these people suffered needlessly because the politicians in Washington needed a symbol in 1990 to sell the American people a new tax increase." The Healeys built Viking into one of the top luxury boat manufacturers in the world.
"It's a saying in the industry that big companies make little boats, and little companies make big boats," Mr. Healey, 64, said with a smile. A lawyer turned businessman, he serves as chairman of the board of Viking, a family-owned enterprise.
 
700 Jobs Eliminated
 In 1990, the year before the tax was levied, Viking built nearly 200 motor yachts and luxury sports fishing vessels and grossed about $100 million in sales. Its plants in New Gretna and St. Petersburg, Fla., employed 1,451 workers. The next year, with sales plummeting and inventory backing up, the Healey brothers shut the Florida plant, eliminating 700 jobs.
By the end of 1991, the work force at the 400,000-square-foot New Gretna plant was reduced to 60, kept going a small number of orders from foreign buyers unaffected by the tax and Americans who swung a deal that had Viking, in effect, discounting the boats by 10 percent. By the end of 1992, Viking had sold only 45 boats, costing a total of $23 million.
The National Marine Manufacturers Association, a trade group, estimated that the tax caused 100,000 layoffs nationwide. For every dollar collected on the tax, the Federal Government paid out $5 in unemployment and other costs associated with the layoffs, the trade group estimated.
In 1990, the boating industry in the New York area employed more than 60,000 people: 19,000 in New Jersey, 31,200 in New York and 12,000 in Connecticut. About one in three of these workers were employed in manufacturing, equipment and supplies, the others in service and sales, according to industry figures.
The recession, of course, adversely affected the boating industry, Mr. Healey said, forcing layoffs and business failures. In each of two previous recessions, in the mid-1970's and early 1980's, luxury boat sales dropped about 35 percent, in part because of soaring energy prices that blunted the market for yachts that can gulp up to two gallons of fuel a minute when under way. In this recession, Mr. Healey said, yacht sales collapsed by 80 percent, an outcome he directly attributed to the tax.
Boat building is an tradition deep in the tidal salt marshes where Burlington County reaches entirely across the state from the Delaware River to claim a narrow neck of beachhead on the Atlantic where the Bass and Mulica Rivers run into the sea below Tuckerton.
New Gretna was little more than a marsh when the Garden State Parkway rammed south in the 1950's and sand for use in the toll road was quarried here, leaving a huge water-filled crater. The Healey brothers bought the land and turned it into a marina, moving easily into building handcrafted wooden yachts and, by the early 1970's, into fiberglass production.
When layoffs hit Viking two years ago, two local bars and the only bank in the roadside community of New Gretna also closed down. Now Viking has rehired 275 workers and will add another 50 by the end of this month, said William Healey, 65, the company president.
One of those rehired is David Wilson, a 21-year old computer draftsman whose father, Bruce, is Viking's chief designer and whose grandfather started with Viking in 1959 as a painter. "There's no other work in the area for someone with technical skills," said David Wilson, who spent his one-year layoff mowing grass at $6 an hour.

GRAPHIC: The Viking Yacht Company in New Gretna, N.J., has rehired 275 workers and will add another 50 by the end of this month as a result of Congress's repeal of a 10 percent luxury tax on boats with a price tag of more than $110,000. Workers stood inside the hull of a boat under construction. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5091 SPORTING & RECREATIONAL GOODS & SUPPLIES (84%); SIC3732 BOAT BUILDING & REPAIRING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (88%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VIKING YACHT CO VIKING YACHT CO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: VIKING YACHT CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOATS AND BOATING; LAYOFFS (LABOR); TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LABOR TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BOAT BUILDING (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EXCISE TAX (90%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); CITIES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); FAMILY (75%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX INCREASES (74%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (63%); SPORT FISHING (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON; OTT, JUDY

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



424 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Cuba's New Money Law

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: HAVANA, Aug. 15

 BODY:
Legislation took effect Saturday allowing Cubans to own hard currency and open bank accounts in convertible money like American dollars.
The legislation was the first step in a series of economic changes announced on July 26 by President Fidel Castro that are aimed at raising the island's depleted hard-currency income. 
 The law is expected to bring into state coffers large amounts of convertible currency, mostly American dollars, that had previously circulated in Cuba's huge and flourishing black market.
The law, signed by Castro and published in Granma, the official newspaper, revoked two clauses in Cuba's penal code that had previously banned the ownership and use of hard currency by Cubans.
Besides a greater opening up of the economy to foreign investment, another change being studied would allow a limited measure of legal private enterprise by individuals providing small, useful services like watch repair, locks and eyeglasses.
Cuba's economic recession, caused by the collapse of past trade and aid ties with the former Soviet bloc, has resulted in drastic transportation and electricity cuts and widespread shortages of fuel, food, raw materials and basic consumer goods.
A continuing trade embargo by the United States makes it even more difficult for the island to obtain vital imports, Cuban officials say.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; BANKS AND BANKING ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (53%); 

PERSON: CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



425 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: TENNIS;
Tennis Brings Life To Part of New York

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE

 BODY:
"The Bronx has been too many people's prop for too long," said Borough President Fernando Ferrer. "It's always somebody's photo op, somebody's victory, somebody's chance to put blame on everything that's wrong with the world."
He surveyed Crotona Park, sprawling languid and green in the heart of the South Bronx on this warm, sweet Friday afternoon. "The Bronx is about good people who haven't given up, who've stuck it out. They become empowered when something like this comes around." 
Ferrer was enjoying a photo op and a victory of sorts, the coming around of a professional tennis tournament that begins today. The first $50,000 Bronx Pro Classic is only a borough and a dream away from the United States Open.
"I've heard of the South Bronx, I see the movies; I was a little worried," said Miles Maclagan of London, who is ranked No. 343 in the world. He glanced around, for muggers, junkies, drive-by shooters, but saw only police officers, ball-fetchers, other tennis players.
But Maclagan is 18 years old and he needs to win some matches, accumulate some touring pro points, write his name on draw sheets that matter. He would go almost anywhere.
"The Bronx is not Bosnia," said Ferrer, a snappy 43-year-old who alone among local politicians has been publicly rushing the net at George Steinbrenner's Bronx slurs. "Did you know we are the leading locality in America in housing production?"
"Yes, yes," said Leighton Alfred, Maclagan's 31-year-old coach, pulling his pupil out of the picture. "As Miles tours the world he learns that there are good places and bad places in all different places. We really must practice now."
Miles and Leighton hurried back to one of the 20 newly resurfaced public hardcourts, surely one of the best-kept tennis secrets in a court-starved city. But the Britons might as well have been on planet Reebok as the South Bronx; they were shuttled back and forth by van from their Manhattan hotel. They hadn't come from Europe to chat with Ferrer, or even Migdalia Figueroa.
Saturday, as Maclagan fought for one of the four qualifier berths, Figueroa, a 22-year-old mother of three, sat on a blanket about 100 yards from the fence that separated the tennis courts from the rest of Crotona Park. She would have been closer, but the police had moved her family and friends, about a dozen picnickers, out of the players' line of vision.
The cops had asked if they planned to barbecue or play loud music in the park to which they come most every weekend to barbecue and play loud music. No, they said, on this particular day they had brought cold food, which was good because the police were concerned that smoke might get in Miles's eyes or the throbbing salsa might disturb the rhythms of his game. Local police commanders had apparently been persuaded that professional tennis in the Bronx was a good thing.
Figueroa thought it was a good thing, too, but she wondered how permanent. "This is not a bad park," she said. "There's crime and drugs, you can get mugged at night. You have to be careful. With all the cops around now it's very good. After the tennis . . ." She shrugged and smiled.
Perhaps the Bronx Pro Tennis Classic is such a fine event because it is such a prop.
For rising players who need a boost in the world rankings, such as Britain's Chris Wilkinson (126), France's Jean-Philippe Fleurian (135) and Venezuela's Maurice Ruah (161), as well for more established players who need an upturn in their fortunes, such as Israel's Gilad Bloom (171) and India's Ramesh Krishnan (230), this tournament offers attention and opportunity just as the tennis world begins to focus on New York. The Open in Queens is two weeks away.
For local fans, it is a rare chance to watch seven days of men's singles and doubles -- for free -- in that same kind of clubby accessibility that has made minor league baseball so popular. Parking is available and the Nos. 2 and 5 subway trains stop at nearby 174th Street. Watch the stars of tomorrow shine right in your face today.
For the Bronx, it is a rare plug on the Happy News Network. The Yankees' presence, about two miles southwest of Crotona Park, has been devalued by Steinbrenner's Bronx-bashing, which both Ferrer and Mike Gill, chairman and chief fund-raiser for the Classic, deplore as a cynical negotiation tactic.
"It wouldn't be that economically harmful if the Yankees left, but it would be an enormous psychological loss," said Ferrer. "And the debate has been harmful. His arguments about crime, parking and attendance are nonsense, but they fit the misconceptions about the Bronx."
"This tournament is not about tennis," said Gill, a management consultant whose clients are among the patrons. "This is about a chance to look at a community in a new way. A chance to reposition the Bronx."
It is also a rare opportunity for tennis to find common court for both commerce and education. The main sponsor of the event is the New York Junior Tennis League, a City Department of Youth Services agency whose mandate, according to Deputy Director Sheri Sobrin, is to "provide free tennis to every kid in the city and make good citizens."
The 39 ball-fetchers, culled from the 35,000 city youngsters in the program, thought it was hard work, especially when they had to go to the bathroom and were trying not to laugh at the intense, muttering, wild cards, like Andy Adler, who was telling Crotona Park to shut up as he lost in the qualifying round.
"I was nervous," said Adler, an upbeat 25-year-old who just got his M.B.A. from Hofstra and is now trying to get his game back. "The ball kids would say things like, 'Ooh, how could you miss that?' and it relaxed me. It's a well-run tournament. They're even generous to the players. You know at my level you don't always get as much free water as you want."
"He needs to decide what do with his life," said his coach, Da-Lai Wu, a 35-year-old former Chinese Davis Cup player who said he left the tour himself 10 years ago after stubbing his toe on a hotel bedpost in Hawaii. The injury was minor, but the lesson was a major one he shares with all his students.
"I needed some stitches between my toes," said Wu. "It was going to put me out of action for a while. So I called my sponsor, and he said, 'Funny thing, my race car blew an engine today and my thoroughbred broke his leg. I'm going to rebuild the engine and put the horse out to stud, but I can't give you any more money.'
"I realized I was just an object. I had a wife and kid. So I went into coaching."
Wu coached at the State University of New York at Old Westbury for four years, and then opened "Rush and Crush," strategic consultants for touring pros. He said he thought the Bronx Classic was a terrific event, and was sorry he was leaving early. He said he expected to be back next year, maybe with Andy Adler if he got it together.
On the way out, Wu and Adler passed Maclagan, who had also bombed out of the qualies, and Alfred, his coach. They were trying to figure out how to get to the next tournament, which was on Long Island, which might just as well have been the Bronx.

GRAPHIC: Photos: While qualifying matches were held for the Bronx Pro Classic, Ernesto Martinez, top, enjoyed a family picnic in Crotona Park. Bottom, the event has brought an increased police presence to the park. (Photographs by Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRONX (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); EUROPE (71%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TENNIS; BRONX PRO CLASSIC (TENNIS TOURNAMENT) TENNIS (92%); SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (74%); ATHLETES (74%); 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT GEORGE STEINBRENNER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



426 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 122 words

HEADLINE: PULSE: Consumer Spending

 BODY:
Metropolitan-area consumers spent an average of $34,538 per household in 1990-91, up 10 percent from 1988-89, according to the Labor Department. Despite the increase, expenditures in many discretionary categories, like new cars and entertainment, wer down because of the region's sluggish economy. Consumer spending in the region was higher than the national average in most categories. One exception is transportation - because area consumers spend almost three times more than the national average on public transportation and less on new cars and gasoline, their total outlay for transportation is 4 percent less.
 
*26-county area including New York City and surrounding suburbs in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing annual consumer expenditures by category, and comparing spending habits in 1990-91. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); TRENDS (88%); MARKET RESEARCH (88%); CITIES (86%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



427 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: California Scapegoats

 BODY:
America's cultural and political trends traditionally premiere in California. For that reason the growing enthusiasm of California politicians from both parties for making immigration a scapegoat for their state's many social and economic ills is alarming and dangerous.
Leading the charge is Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, expected to seek re-election next year amid spiraling defense layoffs, relentless fiscal pressure, acute racial tension and growing anxiety about violent crime. The flow of impoverished job seekers across the Mexican border only heightens the competition for jobs and dollars. 
 Despite recent enforcement efforts, the Federal Government seems unable to control human traffic across the San Ysidro-Tijuana frontier. But the package of punitive anti-immigrant measures Governor Wilson proposed to Washington last week would bring no more than marginal relief. And the proposals would do so at a high cost to the traditional and humane values of this immigrant nation.
Governor Wilson wants to deny U.S. citizenship and public education to children born in this country if their parents are here illegally. He asks that states be freed to deny even emergency health care to illegals. He wants a new "tamper-proof" system of immigrant identity cards. And he wants Washington to pressure Mexico, in the negotiations for the North American Free Trade Agreement, for a police crackdown on its side of the border.
The proposal on citizenship would require amending the Constitution and diluting its proud offer of full citizenship to "all persons born" on American soil. And the right to public education was established by a 1982 Supreme Court decision. Congress could, if it chose, enact the Draconian health care proposal. But does Governor Wilson really want to see emergency rooms turn desperately ill, possibly infectious patients onto the street?
Tamper-proof identity cards, however, may be feasible and are already under consideration by the Clinton Administration. And no one can argue with the need for better policing of the border by Mexico.
Governor Wilson contends that he is targeting Federally mandated benefits that draw in millions of illegal immigrants. But a more powerful draw is surely the jobs and wages available even in a depressed California economy. That's why Washington's most recent legislative attempt to limit illegal immigration, in 1986, aimed at the workplace, imposing penalties on employers who knowingly gave jobs to illegals.
That law has not worked nearly as well as its backers once hoped -- the penalties may have been too modest to deter violations and enforcement has been inconsistent. But in light of the continuing lure of jobs and the near impossibility of physically policing the entire Mexican border, closing loopholes and increasing employer penalties would seem the most promising areas for further action. Yet Governor Wilson has had curiously little to say about tougher workplace enforcement.
Mr. Wilson stood on stronger ground earlier this year when he requested additional money from the Federal Government to offset the costs of Federally mandated expenses for immigrant needs. Although the full amount of his request was turned down, Washington eventually provided $500 million.
Asking Washington to pick up more of the costs of its failure to enforce Federal immigration laws makes sense. Last week's foray into nativist demagogy only makes political mischief.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES IMMIGRATION (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); CHILDREN (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (66%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); APPEALS (50%); 

PERSON: WILSON, PETE (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



428 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: The Phony Retroactivity Scare

 BODY:
Repeal retroactivity. The mantra isn't quite as catchy as, say, "no taxation without representation." But that hasn't stopped the Republicans from using it to rouse voter anger at the budget bill passed by the Democrats and signed by President Clinton. The Senate minority leader, Bob Dole, and friends are incensed that the bill backdates the tax increases to the first of the year, three weeks before Mr. Clinton took office and months before he sent the legislation to Capitol Hill.
The backdating may not be fair play. (In a slightly macabre twist, the bill raises taxes on the estates of about 1,000 individuals after they died.) But it's not illegal, and the damage is minor, hardly enough to justify Mr. Dole's raucous outrage. 
 Retroactive tax hikes aren't new; Mr. Dole approved them when he served as chairman of the Senate tax-writing committee. In the current bill, the hikes apply only to the richest 1 percent of Americans and 4 percent of small businesses -- a fact that opponents conveniently forget to tell their audiences. And everyone knew at the start of the year that tax hikes were coming along with the new President. Besides, the Administration eased the sting by permitting taxpayers to spread their extra over two years starting next April.
The essence of the Republican argument is that the tax hikes should have been made effective this month, when the bill was passed. That principle is absurd. Tax changes often take effect as of the date they are announced in order to cut down evasion. If Congress had started the tax hikes on Jan. 1, 1994, for example, some executives would have bumped part of their '94 pay into '93.
In retrospect, Congress would have been wiser to choose April as the start date. That's when the legislation went to Congress. With this simple change, Congress could have torpedoed Mr. Dole's public relations campaign and lost only $5 billion in revenue, 1 percent of the total package.
It would also have been wiser on strictly economic grounds with the economy limping. The July 1 start date originally suggested by the Senate would have left $9 billion in private pockets to generate more spending and, therefore, more jobs. The extra spending wouldn't do wonders in a $6 trillion economy, but at least it would have been a push in the right direction.
Mr. Clinton understood this, which is why he originally proposed a $30 billion stimulus package that would have raised the deficit temporarily in order to pick the economy up before the heavy deficit reduction began. But his clever two-stage policy was buried by a Republican filibuster.
Retroactive tax hikes aren't fair to a handful of wealthy Americans, nor do they represent flawless economic policy. That said, they are hardly the disaster portrayed by Mr. Dole. The $500 billion deficit-reduction bill is chock full of other arbitrary, ill-advised provisions. But it's also a serious first step in getting Federal accounts in order. Mr. Dole's contempt should find other targets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; EDITORIALS TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX INCREASES (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



429 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Soviet Republics Look Again to Russia;
Undemocratic Belarus

 BODY:
To the Editor:
While Belarus can be commended for its policy on getting rid of nuclear missiles, promoting the country as a model for other former Soviet republics seems out of place ('Belarus, a Model for Ukraine," editorial, Aug. 4). Belarus is one of the least democratic of the former republics, with the former Communist bureaucracy entrenched at all government levels. 
 Since gaining independence in 1991, Belarus has made little progress in democratization and hardly any in economic reforms. Last year the parliament ignored a petition, signed by 400,000 voters and validated by the electoral commission, for a referendum on early parliamentary elections. Most news media are government owned or subsidized. Last Jan. 1 the few independent radio and television stations were shut down.
As for the economy, Soviet-style price controls and production quotas remain in effect, and 90 percent of the property is state-owned. In terms of governance, Belarus has a long way to go before it can be promoted as an example to be followed by any other country.
 
ART B. ARTMAN
Research Assistant, Freedom House
New York, Aug. 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: BELARUS (94%); UKRAINE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FREEDOM HOUSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOM HOUSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BELARUS BELARUS (94%); UKRAINE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); REFERENDUMS (69%); PETITIONS (69%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%); 

PERSON: ARTMAN, ART B

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993



430 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-11
 
SARAJEVO ACCORD REPORTED NEAR
 
Mediators announced in Geneva that the three Bosnian factions were close to agreement on a plan to demilitarize Sarajevo and put it under interim U.N. administration. A1 

LIFE AMONG THE EUPHEMISMS
News Analysis: The U.N. force in Bosnia, finding it necessary to assuage the Serbs surrounding Sarajevo in order to deliver aid, refuse to call the encirclement a siege. But the residents suffer just the same. A6
 
The U.S. says Serbs must do more to premit relief of of Sarajevo. A7
 
The U.S. Ambassador to Croatia is a popular envoy in Zagreb. A5
 
REALITY OF TALKING TO THE P.L.O.
News Analysis: The notion of totally excluding the P.L.O. from the Middle East peace talks has never been more than a polite fiction. A1
 
The wounding of 6 Irish soldiers hurt Israel's diplomatic hopes. A10
 
TAXIS' ROLE IN AFRICAN VIOLENCE
Taxis have become fixtures in the havoc of South Africa, tied more to gruesome death than to golden opportunity as disputes between fleets lead to warfare in townships near Pretoria and Johannesburg. A3
 
ARMENIA FACES ENERGY DILEMMA
Facing a fuel crisis, Armenia is caught in a dilemma: reactivate a nuclear power plant that was shut down for safety reasons, or drain water from a lake for hydroelectricity and risk losing the lake. A2
 
Iran's Parliament rejected a reform-minded minister. A10
 
The U.S. and Asia are building security and trade ties. A11
 
Toronto Journal: The down and out find redemption on stage. A4
 
National A12-15
 
OUTLINING HEALTH PLAN
President Clinton told governors the broad outlines of his plan to guarantee health care for all Americans, in part by requiring every employer to provide insurance coverage for employees. A1
 
THE SALES PITCH BEGINS
The speech by the President officially opened the marketing of his health care plan, a campaign that promises to be far more extensive than the White House's sometimes fitful effort on its economic package. A14
 
GIANT TELEPHONE TAKEOVER
A.T.& T. will acquire McCaw Cellular, the nation's biggest cellular telephone company, for $12.6 billion. The move could profoundly alter telecommunications in the United States. A1
 
NON-CATHOLICS ON THE POPE
For Catholics in Denver, the visit by Pope John Paul II was a time of renewed faith and enormous pride. But non-Catholics had a decidedly mixed response. A12
 
THE FRUIT OF DISAGREEMENT
Pampered and protected, American apples grown specifically to break a 22-year Japanese trade ban are nearing harvest. But their fate is fast becoming a source of friction between Washington and Tokyo. A1
 
DECISION IN BEATING CASE
One verdict was reached in the trial of three former policemen charged in the fatal beating of a man in Detroit, but the decision was sealed until all the verdicts are in. A12
 
NOT THE END OF THE TALE
The acquittal of Robert A. Altman in the B.C.C.I. case is far from the end of a global investigation into the fraudulent activities of the bank, investigators say. A12
 
Kevorkian said to face charge. A12
 
Metro Digest B1
 
SCHOOL ASBESTOS FEARS RAISED
An emergency inspection of the New York City public schools has found at least some exposed asbestos in each of the 94 schools checked so far, indicated that the scandal over school asbestos tests has become more extensive and costly than officials first anticipated. A1
 
KIDNAPPED BUSINESSMAN FREED
The chairman of the nation's largest tuxedo manufacturer was found buried alive in a barrel-shaped bunker in Manhattan after being kidnapped 12 days ago, the police said. Detectives say $3 million in ransom was paid. An employee and his brother were arrested. A1
 
NEW CURBS ON DIVORCE LAWYERS
Looking to protect women who are taken advantage of by their divorce lawyers, New York State's top judge, Judith S. Kaye, issued new rules to give clients more rights. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Science Times C1-12
 
Two scientists' death a blow to tropical forest inventory. C1
 
The latest in space exploration: a 5,000-mile telescope. C1
 
The placebo effect found to be twice as strong as was thought. C3
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
Forest Whitaker, director. C13
 
Rebirth of a Brazilian theater. C13
 
Theater: "A Better Life." C17
 
Music: Sufi devotional concert in Central Park. C13
 
Dvorak and his milieu. C13
 
Joey Baron's odd trio. C17
 
Books: "The Invention of Pornography." C18
 
Fashion B7
 
Swimsuits that aren't just for the beach.
 
Sports B8-13
 
Auto Racing: Stock-car era begins at Indy. B9
 
Baseball: Mets beat Reds. B11
 
Yanks' bullpen showing improvement. B11
 
Ojeda loses to Blue Jays. B10
 
Jordan Murder: Suspects appear in court. B12
 
Columns: Durso on horse racing B9
 
On Baseball B11
 
Football: Esiason named starter for Jets. B9
 
Golf: Title may be launching pad for Azinger. B13
 
Track and Field: Narrow victory for Devers. B9
 
Obituaries B6
 
Stewart Granger, actor.
 
Irene Sharaff, costume designer.
 
Robert Kempner, a U.S. counsel at Nuremberg.
 
Dr. F. Merlin Bumpus, researher on high blood pressure.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Stop nibbling at Nafta.
 
Mr. Giuliani and the schools.
 
Women's work -- and men's, too.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Everybody has one.
 
Carla A. Hills: The trade pact is our best deal.
 
Patricia Kean: Ship the Mets to New Jersey.
 
Alain C. Enthoven and Sara J. Singer: Health care is healing itself.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Bridge C16
 
Chess C18
 
Crossword C18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); ARMENIA (92%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SWITZERLAND (88%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (69%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); ARMENIA (92%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SWITZERLAND (88%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (69%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); RELIGION (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); HOMICIDE (72%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (71%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (71%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); POWER PLANTS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (65%); VERDICTS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); APPLE ORCHARDS (60%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



431 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON'S HEALTH PLAN;
CLINTON OUTLINES HEALTH CARE PLAN PAID BY EMPLOYERS

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TULSA, Okla., Aug. 16

 BODY:
Appealing for support from the "vital center," President Clinton today put forward the broad outlines of his plan to guarantee health care for all Americans, in part by requiring every employer to provide insurance coverage for employees.
While Republicans and small-business advocates warned that the plan could result in the loss of millions of jobs, the White House said it intended to ease the burden on employers by recommending that the plan not take full effect for five to seven years. 
 A senior adviser to Mr. Clinton said the delay would allow the Government to use money saved by cost-control measures in the first phase of the plan to subsidize the costs of small and low-wage businesses that otherwise could not afford to buy the insurance.
 
Providing a Rationale
 The cost of the insurance to employers would range from 3.5 percent of payroll for the smallest business to 7 percent for larger ones.
"I don't pretend to have all the answers," Mr. Clinton said in his first speech on health care since becoming President, "but I am absolutely sure that this is a problem that America cannot let go, that we cannot walk away from." [Excerpts, page A14.]
He said a failure to adopt changes now would send the cost of health care skyrocketing to 19 percent of gross national product by the end of the decade. Today's 14 percent is already the highest rate in the world. The details of the White House proposal will not be released until next month, and today's speech, to the National Governors' Association meeting here, aimed more to provide a rationale for strong action and to counter emerging criticisms.
 
Clearest Picture Yet
 But the sketch presented today by Mr. Clinton and his top aides offered the clearest picture yet of his long-promised plan to slash the soaring cost of health care while extending coverage to the 37 million Americans who lack health insurance.
Besides mandating employer-paid insurance, the plan Mr. Clinton discussed would seek to do the following:
*Guarantee health coverage to every American, with people paying "in proportion to what they can afford."
*Develop a system of insurance buying cooperatives in each state, through which most individuals and businesses would be offered a selection of health plans, enabling small businesses to get better insurance rates than they usually do today.
*Slow the increase in health spending by encouraging competition among health plans and by setting overall health budget ceilings for each state.
*Allow self-employed people to deduct 100 percent of their health insurance costs instead of the current 25 percent.
 
Questions Remain
 Mr. Clinton made it plain that his effort would seek first to reduce health care costs by revamping the insurance system and reducing Government red tape. Only then, his advisers said, would the Government require all employers to provide coverage to their employees.
But many crucial questions about the proposal remain unanswered, including: which businesses and individuals will receive subsidies to help buy health insurance; how much the subsidies will cost and exactly where all the money will come from; what benefits will be included in the standard insurance package Mr. Clinton said would be offered to all Americans, and how national or state health spending ceilings will be determined and enforced.
In his 45-minute address to the governors, Mr. Clinton also made clear that he had rejected health care alternatives that would have established a Canadian-style system giving Government the leading role or that simply would have required that individuals buy their own health insurance.
By putting the financial burden on employers, Mr. Clinton said, his Administration would build on a central feature of the current health care system. He said he regarded the approach as "the fairest way to go." Most the country's businesses, including nearly all larger ones, already help pay for health insurance for their employees.
But some smaller companies and those that pay low wages say they cannot afford it. A majority of the country's uninsured people are workers in such firms and their families.
 
Possible New Taxes
 Aides to Mr. Clinton said most of the costs of the new plan would be covered by savings generated from the revamping of the system. But they said the White House was considering increasing taxes on cigarettes, liquor or both to raise about $10 billion to help pay for long-term care for the elderly, including more home care.
Along with laying out the President's plan, the White House was trying to drown out the criticisms of those who have begun to shout down the plan even before it is released. Governor William F. Weld, Republican of Massachusetts, told reporters here today that members of his party would oppose "tax increases, price controls" and any proposal that shifted costs to the states.
Mr. Clinton warned that a divisive political fight could deprive the nation of a historic chance to change the health care system. "We cannot continue to do nothing," he declared.
But he acknowledged that his Administration could face a major task in seeking to overcome "fear of the unknown" as it campaigns this fall to win support for the plan.
With his call for cooperation, Mr. Clinton displayed some of the wounds of a man still bruised by the battle over his budget plan. He portrayed Washington as too fixated on "process instead of product" and too preoccupied with trying to "beat each other up" and said he was determined not to relive the bitter partisanship of the six-month budget fight.
He today that he was convinced that "what this nation really needs is a vital center -- one committed to fundamental and profound and relentless and continuing change."
Mr. Clinton said today that he was "absolutely convinced" that Republicans and Democrats could find common ground in overhauling the bloated health care system "if we can meet around a table without regard to party and listen to the facts and work through it."
 
Business Objections
 In defending the mandate requiring employers to provide health care for their workers, the President appeared to be responding in particular to sharp criticisms made today by Gov. Carroll A. Campbell, Republican of South Carolina, and John Motley, vice president and chief lobbyist for the National Federation of Independent Business, who portrayed the requirement as potentially devastating.
Governor Campbell, the incoming chairman of the group, told his fellow governors shortly before Mr. Clinton arrived that such an approach "could really chill our already lukewarm economy."
And Mr. Motley, whose organization represents 600,000 small businessmen, warned that the plan would have "immense consequences" for employers.
But the President assured the governors that his plan would serve to lessen that blow.
In outlining the details of that effort, Ira C. Magaziner, Mr. Clinton's top health care adviser, told reporters later that the mandate requiring all employers to pay 80 percent of employees' health insurance costs would be phased in only over five to seven years.
He said all employers would be given "a couple years' notice" before the obligation took effect, and said a Government subsidy would limit the health care cost for businesses employing four workers or less to no more than 3.5 percent of their payrolls. He said the payment for larger enterprises would rise to a maximum of 7 percent of payroll, the estimated real cost of health premiums for their employees.
To provide the subsidies, Mr. Magaziner said the White House intended to establish a fund of $30 million to $40 billion from savings in Federal medical programs including Medicare and Medicaid that are generated by the overhaul. He said one reason that the plan would be phased in slowly was that time would be needed to allow those savings to accumulate.
Just how the savings would be achieved in programs that have already been cut in the recently passed budget plan was not explained.
In his speech, Mr. Clinton also said that a plan to provide a prescription drug subsidy for low-income Medicare recipients not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid would also be phased in over time.
But it was not clear whether this implied that drug coverage would not be part of the plan's basic coverage for all Medicare recipients or all citizens, either immediately or ever. An Administration official said tonight that no decision had been reached on whether prescription drugs would be covered under the basic plan available to all Americans.
Nor did Mr. Clinton say whether other steps would be taken to require pharmaceutical companies to reduce the costs of their products, and White House officials said it was unclear whether that would be part of his proposal.
Mr. Magaziner said the White House had reached no final decision about whether the new cigarette or alcohol taxes would be needed to provide for the costs of long-term care for the elderly and those with disabilities.
But he said the Administration may need revenues "in the high single digits or low double digits" of billions of dollars a year, a goal that if met through cigarette taxes alone would require raising the Federal tax to $1 per pack from the current 24 cents .
 
Fondness for Former Post
 Mr. Clinton delivered his speech during a quick break from a vacation he began last weekend in Vail, Colo., and resumed tonight in Springdale, Ark., where he, his wife, Hillary, and their daughter, Chelsea, are to spend two nights with longtime friends.
The President's visit here also served as a reunion of sorts; he was an active member and onetime chairman of the governors' association during his time in the Arkansas Statehouse. After seven difficult months in Washington, Mr. Clinton spoke today of his nostalgia for that more amiable environment.
"Back East, where I work, consensus is often turned into cave in; people who try to work together and listen to one another instead of beat each other up are accused of being weak, not strong," he complained.
"I miss you," he added later. "I miss this. I miss the way we make decisions. I miss the sort of heart and soul and fabric of life that was a part of every day when I got up and went to work in a state capital. Somehow we've got to bring that back to Washington."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton speaking at a meeting of the nation's governors. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN HEALTH CARE PLAN (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP); SMALL BUSINESS US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); INSURANCE (72%); GOVERNORS (69%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



432 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: Angered by Japan's Barriers, U.S. Apple Growers Retaliate

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WENATCHEE, Wash., Aug. 12

 BODY:
As pampered and protected as nothing else on the American farm, Columbia River apples grown specifically to break a 22-year Japanese trade ban are taking on a blush of red, a few weeks shy of harvest.
But what was supposed to be a celebration of fruit and free trade is fast becoming a major source of friction between Washington and Tokyo. The apple farmers here in the nation's most productive fruit-growing region, who have spent more than decade setting up 3,500 acres of orchards to meet Japan's standards, now say they have been betrayed.
 
Isolated Apple Orchards
 Concerned about protecting its own highly lucrative apple-growing industry, Japan has long insisted that American fruit be free of any insects that might cross the Pacific. American farmers say most of Japan's pest concerns are phony, used as a convenient trade barrier. Still, until now, the Americans have dutifully done everything the Japanese said they would have to do to get their fruit into Japan.
American apple growers planted trees that were isolated from other orchards to minimize possible contact with insects. Special traps for bugs were set up. And some of the fruit has been individually wrapped in paper while still on the tree.
All was set for this year's breakthrough crop. But then, earlier this summer, Japan raised fresh concerns about pests that the American growers say are nonexistent.
Infuriated, the apple farmers of Washington State, who raise half the nation's crop and ship their fruit to 24 countries, including several in Asia, have taken the first step to bring trade sanctions against Japan. They are also talking about smashing Japanese electronic products in symbolic acts of defiance.
And at a recent food fair in Japan, American apple growers had a barren display with a sign that read, "Empty boxes, empty promises."
"We have gone through every hoop they have asked us to go through, and we're just fed up," said Doug Pauly, an apple grower and shipper here. "We've had people tearing out pear trees and vineyards and rose bushes so they wouldn't be near these special orchards. Then, we get this close and the Japanese move the goal posts again. We can't win."
Apples are to Japanese and American trade policy what intercontinental missiles were to the cold war. Both sides have them. They have long been a bargaining chip. And now one side says it is time to put up or shut up.
In Japan, where a single apple can cost up to $5 at a fruit stand, American apples are forbidden by a long-standing agricultural policy that requires importers to prove that the produce is free of insects. The Americans say they have done this, but the Japanese say other scientific concerns remain.
The Americans, from the growers here to the highest reaches of the Clinton Administration, say it is a clear-cut issue. As such, apples have become the symbol of President Clinton's effort to open Japanese markets by appealing to the consumer.
 
Gains for Both Countries
 American apples would be a bargain to the Japanese consumer, while bringing huge profits to growers here. The growers had expected to sell up to 700,000 42-pound boxes, offering Japanese consumers the red and golden Delicious variety of apples at roughly half the price of Japan's major domestically grown variety, the Fuji. If, as expected, the growers were to get from $75 to $100 a box, it would bring them more than four times what they would receive in this country.
Two weeks ago, the Administration demanded that Japan take steps to import American apples beginning with next year's crop.
"The U.S. side, for its part, has bent over backwards to accommodate Japanese concerns," Mickey Kantor, the United States Trade Representative, and Mike Espy, the Secretary of Agriculture, wrote in a letter to Masami Tanabu, Japan's Agriculture Minister. The American officials demanded a "written Japanese commitment" of all the steps needed for apples to get into Japan next year.
The Japanese, who already import a small amount of apples from New Zealand, have yet to respond to the specific complaints of the letter. Nor have they explained why these new insect questions were raised at the 11th hour. In a brief letter to the Clinton Administration they said the recent change in Government in Japan would delay an answer to the questions.
In the past, Japanese agriculture officials raised concerns about the possibility of pests infecting their own fruit if American apples were allowed into Japan. And they have denied that apples were being kept out for political reasons.
"What Japan needs is for the the United States to prove that its apples are safe," KenjiNOr Nakano, a spokesman for the Japanese Embassy in Washington, said in an interview. "This is not a political issue. It is purely a technical one."
With the United States running a $50 billion trade deficit with Japan, apples are a relatively small item on the bargaining table. But, as Mr. Kantor said in his letter, the issue has become "highly symbolic."
He raised the issue last month in talks between the two governments during Mr. Clinton's trip to Japan. In the American view, Japan bans United States apples for only one reason: to protect their own farmers.
Washington State's 3,500 apple farmers produce twice as many apples as their Japanese counterparts. But Japan has more than 10 times as many apple farmers, who raise their fruit on small plots and receive high prices for the produce, primarily Fuji apples.
Nor do they see any market logic behind Japanese protectionism. They contend that Washington apples, marketed for lunch buckets and snacks, would not cut into the markets of Japanese growers because the addition of American varieties would complement the more delicate Japanese product, change eating habits and expand the market.
They point to past food barriers on cherries and beef, which were lifted to the satisfaction of farmers in both countries. The success of Pacific Northwest cherries, which sometimes sell for as much as $1 a cherry in Japan, has fueled the drive by American growers to get into the lucrative Japanese market.
"Here you have an industry that has played by the rules, done everything right, and in the end still cannot get into Japan," said Bill Bryant, an agricultural trade consultant in Seattle. "Now it's becoming symbolic of blatant, unfair trading policies."
Of particular concern to the Japanese officials in the past has been whether American apples might carry a pest known as the coddling moth. The growers here say any such pests are killed during cold storage, when the apples, before shipment, are kept in a dark room at near freezing temperatures with almost no oxygen.
But after the coddling moth issue was satisfied, the Japanese raised a new concern about fire blight, a bacteria that typically infects pears. They wanted to make sure that no pear trees were grown near the apples; the Washington growers complied, planting orchards that were at least 500 meters, or nearly 1,641 feet, from pear trees.
Since then, new pest issues have been raised. "We call it the bug-of-the-month club," Mr. Pauly said.
The Japanese say that even if these pests have not shown up in American fruit, their precaution is warranted by the need to protect their own produce from foreign insects.
Although they demanded that Japan take steps that would lead to apple imports by next year's harvest, some growers here have given up hope that diplomacy will work. They want to use the stick of reciprocal trade sanctions.
As for all those well-tended apples fattening on isolated trees near the Columbia River -- perhaps as many as 25 million pieces of fruit -- the growers say they will try to sell them to some other country. But given the cost it has taken to grow them, they say, they may not break even.

GRAPHIC: Photo: American apple growers say Japan's concern about pests is a convenient trade barrier to protect farmers in Japan. "We have gone through every hoop they have asked us to go through, and we're just fed up," said Doug Pauly, an apple grower in Wenatchee, Wash. He checked a bug trap. (Therese Frare for The New York Times) (pg. A13)
 
Map of Washington showing location of Wenatchee. (pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA RIVER CARBONATES (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN; WASHINGTON (STATE) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: APPLES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PESTICIDES AND PESTS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ELECTRONICS; INDUSTRY PROFILES APPLE ORCHARDS (96%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (92%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (78%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); ELECTRONICS (74%); PESTICIDES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



433 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Drops Against Yen, Trading Near 100 in Tokyo

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Tuesday, Aug. 17

 BODY:
The dollar continued to sink against the Japanese yen in trading here today, coming extremely close to reaching 100 yen to the dollar before rebounding in the late afternoon.
Indeed, at one point today the dollar hit 100.20 yen, another record low. But by late afternoon, the dollar had surged to 101.35, which was a tenth of a yen above its Tokyo close on Monday. The dollar finished at 101.62 yen in New York on Monday, down 0.23 yen. 
 The dollar had opened somewhat stronger this morning and there seemed at first to be some psychological resistance to reaching so-called parity, when one yen will be worth one cent. The dollar traded as high as 101.80 yen.
But then a Japanese news agency reported that an unidentified Japanese Government official anticipated that the dollar would go below 100 yen soon. Market sentiment shifted abruptly and the dollar began sinking.
"It seemed like the bottom fell out," said Richard H. Hardesty, vice president for foreign exchange at Chase Manhattan Bank's Tokyo branch. He added, "I think the overall sense is that it's really only a question of time before we break through 100."
The seemingly inexorable fall of the dollar and rise of the yen has set off alarm bells here that export-oriented industries will be severely hurt and Japan's economic slump prolonged.
Business leaders called on the Government of the new Prime Minister, Morihiro Hosokawa, to take whatever steps are necessary to stop the yen's rise and counter the negative economic effects of the currency situation. The Government has called a meeting on Thursday of concerned Cabinet members to discuss actions to cope with the yen's rise.
Mr. Hosokawa said this morning that while the yen's rise was "really worrisome," Tokyo was not yet ready to ask other nations to join in concerted action to stabilize currency values.
The United States and Europe have so far not shown much interest in arresting the yen's rise, in part because a stronger yen is seen as a way of reducing Japan's huge trade surplus.
One reason the yen has risen so sharply, dealers and economists said, is precisely because there has been no sign of support for a weaker yen from Japan's trading partners. While there had been reports since last week that the Bank of Japan was intervening in the market to stem the yen's rise, the intervention has not been effective because it has not been joined by the Federal Reserve of the United States and other central banks.
"The conspicuous absence of any intervention by any other central bank is seen as a de facto endorsement of the higher yen," said Mineko Sasaki-Smith, senior economist for Morgan Stanley & Company in Japan.
A few months ago, Clinton Administration officials had said the yen's rise would work to cut Japan's trade surplus with the United States, and those remarks were interpreted by currency traders as a wish for a stronger yen. More recently, the Administration has refrained from commenting publicly but its view that a stronger yen is desirable is believed not to have changed.
The higher yen would make Japanese exports of such products as cars and camcorders more expensive on world markets. It could also make imported American and European products less expensive in Japan.
Beyond this direct action on the trade surplus, the rising yen is putting pressure on the Japanese Government to stimulate its economy and to deregulate industries and allow more imports into the country so that consumers can benefit from lower prices. Any such deregulatory or stimulatory measures would also help reduce Japan's trade surplus with the United States and the rest of the world.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
German Mark Surges
 By The Associated Press
 The dollar fell sharply against the German mark yesterday, pulled down in part by its growing weakness against the Japanese yen.
In New York, the dollar lost 2.4 pfennigs against the mark, falling to 1.6870 marks.
Gold prices rose in reaction to the weakness in the dollar. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August delivery gained $3.80 an ounce, to $373.10. December gold, the most actively traded contract, also gained $3.80 an ounce, to $376.40.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (60%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (60%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS CURRENCIES (91%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BANK BRANCHES (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



434 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
A.T.& T. will acquire McCaw Cellular, the nation's biggest cellular-telephone company, for $12.6 billion. The deal could profoundly alter telecommunications in the United States and give A.T.& T. control of a vast wireless network that would blur the line between local and long-distance service. [Page A1.]
McCaw Cellular's founder, Craig O. McCaw, became a billionaire and capped a swashbuckling career of high-technology gambles that did not look smart until recently. [D1.] There are big winners and big losers in the A.T.& T.-McCaw deal, and investors have a chance to take new positions. [D18.] 
 Warren E. Buffett asked regulators for permission to raise his stake in Salomon to between 15 percent and 24.9 percent. Stock in the firm, which he once headed, spurted on the news. [D1.]
Warner-Lambert will stop making many drugs while outside experts determine whether its plants meet F.D.A. regulations. [D3.]
Continental Airlines will lay off 2,500 workers, ground 30 planes and halt service to nine American and overseas cities. It also reported a $24.4 million loss. [D3.]
Reynolds Metals will cut primary aluminum production 9 percent and slash 350 jobs to counter world oversupply. [D3.]
Investors led by Robert Bass completed the purchase of eight food companies from a Dutch conglomerate for $1.1 billion. [D4.]
The proposal to take Donna Karan public reflects the strains among the fashion company's founding investors. [D4.]
PSI Resources accepted a sweetened takeover bid from Cincinnati Gas and Electric, as a price war erupted with Ipalco. [D4.]
Pottery Barn returned to basics after sales sank when it replaced moderately priced accessories with fancier ones. [D2.]
Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield wants some customers to enter managed care plans or face rate increases. [B1.]
 
Markets
Long-term interest rates fell to their lowest level in two decades. The 30-year Treasury yield dropped to 6.30 percent. [D1.]
The dollar fell closer to 100 Japanese yen, dropping sharply in Tokyo trading today. [D1.]
Stocks gained, with the Nasdaq and Amex indexes setting new highs. The Dow industrials rose 9.50 points, to 3,579.15. [D6.]
Wheat prices advanced on the Chicago Board of Trade. [D16.]
 
International
Japan's refusal to import American apples because they might carry pests has enraged Washington State growers. [A1.]
The North American Free Trade Agreement won the support of a group of Republican and Democratic governors. [D2.]
The Administration is quietly working in Asia to forge new economic links through security and trade agreements. [A11.]
The global B.C.C.I. investigation is not expected to end with the acquittal over the weekend of Robert A. Altman. [A12.]
 
The Economy
Employers would be required to provide health insurance for all employees under the broad outlines of national health care changes announced by President Clinton. [A1.]
Purveyors of luxury goods welcomed the repeal of the two-year-old tax on jewelry, furs, expensive boats and planes. [D1.]
Industrial production increased four-tenths of 1 percent in July after a two-month decline, helped by electricity demand. [D2.]
 
Today's Columns
Coca-Cola is unofficially reviewing its Diet Coke account, entertaining ideas from seven shops including Lintas New York, the brand's agency since 1982. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D1.]
Health and drug companies with Puerto Rico plants will pay $1.88 billion more in tax under the new budget. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (62%); UAL (NYSE) (55%); DUK (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (62%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (62%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (73%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (65%); CME GROUP INC (62%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (55%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (73%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (87%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (85%); TAKEOVERS (79%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); US DOLLAR (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (68%); AIRLINES (67%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (67%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (67%); BOND MARKETS (67%); GRAIN MARKETS (67%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (66%); FASHION & APPAREL (64%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); SECURITIES TRADING (63%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (56%); ROBERT BASS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



435 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: One Verdict Reached on Detroit Officers

BYLINE: By DON TERRY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 16

 BODY:
One verdict was reached today in the racially tense trial of three white former police officers charged in the death of a black motorist here last November, but the decision was sealed until all the verdicts are in.
The verdict was reached shortly after closing arguments in the case of Robert Lessnau, who had declined a jury trial and asked that a judge decide his fate. Separate juries began deciding the cases of his two co-defendants on Friday. 
 Until now, Mr. Lessnau had been somewhat of a minor player in the drama unfolding in Courtroom 402 for 11 weeks. Of the three officers, Mr. Lessnau was charged with the least serious offense, assault with the intent to do great bodily harm. So his case has been overshadowed by those of his former colleagues, Larry Nevers and Walter Budzyn, who were charged with second-degree murder and face life in prison if convicted on those counts.
 
'I've Heard Enough From You'
 Their juries went into the third day of deliberations today as the prosecution and defense made their final arguments in the Lessnau case.
At one point in the closing arguments, Judge George W. Crockett 3d seemed to sum up the feelings of this anxious city when he told both lawyers, "I've heard enough from you."
After court today, Mr. Lessnau, who is 33, nervously paced the halls or sat on the edge of a bench with his relatives. The mood in the rest of the city, where this case is sometimes likened to the Rodney G. King beating case in Los Angeles, is harder to gauge. Jeffrey G. Collins, a lawyer and host of a cable television program on the trial, said, "It's tense but hopeful."
"I don't think we're anticipating a violent reaction" like the riots that followed the original acquittals of the four police officers in the King case, he said. "I think everyone expects a conviction on something."
 
No Special Precautions
 Police officials say no special precautions are being taken to prepare for the verdicts. But local television stations plan live coverage when they are announced.
The Rev. Jim Holley, president of the Detroit Council of Baptist Pastors, said the death of the motorist, Malice Green, a 35-year-old unemployed steel worker, had shocked and saddened the city, which is more than 70 percent black.
"He represented a lot of young black people in the city," Mr. Holley said. "It could have been any one of our children or any one of our adults."
But he said he expected only small pockets of violence if there was any at all. Unlike blacks in Los Angeles, he said, black Detroit residents seem to have more faith in the government and the court system because the people who run these institutions mirror the city's population.
The two juries are made up mostly of blacks, the judge is black, one defense lawyer is black, as is one prosecutor, and the police department is more than 50 percent black. Both the Mayor, Coleman A. Young, and the police chief are also black. In addition, the prosectors in this case have mainly argued that the officers overstepped their bounds.
 
'Landscape Has Changed'
 Another clergyman, the Rev. William Cunningham, said that the trial had a good mix of races and that "without a card, you couldn't tell the players."
"The landscape has changed," he said. "The whole political environment has changed."
In case not everyone has enough faith in the system, Mr. Holley sent a letter last week to the leaders of the city's 2,200 churches, asking them to urge their members to keep the peace, regardless of the trial's outcome.
When the city will learn the outcome is hard to say. The juries have requested extensive trial transcripts, which may take up to a week to prepare.
They have testimony from 50 witnesses about what happened on the night of Nov. 5, 1992, when two plainclothes officers, Mr. Nevers and Mr. Budzyn, confronted Mr. Green, parked in front of a crack house on the city's west side and asked for his driver's license. At some point Mr. Green refused to show the officers what he held in his hand and a struggle ensued.
 
Witnesses Tell of Beating
 During the trial, Mr. Nevers, 53, testified that he struck Mr. Green with his flashlight when Mr. Green tried to grab his gun. Mr. Budzyn, 47, testified that he had never hit Mr. Green and did not see who had.
Medical experts testified that Mr. Green had died from at least 12 blows to the head, and several witnesses said that both officers had slammed their heavy flashlights into Mr. Green's head.
Mr. Lessnau arrived near the end of the confrontation. Witnesses said he pulled Mr. Green from the car and kicked him at least once in the back and the face as he lay handcuffed and dying in the street.
During closing arguments today, Mr. Lessnau's lawyer, Fred B. Walker, said his client had pulled Mr. Green out of the car and away from the confrontation with the other officers and did not use undue force in handcuffing a struggling suspect.
Out on West Warren Street, where Mr. Green was beaten, Vincent Williams, 33, said, "I'm scared of the verdict and what might happen." Holding his hand just below his chin, he added: "They murdered that man and everybody is full up to here. Everybody is tired of not being treated equal."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judge George W. Crockett 3d, filling in the verdict form in the case of Robert Lessnau. The decision was sealed until the verdicts on his co-defendants are in. (Pool photo/Richard Lee)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DETROIT (MICH) UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; POLICE; BRUTALITY AND HARASSMENT CHARGES; TRIALS VERDICTS (94%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); MURDER (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (78%); RIOTS (73%); ACQUITTAL (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); POPULATION SIZE (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (60%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON; GREEN, MALICE; LESSNAU, ROBERT; CROCKETT, GEORGE W 3D (JUDGE); NEVERS, LARRY; BUDZYN, WALTER MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



436 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2447 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON'S HEALTH PLAN;
Excerpts From President's Speech to Governors on Health Care

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 16

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a speech on health care that President Clinton gave today in Tulsa, Okla., to the National Governors' Association, as recorded by the Federal News Service, a transcription company:
I never want to go through another six months where we have to get all of our votes within one party, and where the other party has people that want to vote with us, and they feel like they've got to stay, and the whole issue revolves around process instead of product, political rhetoric instead of personal concern for what's going to happen to this country. There's plenty of blame to go around. As far as I'm concerned, there'll be plenty of credit to go around. I don't much care who gets the credit for this health care reform as long as we do it.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Nobody wants to mess up what is good with American health care. We must preserve it and preserve it with a vengeance. But we also know what is not so good. 
 I want today to tell you what I think we should do. Next month, I will outline a plan to Congress that will offer real hope for all Americans who want to work and take responsibility and create opportunities for themselves and their children. I think the elements of that plan ought to be as follows:
One, we've got to provide health care security to people who don't have it. That means not just those who don't have health insurance coverage now, but those who are at risk of losing it. I don't know how many people I met last year all over this country, all kinds of people, who knew they would never be able to change jobs again because someone in their family had been sick. I don't know how many other people I met who couldn't afford their health insurance package because there was someone in their job unit that they needed to get rid of in order to be able to afford it. We have got to have a system of universal coverage that provides security to Americans.
Second, I think we have to have a system of managed care that maintains the private sector, organizes Americans in health alliances operated within each state, contains significant new incentives for prevention and for wellness and against overutilization, and that has a budget, so that the competition forces should keep things within the budget, but ultimately, especially in the early years, there must be some limit.
I will say again, if we don't change this, we're going to go from 14 to 19 percent of our income going to health care by the end of the decade. It is going to be very difficult for us to compete and win in a global economy with that sort of differential.
Third, there must be insurance reform. There has to be a basic package of benefits; there needs to be community rating; there has to be some opportunity -- I heard Governor Wilson talking about this before I came out -- for pooling for small employers. We cannot permit price differentials that exist today to get worse instead of better simply because of the size of the work units.
 
Cutting Paper Work
 And finally, in this connection, if we do these things, there will be massive cuts in paperwork because you won't have to have every health unit in this country trying to keep up with thousands of different options and all the myriad complexities that flow from that.
We won't have another decade when clerical employment in the health care area grows four times faster than health care providers. No one believes that that is a very sound investment in our nation's future.
Next, we have to have significant -- significant -- increases, not decreases, in investment and research and technology.
Next, in my judgment, we should attempt to take the health care costs of the worker's comp system and the auto insurance system into this reform. That might be the biggest thing we could do for small businesses. It would also perhaps be the biggest thing we could do to reduce some of the inequalities -- some of you might not like this and others would love it -- but the inequalities in economic incentives that various states can offer because of the dramatic differences in worker's comp costs from state to state, occasioned more than anything else by the health care burden of worker's comp.
Next, I think that we should have 100 percent tax deductibility, not 25 percent tax deductibility, for self-employed people. And that will be a part of the plan we will offer to Congress, something that will increase the capacity of people who are self-employed to maintain health insurance, whether they're farmers or independent business people.
And finally, I think the states must have a strong role and essentially be charged with the responsibility and given the opportunity to organize and establish the health groups of people who will be able to purchase health care under the managed care system.
I think we should expand options for people of low incomes on Medicare but not poor enough to be on Medicaid to get a prescription-drug benefit phased-in over a period of years. Similarly, I think we must do the same thing with long-term care. But as we provide more long-term care opportunities for the elderly and for persons with disabilities, we must also expand the options so that they can get the least costly, most appropriate care. . . .
And finally, I think there has to be some responsibility in this system for everyone. There are a lot of people today that get a free ride out of the present system who can afford to pay something. I think there should be individual responsibility. I think every American should know that health care is not something paid for by the tooth fairy, that there is no free ride; that people should understand that this system costs a lot of money -- it should cost a lot of money; it ought to be the world's best. But we should all be acutely aware of the cost each of us impose on it.
But I also believe that in order to make individual responsibility meaningful, and in order to control the costs of this system, there has to be some means of achieving universal coverage. If you don't achieve universal coverage, in my judgment, you will not be able to control the costs adequately. Why? Well, for one thing, you'll continue to have cost shifting. If you have uncompensated care, the people who give it will shift the cost to the private sector or to the government, and that will create significant economic dislocations.
Now, it seems to me, there -- we have four options, if you believe -- you have to decide, if you believe everybody should be covered, you have only four options. And I would argue that three of them are not -- at least based on what I have seen and heard -- very good options in practice as opposed to in theory.
 
Single Payer System
 Option No. 1 is to go to a single payer system, like the Canadians do, because it has the least administrative cost. That would require us to replace over $500 billion in private insurance premiums, with nearly that much in new taxes. I don't think that's a practical option. I don't think that is going to happen. And you talk about---- That would be significantly dislocating in the sense that overnight, in a nation this size, you'd have all the people who are in the insurance business out of it unless they were in the business of managing the health care plans themselves, as more and more are doing.
Option No. 2 would be to have an individual mandate rather than a mandate that applies to employers and to employees, saying that every individual's got to buy health insurance, and here are some insurance reforms to make sure you can get it. This approach has found some favor in the United States Congress, primarily among Republicans, but not exclusively, because it has the appeal of not imposing a business mandate, which has a bad sound to it. Here's the problem with that, it seems to me.
If you have an individual mandate, on whom is it imposed? And don't you have to give some subsidy to low-income workers just the way you'll have to give some subsidy to low-income businesses if there's an employer mandate? Who gets it and who doesn't? And if you impose an individual mandate, what is to stop every other employer in America from just dumping his employees or her employees, to have a sweeping and extremely dislocating set of -- chain of events start? So it seems to me that there are a lot of questions that have to be asked and answered before we can embrace the concept of an individual mandate.
The third thing you could do is not worry about it. You could just say, "Well, we'll have all these other reforms and just hope that everybody -- that you could lower the cost of insurance and simplify the premiums and have big pools -- that sooner or later somehow everybody will be covered."
The problem is that there is a lot of evidence that some people will still seek a free ride. And make no mistake about it, people that never see themselves as free riders still ride the system, because everybody in this country who needs health care eventually gets it. It may be too late; it may be too expensive.

 	 	 		. . .	 	So I don't think we can rationally expect to stop cost shifting or to have a fair system if we say we're going to organize all this and just hope everybody will get into it. That leaves the fourth alternative, which is to build on the system we now have.
The system we now have works for most Americans. Most Americans are insured under a system in which employers pay for part of the health insurance and employees pay for part of the health insurance, and it's worked pretty well for them except for the laundry list of problems that we talked about. But most Americans are covered under it. What are the problems with doing this?
Well, first of all, if you just passed an employer mandate and did nothing else, there'd be a ton of problems in doing it because the vulnerable businesses would have the highest premiums, and a bunch of them would really be in deep trouble. No one proposes to do that. In other words, an employer mandate itself would not be responsible unless you also had significant insurance reforms, a long period of phase-in, and a limitation on how much the premium could be for very small businesses or businesses with very low-wage workers that obviously are operating on narrow profit margins.

 	 	 		. . .	 	There may be some other issue, but I see only those four options for dealing with this. And it seems to me the shared responsibility, in a fair way, of employer and employee, building on the system we have now, which works, taking proper account of the need to phase it in and to maintain limits on lower-income and lower-wage employment units, is the fairest way to go.
Now, it seems to me that all this will be discussed and debated in the Congress. The governors will be a part of it. But the first decision we have to make is whether we can fool around with this for another 10 or 20 years or whether the time has come to act. Just consider this one fact: If health care costs had been held in check -- that is, to inflation plus growth -- since 1980, state and local governments would have on average of 75 percent more funding for public school budgets. In 1993, fiscal year 1993, states spent more on Medicaid than on higher education for the first time. And state spending on Medicaid is expected to jump from $31 billion in 1990 to $81 billion in 1995 if we don't change this system.

 	 	 		. . .	 	And let me say again, everybody who says, "Well, this is just too complicated and this is too much trouble and it's too hard to think about," ought to consider the consequences of doing nothing. Doing nothing means more people lose their coverage, and those who don't will pay too much for their coverage. Doing nothing means that all those uninsured and under-insured Americans will be covered by vast outlays by state, local and Federal governments. And the rest of us will pay more at the doctor's office, the hospital and our own businesses. Doing nothing means insurers will continue to be able to charge prices that are too high to those who don't have the good fortune of being in very large buying cooperatives, and that the paperwork burden of this system, I will say again, will continue to be a dime on the dollar more than any other country in the world. We cannot sustain that sort of waste and inefficiency.

 	 	 		.. .	 	We have focused this debate only on the minority of people who don't have health insurance and don't cover their employees and assumed that we would lay some mandate on them and make no other structural changes. I wouldn't be for that. You couldn't be for that. Although at least that would stop the cost shifting, it would not be enough. That is not what we propose.
 
'We Can Make This Work'
 But if you do this right and we phase it in so that as we deal with problems, we find them, we can correct them---- If the states are dealing with the management side of this through these health alliances, we can make this work. It just defies common sense to say that we can't maintain the world's finest health care system, stop all this cost shifting, bring our costs back at some competitive level, cover everybody and create jobs. We'll still, no matter what happens, we'll be spending a lot more than any other country on health care at the end of the decade, but we'll be protecting people and we'll be working with them.
I'm convinced that the biggest problem we've got right now is the fear of the unknown and the exaggeration into the unknown of what, in fact, is already known. To say that we're talking about some untried, untested thing ignores the experience of Hawaii, ignores the experience of every other country that we're competing with, ignores what we know about how our private sector could actually manage the problem better in some ways than Germany and Japan have managed it, and basically is rooted in our, somehow, our lack of belief that we can overcome all the ideological divides and the rhetorical barbs and the fears that are gripping us.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Surely to goodness, we can stop wringing our hands and roll up our sleeves and solve this problem. And surely we can do it without the kind of rhetoric and air-filling bull that we hear so often in the nation's capital. We can do it.
Now, I miss---- I miss you. I miss this. I miss the way we make decisions. I miss the sort of heart and soul and fabric of life that was a part of every day when I got up and went to work in a state capital. Somehow, we've got to bring that back to Washington.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Before making his speech to the National Governors' Association, President Clinton spoke with Gov. Tom Carper of Delaware. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN AMERICAN HEALTH CARE CENTERS (55%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH GOVERNORS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGETS (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); TOM CARPER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



437 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeking New Asian Trade and Security Links

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 16

 BODY:
Reflecting what Secretary of State Warren Christopher calls a new "primacy" for Asia in American policy, the Clinton Administration is quietly working with the economically vital region to forge links through security and trade agreements.
But State Department officials and Asian leaders concede that even as Washington turns more toward Asia, it is difficult to keep its gaze focused across the Pacific with Bosnia and the Mideast soaking up its attention. 
 As if to underscore the point, two days after Mr. Christopher said on a trip to Singapore that Asia had gained "primacy" in foreign policy, he had to cut short his trip and rush home to deal with the violence in southern Lebanon and the siege of Sarajevo.
 
'On the Back Burner'
 "If you're not a crisis area, if you're good guys, then you're put on the back burner in official Washington," said Tommy T. B. Koh, Singapore's Ambassador at large, and its former Ambassador to the United States. "It doesn't mean that you're not important."
So far, the arrangements are loose, informal and, in the Asian tradition, evolving slowly. Efforts are bring made to build the links through existing, although loosely organized, groups.
"The Asian preference, unlike the Western preference, is to take a very non-legalistic approach to things," said Mr. Koh. "We take actions step by step and allow things to evolve, rather to sit down and say, a priori, we want to create an institution, this is our charter, this is our mission statement."
One of the more solid plans is for the first Pan-Pacific summit meeting, planned for November in Seattle. It would bring together the heads of state of members of Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation, known as APEC.
The organization, established in 1989, includes Australia, Brunei, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and the United States.
 
Talks in Singapore
 Strengthening APEC and another group, the Asean Regional Security Forum, were a major focus of discussions by Mr. Christopher and Pacific Basin leaders in Singapore in conjunction with annual meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, known as Asean.
At a news conference last week, former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, the new ambassador to Japan, said that the Administration is also trying to fit American-Japanese relations into a regional structure. While calling the United States-Japan relationship "the key, the core," Mr. Mondale said, "we're trying to broaden the focus to include a more vigorous approach to regional mutual concerns and to concerns that cross the whole Asian Pacific region through APEC."
The idea of regional groups is also being pushed by Asian leaders who fear that America will scale back its military presence, leaving a worrisome vacuum.
To increase stability in the region so that economic ties can grow, the leaders are discussing the establishment of a regional security structure, similar to the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
 
Focus on Economics
 For the Clinton Administration, the focus on Asia goes beyond a normal diplomatic desire to head off any potential problems in what is now a relatively stable region.
The big reason for the increased attention is simple: money. For an Administration whose political life rests squarely on its promise to revive the American economy, the 2.3 million jobs tied to the $120 billion worth of exports to East Asia are riveting facts.
While the Clinton Administration delicately dances towards Asia, leaders on both sides are aware that progress could be brought to a crashing halt by a flare-up in some of the region's hots spots like Cambodia or Korea or over human rights issues. Some advocates say that the Administration's desire to get a part of the action is leading it to mute its criticism of political repression in a number of Asian governments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (98%); SINGAPORE (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); JAPAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; MIDDLE EAST UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (98%); SINGAPORE (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); JAPAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); LEBANON (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FAR EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TRENDS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



438 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Production Grew Moderately in July

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 16

 BODY:
Industrial production increased moderately in July after a two-month decline, helped by hot-weather demand for electricity, the Government said today.
The Federal Reserve Board's industrial production index gained a seasonally adjusted four-tenths of 1 percent in July, following drops of one-tenth of 1 percent in June and two-tenths of 1 percent in May. The Fed also revised previous reports of May, in which output was unchanged, and June, in which output was down two-tenths of 1 percent. 
 Sweltering temperatures in the East and elsewhere early in July kept air-conditioners working overtime. Thus, production at utilities jumped 3.3 percent, helped by a 4 percent gain in the output of electricity.
Economists were expecting the increase, but they warned that the overall number was not as good as it looked.
Manufacturing output advanced a modest two-tenths of 1 percent and production slipped three-tenths of 1 percent in mining, which includes oil drilling.
"The contribution from utilities obviously is not a good thing," said Louis Crandall, an economist with R. H. Wrightson & Associates. "The improvement in utility output will do nothing more than increase electric bills in August and act as a drag on consumer spending."
But, on the positive side, the overall gain in manufacturing came despite a decrease in auto production, which fell 3.7 percent, the third consecutive monthly decline.
Auto makers, in response to stronger sales in May and June, have already scheduled increased production for this month, which will probably continue into the fall. That alone should keep overall industrial production growing, economists said.
"The auto industry seems to have cut back production significantly enough to lay the foundation for future production gains," Mark Zandi, an economist with Regional Financial Associates in West Chester, Pa., said.
In July, production of consumer goods other than autos and trucks advanced strongly, by six-tenths of 1 percent, with output of appliances, televisions and air-conditioners soaring 5.3 percent.
The output of durable goods -- items like cars and computers expected to last three or more years -- increased three-tenths of 1 percent. Production of nondurable goods was unchanged.
The various changes in production left the Fed's index of industrial production at 110.6 percent of its 1987 base in July, up 3.5 percent from a year earlier.
 
Operating Use Up Slightly
 With production increasing, the operating rate for industrial companies edged up to 81.5 percent of capacity, from 81.3 percent in June and matching that of May, but still below April's rate of 81.7 percent, the highest in recent months.
Economists watch capacity use closely for signs of production bottlenecks that could lead to inflation. An overall operating rate below 85 percent is considered noninflationary.
Economists are hoping to see the industrial sector shift out of stagnation. Production had advanced solidly during the fourth quarter of last year, in response to strong sales before Christmas, but has since lapsed.
Mr. Zandi said he expected production to be better during the second half of the year but warned that job growth in manufacturing might remain slow. "Many manufacturers came close to going under in the recession or saw others actually go under," he said. "They've been chastened and as a result they're not going to be aggressive about expanding their operations."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Capacity Utilization" tracks total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted, since February 1992; "Industrial Production" tracks index of total industrial production, seasonally adjusted, over the same period. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



439 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Zoning Rules Altered to Cover the Waterfront

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Approving the first zoning rules specifically for the waterfront, the New York City Planning Commission yesterday said it was signaling its desire for more public access and less high-rise development along the shoreline.
The rules could shape decades of construction on the city's 578-mile waterfront by requiring that developers of certain large residential projects open 15 percent to 20 percent of their land to the public. The rules also limit building heights in certain zoning districts from 110 to 350 feet, or about 11 to 35 stories.
 
Sending a Message
 Although the text of the zoning amendment, which was approved unanimously, did not specify the areas in which given rules would apply, planners said a general message was intended. 
 "The text effectively says, 'The megaproject is dead,' " said Marilyn Mammano, director of zoning and urban design for the City Planning Department. "We're looking for reasonably scaled projects with public access on the waterfront."
To take effect, the rules must be approved by the City Council, which has 50 days to consider them.
The stakes are high enough that negotiations continued until moments before the commission's vote.
The approval of the new rules follows years of pitched battles over waterfront development among neighborhood groups, real-estate interests and city officials. Fueling these fights, in part, was the absence of any zoning or planning standards by which projects could be judged.
"We came to decisions, but we didn't have a framework," said Eugenie L. Birch, a mayoral appointee to the planning commission, as she cast her vote. Instead, she said, projects like Brighton by the Sea in Brooklyn and Riverside South in Manhattan were considered "in a vacuum."
Richard L. Schaffer, the chairman of the planning commission, said that the city's overall zoning law, known as the Zoning Resolution, "breaks down at the water's edge." He called the new rules "an unprecedented zoning text amendment that will -- for the first time -- put the waterfront in the Zoning Resolution."
Yet the impact of many of the new rules will be impossible to assess until city planners actually apply them to specific areas along the waterfront. Such "mappings" are months, if not years, away.
For instance, in the lowest density districts of single-family houses, there would be no public access requirement. In lower- to medium-density districts of multifamily homes and small apartment buildings, 15 percent of the lot area would have to be set aside in developments involving at least 1.5 acres of land and at least 600 feet of shoreline.
But in the highest-density residential districts, 20 percent of the lot area would have to be set aside in developments involving at least 20,000 square feet of land, a little less than half an acre, and 100 feet of shoreline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ZONING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL LAND USE PLANNING (92%); CITIES (91%); ZONING (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); MAYORS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



440 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: McCall Dismisses 4 Aides for New Deputy

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 16

 BODY:
State Comptroller H. Carl McCall has dismissed four senior members of the office responsible for auditing New York City's finances, leading Republicans to charge that he is trying to protect Mayor David N. Dinkins.
Mr. McCall's spokesman, Marvin G. Nailor, said, however, that the Comptroller was simply cleaning house so that his new deputy compotroller for New York City can assemble her own team. 
 Mr. McCall, a Democrat, was elected by the Legislature in May to replace Edward V. Regan, a Republican who resigned. He later appointed Rosemary Scanlon as his deputy for New York City. The State Senate has not yet confirmed her appointment.
Those dismissed from the New York City office are Joan Westmeyer, director of the Bureau of Agency Analysis; Jeanne Ostrow, assistant director of that bureau; Brian Perlee, director of the Office of Fiscal and Economic Analysis, and Norman Gertneer, assistant director of that office. The dismissals were first reported today in The Bond Buyer.
Some Republican leaders suggested that Mr. McCall was weakening the New York City office in order to control its occasional criticism of Mr. Dinkins's fiscal practices.
Mr. Dinkins appointed Mr. McCall to the New York City Board of Education, a job he gave up to become Comptroller. Mr. McCall's wife, Joyce Brown, is a Deputy Mayor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: COMPTROLLER, OFFICE OF THE STATE (NYS)

ORGANIZATION: COMPTROLLER, OFFICE OF THE STATE (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING DISMISSALS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); 

PERSON: MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); WESTMEYER, JOAN; OSTROW, JEANNE; PERLEE, BRIAN; GERTNEER, NORMAN; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



441 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: To Governors, All Eyes on Clinton's Fight Ahead

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TULSA, Okla., Aug. 16

 BODY:
The passage from President Clinton's speech that drew the heartiest applause from the nation's governors today was not about the substance of his health care package but about the politics of getting it passed.
Straying far from his text, Mr. Clinton declared: "Surely, we can do it without the kind of rhetoric and air-filling bull that we hear so often in the nation's capital." 
 But many of the President's aides must not have heard his admonition to the National Governors' Association; they were too busy pumping out more material. Even before the governors' applause had died down, Democrats were issuing a point-by-point "fact sheet" to knock down remarks made earlier today by John J. Motley, the chief lobbyist for the National Federation of Independent Business and a leading critic of Mr. Clinton's proposal.
Mr. Motley said the Clinton plan would have "immense consequences for employers," especially small businesses. Later, Ira C. Magaziner, a chief Presidential adviser on health care, came out to contradict Mr. Motley.
The speech by the President here today officially opened the marketing of his health care plan, a campaign that promises to be far more extensive than were the White House's sometimes fitful efforts to build public support for its economic package. In that effort the White House had limited success in overcoming Republican contentions that that plan was no more than a tax-raising scheme. But with the health care plan, Democrats vow to move much more quickly to identify the opposition and take it on in the five weeks before Mr. Clinton unveils the package before Congress.
The pitch is directed largely toward middle-class voters, many of whom already have adequate coverage and fear that changing the system may do them more harm than good. It is also intended to overcome campaigns against the plan by pharmaceutical companies and other industry groups.
"The bottom line is, this has to be sold to people who have health insurance if this is to be politically winnable," said David Wilhelm, chairman of the Democratic Party. "I think that we can convince people that after year after year of skyrocking premiums, that we can do something to bring down the costs."
Much of today's opposition came from Republicans, who also sought to get their concerns into play. Haley Barbour, the Republican Party chairman, stressed the fear that a new health plan would result in new taxes. "There was a lot of talk in the meeting about taxes," he said. "I'll tell you that."
 
Opposition Not United
 But the Republicans do not present united opposition on overhauling health care, as they did on the President's economic plan. Many Republican Governors and members of Congress, especially senators, say they genuinely want to support Mr. Clinton's effort.
Yet signs of partisan differences could not have been sharper than they were this morning at the governors' meeting, at the Doubletree Hotel in downtown Tulsa. The Democratic governors met in a suite with Mr. Wilhelm and Roger C. Altman, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, to talk about how to win support for the President's proposal. At the same time, the Republican governors met in a suite down the hall with Mr. Barbour to discuss how they would respond to the plan.
Echoing his colleagues, one Republican Governor, William F. Weld of Massachusetts, emerged from the meeting saying he and his colleagues were for improving health care but not for new taxes. "Certainly," he said, "I think Republican governors are going to oppose tax increases, price controls and oppose cost shifting to the states."
But he added, "That doesn't mean we can't get together on a health care plan."
 
Meeting With Constituents
 While the President was delivering his speech, other Democrats were meeting with their constituents, trying to pull public opinion to his corner. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, was talking up the plan in Hyde Park, Mass.
Representative Mike Synar, an Oklahoma Democrat, said he spent the last several days in his district holding forums on health care. "Republicans better get ahead of this parade," he said. "Those politicians who stand in the way are going to get run over."
It sounded as if Mr. Synar was following guidelines distributed to party members by the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, with instructions on how to carry out grassroots sales campaigns.
One tip from the committee was this: "Dealing with the naysayers -- pro-active inoculation: With a historic and landmark legislation like health care reform, we should anticipate the opposition to the plan to be mobilized, well-funded and strategic in its operation. They will run campaigns against the plan both nationally and in each district. Your organization will need to anticipate which groups in your district are likely to join the opposition and bring them over to our side -- or at least neutralize their activities."
Missing from the sales pitches are specifics. As much as they talk about how they are against new taxes or new mandates for the states, many Republicans have no answers when asked how to finance health care overhaul in the short term. And frightened of the tax-and-spend tag, Democrats are not eager to give their opponents any ammunition. So they are sticking to the simple slogans.
Jeff Eller, a White House communications official, said he and his colleagues had learned after the battle over the economic package that they need to move faster to identify opponents and take them on. As they did for the economic package, the White House and the Democratic Party will each set up command centers to promote the health care plan.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton and Thomas F. McLarty 3d, the White House chief of staff, applauding an address by President Clinton to the National Governors' Association, which started his health care offensive. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; UNITED STATES ECONOMY GOVERNORS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (61%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



442 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Rifkin's Lawyer Seeks Jury From Outside Nassau

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MINEOLA, L.I., Aug. 16

 BODY:
Arguing that Joel Rifkin cannot get a fair trial in Nassau County, his lawyer today proposed bringing in a jury from upstate New York to hear the murder case against him.
Mr. Rifkin is the unemployed landscaper who the New York State Police say has admitted killing 17 women. He was arrested on June 28 when the police found a body in his pickup truck after stopping him for a traffic violation. 
 At a pretrial conference today in State Supreme Court here, Mr. Rifkin's lawyer, Robert Sale, said that his client would seek to have the case moved from Nassau or, failing that, would request that a jury be brought in from another county, possibly upstate. He cited a case in a Florida county that was heard by jurors from a different county.
Because of the publicity the case has attracted, Mr. Sale said, "I do not believe that Joel Rifkin can receive a fair trial anywhere in the state, to some degree, but in Nassau County, certainly not."
The prosecutor, Fred Klein, who handled the Amy Fisher shooting case, disagreed. "This case has certainly gotten nowhere near the media attention that some other cases that have been tried in the county have gotten," he said.
Mr. Sale, who formally notified prosecutors today that he intended to use the insanity defense in the case, told reporters outside the courthouse that he would ask again that any other charges against his client be consolidated into one trial.
 
Agreement on Evidence
 The prosecution today agreed to give the defense a copy of Mr. Rifkin's school records, the results of DNA tests on evidence in the case and a copy of the report of an autopsy performed on the body found in Mr. Rifkin's Mazda pickup truck.
At his arraignment last month, Mr. Rifkin pleaded not guilty to charges of second-degree murder in connection with that case. State investigators said that Mr. Rifkin later confessed to killing 17 young women, who he told the police were prostitutes that he had picked up in lower Manhattan, had sex with and then strangled. The authorities say Mr. Rifkin killed most of the women in Manhattan and dumped their bodies in rivers and woods in a broad swath from eastern Suffolk County to northern Putnam County. No formal charges have been brought against Mr. Rifkin in any other county.
He is undergoing psychiatric evaluation by experts called in by the defense. Once the testing is concluded on September 3, the prosecution will send in its own experts. A pretrial hearing on the psychiatric evaluations was set for October 5.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PUTNAM COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE (51%); POLICE FOUNDATION (57%); POLICE FOUNDATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (57%); POLICE FOUNDATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NASSAU COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SERIAL MURDERS; TRIALS; PROSTITUTION LAWYERS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); MURDER (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); PSYCHIATRY (86%); INSANITY DEFENSE (78%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (78%); ARRESTS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (77%); AUTOPSIES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); WOMEN (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); DNA (64%); DNA TESTING (64%); PROSTITUTION (61%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, JOEL

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



443 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Group of Governors Supports Trade Accord

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TULSA, Okla., Aug. 16

 BODY:
A group of Republican and Democratic governors announced their support today for the North American Free Trade Agreement as President Clinton embarked on a tough battle to push it through Congress.
Several governors said they were satisfied with the side agreements reached last week on environmental and labor issues after discussing them today with Mr. Clinton, who was in Tulsa for the annual conference of the National Governors' Association. 
 Gov. Tommy G. Thompson, a Republican from Wisconsin, said he had raised concerns with Mr. Clinton that the Administration had not been aggressive enough in promoting the plan. But, he said, he was reassured.
 
 
'We Can Start Selling It'
 "We've let the opponents have a field day as far as making up arguments about why we should be opposed to Nafta," Mr. Thompson said at a news conference here. "Ross Perot is a prime example of getting a lot of attention from the media. We haven't had a real product. The product is now here. Now we can start selling it."
Gov. Ann Richards, Democrat of Texas, agreed that governors needed to do more to convince the public and the Congress that the agreement was vital to the economy. "We think somehow by looking east we will find the mecca of economic prosperity," she said. "I would suggest to you that the future front door of the United States lies to the south, on the border of Texas, Arizona and New Mexico and California. That's where we're going to sell our products, and this free-trade agreement is going to help us do that."
The support of governors is important because the Administration needs allies in the states to sell the program to the public and to Congress in the face of stiff opposition from many lawmakers, particularly Democrats. Prospects for passage suffered a significant blow when Richard Gephardt, the House majority leader, said he could not support the accord as it stands with the side agreements.
Mr. Clinton made his brief pitch for the trade agreement during an address to the governors on health care. Most of the governors have expressed support for the pact in one form or another.
 
 
Assurance on Labor
 The President assured the governors that the side agreements on environmental and labor issues would protect this country, asserting that the Mexican Government had tied its minimum wages to productivity and economic growth and that any violations would be subject to fines.
"Nothing like that has ever been found in a trade agreement before," Mr. Clinton said. "It insures that workers on both sides of our border can benefit. And I appreciate the support of the governors for the whole issue of expanding trade."
Before the news conference, the governors' Committee on Economic Development approved a resolution affirming its support for the trade agreement, saying "it represents a positive step toward further opening the North American market for U.S. exporters."
But the resolution said that "states must have a role in formulating the domestic implementation of Nafta and its side agreements because they have the primary responsibility for items such as setting environmental standards, issuing permits and enforcing compliance with these provisions."
During the discussion of the resolution, Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia, a Democrat, said he was not sure he could back the trade accord. "It's not a partisan thing," he said. "There is a real founded fear that there will be a job loss. I'd have to be very concerned with anything that would affect the present economy."
 
 
Misinformation Cited
 Roger Altman, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, told the economic committee of the governors that there had been too much misinformation put out by opponents of the trade agreement, and he singled out Mr. Perot for criticism. The Texan is often quoted for his comment that there would be a "giant sucking sound" of jobs leaving the country if the agreement was approved.
"His opposition reminds me of the Luddites in England who opposed the Industrial Revolution," Mr. Altman said. "We intend to fight tooth and nail for this agreement."
Other governors who announced their support for the agreement included these Republicans: Jim Edgar of Illinois, Kirk Fordice of Mississippi and William F. Weld of Massachusetts. Democratic Governors who offered their support were William Donald Schaefer of Maryland, Roy Romer of Colorado, Bruce King of New Mexico and E. Benjamin Nelson of Nebraska.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); MEXICO (91%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN ; REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY ACCORD AS (64%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN ; REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO; CANADA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); MEXICO (91%); CANADA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GOVERNORS (US); ENVIRONMENT; LABOR TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); GOVERNORS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SALES & SELLING (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (92%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



444 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Long-Term Rates Fall To 6.30%

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Long-term interest rates fell to their lowest level in two decades yesterday, as predictions of a retrenchment after last week's quarterly Treasury auction have yet to prove true.
At the same time, shorter-term interest rates also eased a little as investors and traders became more confident that the Federal Reserve would not move soon to raise those rates to keep inflation from re-emerging. 
 For those dealers who bought during the auction of a record $38.5 billion in 3- and 10-year notes and 30-year bonds last week, the rise in prices on Friday and yesterday helped bring yields below the averages for each of the three auctions. Prices and yields move in opposite directions.
 
 
Secondary Market
 In trading in the secondary market, the price of the new 6.25 percent 30-year bond rose 21/32 point as the yield dropped to 6.30 percent, the lowest in the 16 years since the Treasury began to issue 30-year bonds on a regular basis. The yield is down from 6.35 percent Friday and is the lowest yield on a Treasury security with 30 years to maturity since the beginning of 1973, according to data kept by Salomon Brothers. Last week the new bond was auctioned at an average rate of 6.33 percent.
The yield on the new 5.75 percent 10-year note dropped to 5.68 percent, as the price rose 7/32 point. The yield, which was 5.70 percent on Friday, is a new low for this year and the lowest since April 1971. Last week, the new note was auctioned at an average yield of 5.78 percent.
The rising Treasury prices and falling yields come as the Fed's policy-making committee meets today in one of its regular sessions to review its monetary policy. But because last week's economic data showed inflation rising at an annual rate below the 2.9 percent climb in 1992 and the economy still sluggish, analysts expect no action by the Fed to raise or lower interest rates.
Still, some analysts are predicting that the Fed might reverse a move it made in its May meeting at a time when the pace of inflation was rising at rate faster than last year's.
 
 
Fed's Bias
 In an apparent attempt to convince investors and traders that the Fed would take whatever moves necessary to keep inflation in check, the Fed approved a policy directive that shifted its bias to higher short-term rates from neutral. The shift would have made it easier for the Fed's chairman, Alan Greenspan, to raise the Federal funds rate between the May meeting and the July meeting. The Federal funds rate, which is the overnight interest charged on loans between banks, is the short-term interest rate that the Federal Reserve uses to put into effect its monetary policy.
The reports of a shift to a bias toward higher rates and the subsequent testimony by Mr. Greenspan in July when he made the Fed's semiannual report to Congress, indicated that the Fed was ready to raise rates to curb inflation. And that fear sent short-term rates much higher.
The discount rate on the six-month Treasury bill rose to 3.29 percent in early June, after the Fed's May meeting and then dropped only to jump again to 3.24 percent in July after Mr. Greenspan's testimony. The yield on the two-year Treasury note followed the same pattern, hitting 4.31 percent in June, falling, and then jumping to 4.21 percent after the second wave of Fed fears in July.
With June and July inflation reports showing prices increases are slowing from the more than 4 percent pace at the beginning of the year and with economic growth still slow, the pressure is now off the Fed, and that is why some analysts have predicted a switch back to a neutral bias. And the market has reflected removal of the threat of an interest rate increase with a drop in short-term yields.
In trading yesterday, the discount rate on the six-month bill had fallen back to an average of 3.03 percent at the weekly auction of Treasury bills. And the yield on the two-year note dropped to 3.95 percent, as the price rose 1/32 .
 
 
'Out of the Window'
 "Both the long and short end have figured in that a Fed tightening is out of the window," Stephen Slifer, financial market economist at Lehman Brothers, said.
While he acknowledged that some analysts were betting on the Fed to drop its bias toward higher short-term rates, Mr. Slifer said he would not support such a move because it might backfire by making some investors and traders think that the Fed might not be as tough on inflation as they had thought. Such a backfire could lead to a rise in long-term interest rates, which would run counter to the Fed's goals.
Some traders and analysts had said on Thursday, when the auction of the 30-year bond did not go that well, that the market would probably back off a little, pushing yields higher, until dealers were able to sell a lot of the securities that they bought during last week's auctions.
Mr. Slifer said he was not sure why there had not been such a retrenchment yet. But he suggested that many portfolio managers apparently still had plenty of cash on hand and were ready to buy at the first instant it appeared that prices might be falling slightly.
Because of this lingering demand, although prices and yields are at levels not seen for more than two decades, Mr. Slifer said that any retrenchment might not be large. And he is still forecasting that the yield on the 30-year bond will drop to 6 percent by the end of the year.
Following are the results of the Treasury's auction of three-month and six-month bills yesterday:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.234	98.423	Discounted Rate	3.03%	3.12%	Coupon Yield	3.10%	3.21%	High Price	99.242	98.453	Discounted Rate	3.00%	3.06%	Coupon Yield	3.06%	3.15%	Low Price	99.234	98.423	Discounted Rate	3.03%	3.12%	Coupon Yield	3.10%	3.21%	Accepted at low price	19%	96%	Total applied for	$51,450,071	$52,765,278	Accepted	$12,380,472	$12,201,476	N.Y. applied for	$46,802,179	$49,063,196	N.Y. accepted	$10,894,230	$11,286,778	Noncompetitive	$1,300,723	$947,323	

Both these issues are dated Aug. 19, 1993. The three- month bills mature Nov. 19, 1993, and the six-month bills, Feb. 17, 1994.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since mid-April. (Source: The Bond Buyer) (pg. D14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; TREASURY DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (92%); AUCTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



445 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Taking Some Pain Out of Luxury

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
At least one Park Avenue household is eagerly awaiting a $190,000 refund from the Internal Revenue Service.
That is about how much the financier who lives there paid in Federal "luxury tax" on a $2 million emerald and diamond necklace he bought his wife for their 25th anniversary. 
 The tax bill passed by Congress on Aug. 6 repealed the two-year-old luxury tax on jewelry, furs, expensive boats and private airplanes and promised a refund to all who paid such taxes on items purchased in 1993.
 
Removes Most Items
 The tax, which originated in a budget bill that went into effect in 1991, applied to the portion of retail prices that exceeded certain thresholds: $30,000 for automobiles; $100,000 for private boats and yachts; $10,000 for furs and jewelry, including watches, and $250,000 for private airplanes. All but the automobile tax were repealed by the most recent bill.
Purveyors of luxury goods have welcomed the repeal as a silver lining tucked inside an otherwise gloomy tax package, which contains higher marginal rates for the wealthy, who are their customers.
"We believe the absence of this tax will probably be a catalyst for improved sales," said Burton Tansky, the chairman of Bergdorf Goodman, the exclusive Manhattan specialty store that sells more sable coats than any other store in the city. "Obviously, we're quite happy about the repeal."
There are signs, though, that the repeal may not fully resuscitate the market for high-priced luxury items. Asked how he intended to spend his $190,000 windfall, the New York financier, who asked not to be identified, said glumly, "on higher income taxes."
Still, several merchants who sell goods that have been affected by the tax are determined to push forward with plans to use the repeal as a marketing tool. Hatteras, which bills itself as the world's premier yacht builder, is running advertisements to bring the repeal to the attention of potential customers and offering a rebate on purchases made before Sept. 30. And Cartier, among other luxury goods retailers, is preparing to send letters to clients who are eligible for refunds for taxes they paid on jewelry purchases, explaining that it would be happy to provide the rebates by check or as a store credit.
"Income tax applies to everyone," said Simon Critchell, the president and chief executive of Cartier U.S.A., brushing aside the suggestion that higher income taxes might inhibit spending more than the luxury tax did.
"The luxury tax was discriminatory, and people resented it," he said. "If your idea of luxury was having a $50,000 hi-fi system, you weren't subject to a tax. But if you preferred a $50,000 bracelet, you paid $4,000 extra."
And if your idea of luxury is a $100,000 Mercedes, be prepared to pay about $7,000 in luxury taxes. Congress maintained the luxury tax on automobiles, which have provided by far the largest revenue stream of the five categories that were subject to the 10 percent levy.
(Lawmakers did make a concession on the automobile tax: The threshold, now $30,000, will be indexed to account for inflation.)
When it was passed in 1990, the tax was politically popular in Congress, where lawmakers described it as a way for the Government to extract money from the wealthy to close the budget deficit. But people in some of the affected industries argued that it also affected blue-collar workers and others of modest means, who suffered because their employers lost business.
"It's simple," Lawrence O'Donnell Jr., the chief of staff of the Senate Finance Committee, said of the tax on expensive cars. "It was the only component of the luxury tax that was working as intended and did not seem to be inhibiting sales in any way."
In fact, luxury taxes imposed on cars accounted for 91 percent of the total taxes collected on luxury items in the first six months of last year, the latest data available, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
Mr. O'Donnell said people buying jewels, furs, airplanes and boats either found inventive ways to avoid the taxes or simply decided not to make a purchase.
 
Ways to Get Around Tax
 Many wealthy American customers, for example, made their jewelry purchases at the Cartier stores in Europe to avoid the tax. Some retailers, like Ronald Winston, the president of Harry Winston Inc., said they simply paid the tax themselves to make sales.
Mr. Winston estimated that 90 percent of the purchases in his stores in Manhattan and Beverly Hills exceeded the $10,000 threshold for jewelry. "Most of our clients had to pay something, or in many cases we paid it," he said. "Particularly in New York, where clients had to pay a combined sales and luxury tax of 18.25 percent, it was hard for many of them to accept that an item they were buying for pleasure could incur such extraordinary expense."
Others said the tax on furs and most jewelry was so minimal that customers regarded it as an annoyance rather than a deterrent. Most furs, for example, cost less than the $10,000 tax threshold, and the coats that cost more exceeded the threshold by a few thousand dollars.
"I don't think anyone didn't come in and buy a fur coat because of the tax," said Steven Korn of Steven Korn Furs Inc., which has three stores in the New York area. "Anyone who wanted a fur coat in those price brackets wasn't worried about paying an extra $120 or even $1,000 for it." He said he thought higher income taxes would harm fur sales more than the luxury tax had.
 
Concern Over Economy
 And some are worried that the economy may be the biggest impediment to improving sales.
Jim Gardella, the president of the Norwalk Cove Marina in Norwalk, Conn., said that in the two and a half years the tax was in effect he sold only one boat that was subject to it. "The man called Monday morning and asked when he could get his money back," Mr. Gardella said.
In the years before the luxury tax, he said he sold an average of 50 boats a year that would have been subject to the tax.
Mr. Gardella said he kept his business alive by bolstering his services and selling used boats, which typically fell below the $100,000 threshold for boats. And while he said he was pleased the tax was gone, Mr. Gardella was uncertain how big a boon the repeal would be.
"The biggest problem these days is the economy," he said. "And while I am very happy this luxury tax is gone, at the same time they're over-taxing the people in the class who could buy expensive boats."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I don't think anyone didn't come in and buy a fur coat because of the tax," Steven Korn said of the recently repealed luxury tax. "Anyone who wanted a fur coat in those price brackets wasn't worried about paying an extra $120 or even $1,000." He took inventory yesterday at his store in Manhattan. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Less for the I.R.S."
 The budget repeals the luxury tax on all items but cars. Here is a breakdown of the $151.5 million collected from Jan.-June 1992.
 
Cars -- $137.8 million (91.0%)
Jewelry -- $6.9 million (4.6%)
Boats -- $6.4 million (4.2%)
Furs -- $294,000 (0.2%)
Airplanes -- $85,000 (0.1%)
 
(Source: Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES ; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); EXCISE TAXES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; JEWELS AND JEWELRY; FUR; BOATS AND BOATING; PRIVATE AIRCRAFT; AUTOMOBILES ; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EXCISE TAX (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); RETAILERS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); FINE JEWELRY (77%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); JEWELRY STORES (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); SALES PROSPECTING (71%); BOAT BUILDING (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%); SALES REBATES (57%); ANNIVERSARIES (57%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE BURTON M TANSKY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



446 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 3; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Review/Fashion;
Swimsuits That Aren't Just for the Beach

BYLINE: By BERNADINE MORRIS

 BODY:
Back in the days when the bikini dominated the beaches and tanning was the prevalent sand sport, the more flesh the swimsuit exposed, the better. Times change. The one-piece suit, thanks to flesh-clinging stretch nylon no thicker than an onion skin, has caught up with the bikini. It can be long enough to cover the hips; it can have cap sleeves or a halter neckline. Baring all is not top fashion.
Even the bikini is no longer a thing of triangles held together with string. The bra provides adequate cover, even a bit of control when wired. The bottom is not as low at the waist or as high at the hips as before, and a small skirt or a scarf often ties over it. 
 Perhaps the most significant advocate of the covered bikini is Calvin Klein, whose bottoms have tiny skirts and whose tops have halter necklines that cover the chest. But in no way can they be termed matronly.
Since sunning no longer has priority, at least not for every woman all of the time, swimsuit designers have more flexibility. They are blurring the lines between fashions designed primarily for going into the water and other types of apparel, from casual to evening clothing.
"There's a multiple use for almost everything," said Miriam Ruzow, the president of Gottex of Israel, which sells its swimwear in 62 countries. "The striped sweaters that match the knitted suits can be worn separately with shorts," she said. "The fishnet and the lace tunics can be used as mini-dresses, and the sheer shirts can be worn in the evening with black pants or skirts. "We really think of the swimsuit as a base for warm-weather dressing, like a bodysuit."
The Gottex show, staged this month in New York, will be in Dusseldorf, Germany; Paris; Tokyo; Singapore, and Tel Aviv by the end of the year.
The best styles had a sportswear feeling, including creamy swimsuits knitted with cable effects accompanied by matching sweaters that sometimes extended to the floor. A modern switch on the traditional beach coat, the long sweaters could be worn alone as a coat or a dress. Also traditional were the red-and-white or black-and-white suits and cover-ups that suggested the nautical theme that is a perennial in resort and cruise collections.
 
Swimsuits Meet Ready to Wear
 Crocheted suits and cover-ups with the look of macrame provided the obligatory echo of 1960's fashions, along with the one- and two-piece tie-dyed styles. Both illustrated the growing connection between swimsuits and ready to wear.
The brilliant prints represented a specialty of the house, strong enough to hold their own against the most luxuriant tropical foliage. The Matisse-inspired prints with their vibrant blues were the most esthetically satisfying. There were also leopard spots with palm fronds, African-inspired brown prints with matching wooden beads and underwater patterns with ropes and pearls.
The design range of the 300 styles at the show was as broad as that of most ready-to-wear presentations. The suits are to turn up in stores in the United States starting in November, in time for the resort season.
The other shows were considerably more modest, in line with what Anne Cole called her austerity program. A member of a swimsuit dynasty -- her father started Cole of California in 1925 -- Ms. Cole is preoccupied with the 1930's, not only its economy, but its fashions. She particularly likes the period's long, lean line and has translated it into swimsuits with longer legs. "I never loved the high-thigh cuts," she said.
She called the halter the neckline of the season, used prints inspired by Provence and replaced last year's dots with stripes.
Many of Ms. Cole's styles, including those with the longer body lines, offered more coverage, and she believes she is on the right track. A one-piece suit with a pleated skirt was so successful last year that she has repeated it, this time with a striped top.
Although Taren Holdings, the owner of the Anne Cole line and other swimsuit lines, filed for Chapter 11 protection under Federal bankruptcy laws last week, Ms. Cole said yesterday, "I'm confident the line will be produced."
Michael Kors, who designs swimsuits for Trulo, also based in Israel, introduced swimsuits in nylon resembling charcoal gray flannel as his contribution to the season's ready-to-wear look. Some had openings in the front or back crossed by lacings. This design technique wouldn't have been acceptable when women were primarily interested in tanning; it would have left patterns on the skin.
High necklines and cap sleeves would have been similarly taboo. Now they have a significant place in his collection.
"It's beginning to come together," Mr. Kors said. "The line between swimwear and lounge clothes is not so clear anymore. And who is to say a woman can't throw on a pair of black jersey pants over a clingy black swimsuit and go out to dinner?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Neatly striped and piped in white, this navy long torso swimsuit by Anne Cole has a 1930's look, but sleeker. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); Scooped-neck, cap-sleeve swimsuit by Michael Kors for Trulo has stripes of thick and thin fabric. (Ed Quinn for the New York Times); High neckline and tiny skirt provide extra cover in two-piece stretch swimsuit by Calvin Klein. (Bill Cunningham for The New York Times); Sleek white knitted suit by Gottex extends firmly over the hips and has wide shoulder straps. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); Long sweater repeats nautical stripes of swimsuit for a matching cover-up, in Gottex resort collection. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FASHION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (68%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (54%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; BATHING SUITS BEACHES (90%); READY TO WEAR (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); 

PERSON: MORRIS, BERNADINE; COLE, ANNE; KORS, MICHAEL; KLEIN, CALVIN RICHARD 'CALVIN' KLEIN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



447 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: AUTO RACING;
Nascar Invades Indy, Which Looked Forward to It

BYLINE: By JOSEPH SIANO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS, Aug. 16

 BODY:
Chris Anderson's snazzy red Chevy looked almost fast enough to be out on the Indianapolis Motor Speedway today. Unfortunately for Anderson, it was stuck on Georgetown Road, a few hundred feet from the track, being outpaced by pedestrians.
Anderson and his buddy Rob Hunter had come here from Bloomington, Ind. The bulk of the trip takes an hour. Today, the last couple of miles -- amid 83-degree heat and 72 percent humidity -- took more than 90 minutes. 
 At least they weren't alone. About 50,000 other people had come here today to see 31 of the best stock-car drivers practice for a race that won't take place until next August, the Brickyard 400. A few drivers might be on the track at the same time today and Tuesday, the second day of the two-day session, but none would risk scratching a fender in anger.
Nonetheless, Anderson, who helped paint some of the highway signs that he had plenty of time to admire on the way into the track, wasn't questioning his sanity for a moment. "Oh, yeah," he said, "it'll be worth it, once you're in there."
Maybe it was the sheer incongruity of seeing 3,500-pound stock cars bellow through turns that are usually the runways for race cars that look and sound more like jet fighters.
Or it could have been the feeling for race fans, akin to spring training starting in December, that they had been blessed with a second season at a track that awakens the first week in May and goes back to sleep on Memorial Day.
Another spectator, Tim Kelso, knows the subconscious call of this place. He lives in Speedway, the small middle-class community on the west side of Indianapolis that is home to the track. He described the appeal of a day like today in Pavlovian terms: Open the gates, fire up a racing engine and it's feeding time at pitside.
"The track itself has a pull to it," he said as he stood by the fence in Turn One under the blanket of heat and humidity. Kelso, who said he wasn't that much of a stock-car fan, nonetheless could feel the track's magnetism.
"With the track's being open in August, that in itself is an inaugural event," he said.
 
The End of a Long Wait
 And a couple of hours in traffic aren't much when considering that stock-car fans have been waiting since 1909, the year this two-and-a-half-mile oval opened, to have any reason to come here.
Since the first Indianapolis 500 in 1911, this track has been the exclusive domain of Indy cars. But the explosive growth of stock-car racing in the last decade, along with the ascension of a new, under-40 generation in the Speedway's front office, made next year's Brickyard 400 too rich a vein not to mine.
"My initial feeling was I hated to see hallowed ground violated by anything other than Indy cars," said Johnny Rutherford, a three-time Indy 500 winner. "But times change, and maybe it's time to have something else here."
Rutherford's opinion has been so swayed that he was patrolling the garage area today, looking for a ride for the race.
 
The Family Track
 Although Nascar's version of stock-car racing has been around since the 1950's, early attempts by its founder, Bill France Sr., to hold a race here were turned down by Anton Hulman, who bought the track after World War II and whose family still runs it. Hulman felt, probably correctly at the time, that such a race wouldn't draw well.
He died in 1977, and 12 years later, his grandson Tony George took over as president of the speedway.
George, 33, brought with him a group of assistants, all under 40, who saw the track differently than his grandfather did.
"Well, I think with Tony Hulman, it was really more of a hobby with him," said Bruce Jaffee, the chairman of the Department of Business Economics at Indiana University's School of Business. "They've invested more in the track in the last few years than was done in the last 50 years. It's a new generation that's more bottom line and promotion-oriented."
The bottom line for residents of Speedway is that they will now have three more days of traffic and drunken revelry each year to go along with the bacchanals that accompany the race in May and its two qualifying weekends.
 
A Crowd, or a Small City?
 Peggy Swalls, the Speedway's director of ticket operations, said today that she expected all the seats to sell out for the Brickyard 400, which is scheduled on Aug. 6. (The first day for acceptance of ticket mail orders, by a happy convenience, is Wednesday.)
Last May, two accounting students at a local college counted the track's seats and determined there are 282,713. With infield admission tickets, the crowd next August could approach 325,000.
"For the most part, the people of Speedway have been pretty positive," said Mary Houldson, a Speedway resident and manager of the trailer park directly across the street from Turn One. "People are either for it or they're moving out."
Jaffee, who teaches in Bloomington, agreed.
"And now," he said, "instead of being dead 90 percent of the time, the town will be dead only 85 percent of the time."

 
 
PIT STOPS

 In Monday's practice, BOBBY LEBONTE have the fastest time of day, averaging 165.624 miles an hour. in his Ford. GEOFF BODINE averaged 165.256 miles an hour, and KEN SCHRADER was at 164.754.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Almost 50,000 people were at Indianapolis Speedway to watch Nascar drivers practice yesterday. (Mary Ann Carter for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (95%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIANA, USA (95%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE RACING; INDIANAPOLIS SPEEDWAY AUTO RACING (92%); NASCAR RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); 

PERSON: SIANO, JOSEPH MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



448 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2132 words

HEADLINE: Biologists' Deaths Set Back Plan to Assess Tropical Forests

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
WHEN Theodore A. Parker 3d and Alwyn Gentry died two weeks ago in a plane crash in Ecuador, their loss left a void in the practice of tropical field biology not likely to be filled easily or soon. They had no peers, colleagues say.
Early in his career, Ted Parker astonished fellow scientists by walking into a Peruvian forest cold and immediately identifying 15 species of birds that biologists working there for years had never noticed. In time he could recognize nearly 4,000 tropical species solely by their calls. Al Gentry was often introduced on the speaking platform simply as the man who knew more about tropical plants than anyone who had ever lived. 
 The ornithologist and the botanist each reputedly could discover more about the life of an unexplored rain forest in a week than most other scientists could in months or even years. That made them ideal for the exciting work to which they seemed born: plunging into tropical forests on the run, often half a step ahead of the chain saws, to take stock of the tropics' rapidly disappearing biological riches. The aim was to determine, and fast, what areas most urgently deserved to be protected from destruction.
Mr. Parker, Dr. Gentry and two other colleagues constituted what some called an ecological SWAT team. Search-and-rescue specialists, others termed them. By whatever name, the enterprise in which they had been engaged for the last three years put them in the forefront of an emerging new strategy for exploring the world's threatened store of living things under the pressure of galloping habitat destruction.
They loved it.
Their work was just beginning to realize its potential for conservation when, on Aug. 3, the plane from which Mr. Parker and Dr. Gentry were scouting out the possible boundaries of a new forest preserve in Ecuador crashed into one of the heavily shrouded mountainside cloud forests -- wet, mossy, lush with the orchids so well known to Dr. Gentry -- that had been an object of their labors.
Both were killed, along with three other passengers.
The loss is a stunning setback to the Rapid Assessment Program (RAP for short) in which they were key figures, along with their colleagues, Dr. Louise Emmons, a mammalogist, and Dr. Robin Foster, a botanist and ecologist, neither of whom were on the plane. "Two-thirds of the unpublished, critically important information on the Andes went with them in a split second," says Dr. Russell Mittermeier, the president of Conservation International, the Washington-based nonprofit organization that put the rapid assessment team together. "You'll never find in this lifetime anyone like those two," he said. "Those two were worth twenty."
The world's panoply of biological diversity, as familiar as some of its elements are, is mostly unexplored territory. About 1.4 million species of plants, animals and microorganisms have been given scientific names. But scientists have no idea how many species really live on earth. It could be 10 million; it could be 100 million. Most are thought to exist in the tropics, where a species may be confined to a single mountainside or river valley. Biologists fear that as a result of deforestation and other habitat destruction, uncounted species are going extinct before they can be discovered, named and studied for their scientific and economic value.
That is where the Rapid Assessment Program comes in. Conceived as an emergency adjunct to more traditional programs of tropical field research, it focuses on threatened, largely unexplored regional ecosystems thought to harbor especially rich assortments of life. The idea is to send in the team experts to make a quick survey -- two-to-six weeks is typical -- of large organisms like mammals, flowering plants, reptiles, amphibians and birds that can provide a rough gauge of diversity. The information is turned over to local officials and conservationists so that decisions on what areas to protect can be based on science rather than politics or mere opportunity.
Rapid assessment is not seen as a panacea; longer-term research on finer biological levels like those of insects and microorganisms, which account for the bulk of biodiversity and the bulk of undiscovered species, is universally considered just as important. Some scientists have worried that the glamor of the program could divert funds from the equally essential fine-grained studies requiring more time.
But rapid assessment is nevertheless widely seen as having an important role. The idea of the "RAP team" originated in a series of conversations among Mr. Parker; Dr. Murray Gell-Mann, a Nobel prize-winning physicist and conservationist, and Spencer Beebe, a founder of Conservation International. Too few biologists were working in the tropics, they felt, and their research was going too slowly to be of much use in conservation. Mr. Parker told Science magazine in 1991: "I realized there is no way in the world we would know enough in 20 years" to decide what land to preserve in places like eastern Bolivia or parts of eastern Colombia, where few biologists have been.
The answer, it was decided, would be a new type of scientific investigation that would largely dispense with the traditional, time-consuming and painstaking collection and cataloging of specimens. Nor would the investigators take time now to write up definitive studies. They would instead brief their local counterparts, conservationists and officials and move on to a new place.
The program was inaugurated in 1990 with start-up funds from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. Mr. Parker -- stocky, filled with enthusiasm, impatient to forge ahead, a former tour guide who took people bird watching in the tropics -- was named the leader of the team. His skill at identifying the subtle differences in bird songs especially fitted him for the rapid-assessment role, since tropical forests are home not only to bright-colored species but also myriad species with plumage blending in with the jungle background, species that can be picked out only by their calls.
 
Outstanding Field Scientists
 Dr. Gentry joined the team on loan from the Missouri Botanical Garden in St. Louis. "He was the most adept person in the world at going to areas of tropical forests, looking through them, seeing how many species of plants were there," says Dr. Peter Raven, the director of the Missouri institution. He could "recognize more plants than anyone else in the field. His abilities were very much like those of Ted Parker." Dr. Raven described the lean and intellectually hungry Dr. Gentry as "very driven: He really wanted to get over the next hill to look at the next place."
Dr. Gentry once said that what fascinated him was understanding how nature "is so beautifully organized; things fall into place; there are patterns."
Dr. Emmons signed on from the Smithsonian Institution. A favorite modus operandi of hers is to go out into the forest at night with a miner's lamp on her head, prospecting for animals. Once, colleagues say, she was stalked through the Peruvian rain forest by a jaguar wearing a radio collar, its presence clearly signaled by Dr. Emmons's clicking tracking receiver. "She's crazy," says Dr. Mittermeier admiringly.
Dr. Foster joined the group from the Field Museum in Chicago and the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama. His specialty is analyzing ecosystem types and patterns of vegetation. He is no slouch at identifying tropical plants, either: Once, says Dr. Mittermeier, Dr. Foster identified a species of plant from a fragment of leaf that had come from a seedling being eaten by a turtle.
The team's first efforts have been concentrated in Bolivia, Ecuador, Colombia, Peru, Belize, Guyana and Mexico. The Northwestern part of South America, including Bolivia, Ecuador, Colombia and Peru, have been of special interest to the team because biologically it is one of the richest areas in the world. The region is sometimes called the globe's epicenter of biodiversity. About half the biodiversity in South America is found there, said Dr. Raven.
Deforestation has cut heavily into this region. The forest cover of the Pacific coast lowlands of Ecuador, for instance, has shrunk from 90 percent at the end of World War II to 5 percent today. As the rapid-assessment team went about its work, the tree cutters were sometimes literally on their heels.
 
Competing With Bulldozers
 "Studies of the fauna were made difficult by the constant whine of chain saws," the team wrote in a 1992 report on its work in southwestern Ecuador. Once, Dr. Gentry inventoried plants at one end of a designated study plot while a bulldozer cutting the path for a road knocked down the other, the felled trees crashing dangerously close by.
The job has many risks besides that of a plane crash, most especially to health. Dr. Emmons contracted bubonic plague from forest rats, and Dr. Foster had both malaria and hepatitis.
The team's studies have been revealing, as a sampling of findings indicates. Along the Pacific coast of Ecuador, for instance, the biologists found that up to 20 percent of the plant species on most sites and 20-to-40 percent of bird species exist nowhere else in the world. In the same region they discovered a genus of trees, the Exarata, that is new to science. It was described in the team's report as "a large, locally common tree well known to local people. Indeed, we even ate our meals while sitting on sections of a trunk of this species."
In Bolivia, the team discovered that the region north of La Paz, from the high Andes to the mouth of the Rio Heath in the lowlands, probably harbors more bird and mammal species than any comparable area of the country, and that possibly 1,000 species of birds, "or an amazing 11 percent of all bird species on earth," live there.
The rapid assessment team identified a similar area of high conservation value in Guyana: the Kanuku Mountains, where the surveys indicated that more than 60 percent of the country's bird species and 80 percent of its mammal species live. And in Belize, they found 15 species of plants, 22 percent of the country's known total, not known to exist there before.
In terms of conservation results, the program was just beginning to move, said Dr. Mittermeier, and Mr. Parker, the team leader, was undergoing something of a metamorphosis. "Ted had gone from a hard-core field ornithologist to an international conservation bio-politician," said Dr. Mittermeier, referring to Mr. Parker's efforts to see that the team's findings were put to use.
The most concrete results so far have come in Bolivia, where several million acres of "the most diverse habitat on the planet" are in the process of being set aside as a national park, according to Dr. Adrian Forsyth, Conservation International's director of conservation biology. Other countries are less far along, but there is movement in them, too, he said.
While the deaths of the 48-year-old Dr. Gentry and the 40-year-old Mr. Parker have clearly set back the rapid assessment program and devastated their associates, recovery plans for the program are already under way. Previously made plans to move into other regions of the tropics -- New Guinea next year and Madagascar and Africa down the line -- still hold.
"All this is in a state of flux," said Dr. Mittermaier, "but it will be a maximum of six months before we have another team deployed in the field. Otherwise, we lose a lot of the momentum."
The organization plans to honor Mr. Parker and Dr. Gentry in a number of ways. The main one will be the establishment, with private and foundation contributions and in collaboration with other institutions, of the Parker-Gentry Fund. It is intended eventually to provide scholarships "for the new Parkers and Gentrys," as Dr. Mittermeier calls them, from tropical countries, and for the continuation of the Rapid Assessment Program.
In the near term, the fund will finance a Spanish translation of Dr. Gentry's recent book, "A Field Guide to the Families and Genera of Woody Plants of Northwest South America." It will also pay for the transcription and publication of the information in Mr. Parker's field notes and his many microcassettes of bird calls. The long-term objective of the fund would be to promote the creation of bioreserves throughout the region.
Conservation International has also broached the idea of establishing a biodiversity reserve in the part of Ecuador where the two scientists died, as a memorial to them.
"It still hasn't sunk in," Dr. Mittermeier said a few days after the plane crash. "I keep looking at pictures of Ted and saying, 'I'm going to give him hell when he gets back for doing something so stupid.' And then I remember he's not coming back."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Alwyn Gentry, an expert in tropical plants, who was killed in a plane crash in Ecuador two weeks ago, as he carried plant samples. (Randall Hyman/Conservation International); Theodore A. Parker, also killed in the crash, recording bird songs, left. (Randall Hyman/Conservation International); At right, Dr. Louise Emmons, a mammalogist, working at night; she remains a member of the Rapid Assessment Program ecological team. (Haroldo Castro)(pg. C1); Dr. Robin Foster, botanist and ecologist on the Rapid Assessment Program team, in the field. (Haroldo Castro)(pg. C9)
 
Diagram/Map: "Snapshots of a Region's Threatened Biodiversity"
Surveys many types of habitats, plants, birds, mammals and reptiles have been made by the Rapid Assessment Program (RAP) teams sent out by Conservation International into Central and South American countries. Part of the mission of the teams was to determine conservation status. The comments that follow give a flavor of the assessments made.
 
FOREST REMNANTS IN ECUADOR
A few of the remaining forest fragments were visited. In Cerro Mutiles, a protected area, the report said, "Studies of fauna were made difficult by the constant whine of chainsaws in the forest." As many as 6,300 vascular plants occur in western Ecuador; North America has only 16,000. The vertebrates of western Ecuador are similarly diverse. More than 800 bird species are known. 125 species of bats have been recorded.

KANUKU MOUNTAINS, GUYANA
This relatively small geographic area supports a large percentage of Guyana's biodiversity. Well over 60 percent of all the country's avian species occur in the Kanuku Mountains. The combination of savannas and semi-deciduous to evergreen forest accounts for the mammalian richness of this region. Several nearly intact ecosystems lie along the Rewa River.
 
COLUMBIA RIVER FORESTS, BELIZE
Nearly all the reserve is covered by old-growth forest. Many plant species were recorded for the first time in Belize, among them a rare mountain palm, several species of vine, orchids and a "curious shrub that grows only on limestone outcrops in the forest." Many bird species live in the threatened moist and wet forests in other parts of Central America and Mexico.
(Source: Conservation International)(pg. C9)
 
Map: "Search-and-Rescue Missions"
Rapid Assessment Program surveys carried out at the sites on this map quickly identified biological resources in need of protection.
 
COLUMBIA
Discovery of major migratory bird sites, followed by increased protection of the Columbia Forest Reserve.

ECUADOR
Discovery of new genus of canopy tree

GUYANA
Development of new biosphere reserve and identification of a rare tropical river ecosystem

PERU
National Park feasibility study, first step toward creating a protected area, Tambopata-Candamo

BOLIVIA
Proposal developed with Government to develop a new park, Alto Madidi
First survey of world's largest dry tropical forest
 
(Source: Conservation International)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (98%); PERU (93%); GUYANA (92%); BELIZE (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (59%); 

COMPANY: CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ECUADOR ECUADOR (98%); PERU (93%); GUYANA (92%); BELIZE (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (59%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; ANIMALS; FLOWERS AND PLANTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; ENVIRONMENT ; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; RESEARCH BIOLOGY (92%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); BOTANY (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); AIRLINES (78%); ZOOLOGY (77%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); ORNITHOLOGY (77%); ANIMALS (77%); BIODIVERSITY (77%); BIRDS (76%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (76%); PLANT CONSERVATION (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (74%); MAMMALOGY (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: PARKER, THEODORE A 3D; GENTRY, ALWYN; EMMONS, LOUISE (DR); FOSTER, ROBIN (DR) ; STEVENS, WILLIAM K

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



449 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Stop Nibbling at Nafta

 BODY:
Finally, President Clinton has completed the easy job: negotiating supplemental accords to the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada. But that leaves him the hard job of negotiating with the people down the block -- members of Congress intimidated by fear-mongering attacks by Ross Perot and the stalwart opposition of some powerful Democrats like the House majority leader, Richard Gephardt.
Congressional opposition is unfortunate because Nafta would have a positive, though small, impact on the U.S. economy even without the supplemental accords. The accords make Nafta even better by adding a thin layer of protection for U.S. companies facing potentially unfair competition from Mexico. 
 Mr. Clinton promised during the campaign to improve the trade agreement negotiated by the Bush Administration by eliminating the unfair competitive advantage that would be gained by Mexican companies that cut costs by violating their country's environmental and labor laws.
Mr. Clinton suggested at the time that the answer might be to set up international commissions to establish mutually agreed rules and regulations. But none of the countries were comfortable with such extraterritorial rule-making. Besides, Mexican laws weren't the problem; they're generally as good as their U.S. counterparts. The problem is the enforcement record of the Mexican Government, which is execrable.
The supplemental accords zero in on enforcement. If an international panel of experts finds that a country, say Mexico, persistently fails to enforce its laws, then its government would be fined. If violations persist, trade sanctions could follow. The accord is the first trade agreement to use fines and trade sanctions to back up labor and environmental protections.
Imposing fines on governments, rather than on non-complying companies, may seem an odd proposal. But it's quite clever. The fines are designed to compel the government to improve its enforcement record, especially when trade sanctions are lurking close behind. If Nafta were instead to impose fines directly on non-complying companies, it would give U.S. businesses ferocious incentive to bring frivolous charges against Mexican competitors on the outside chance of driving them from the market.
Mr. Gephardt objects that the proposed fines won't be imposed for an important category of violations: failure to protect labor's right to strike, organize and collectively bargain. But the Mexican Government refused to give in on this politically charged issue and it's unclear how much Mr. Clinton wanted to open U.S. companies to such accusations.
Mr. Gephardt also wanted to force Mexico to raise wages along with productivity. But as Mexico's market reforms take hold, wages will rise; if the U.S. imposed artificially high wages on Mexican employers, the policy would produce the same result in Mexico that it did in eastern Germany after unification: widespread unemployment.
Careful studies show that Nafta would have a minor overall impact on jobs and wages in the U.S. Some U.S. workers would lose work, but the number wouldn't be large. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that over 10 years Nafta would add fewer than 500,000 to the 20 million workers who would be displaced for other reasons.
The proper response is not for Congress to reject Nafta, and thereby deny benefits to hundreds of millions of others. Rather Congress should provide generous retraining and relocation assistance to those who will suffer.
Over the past several years, and under pressure from Washington, Mexico has launched important market reforms. And to overcome Congressional resistance to Nafta, Mexico has spent millions of dollars more to monitor and clean up the environment. It started near the bottom and still has a long way to go; but there are at least signs that it is taking the United States' environmental concerns seriously.
Had President Clinton now overreached and kicked away Nafta, he would also have kicked away real progress. That would have been bad economics and even worse politics. The supplemental protections that Mr. Clinton negotiated are porous, but the holes in the original agreement weren't large and didn't need major surgery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); GERMANY (72%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; CANADA; UNITED STATES MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); GERMANY (72%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STRIKES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (53%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993



450 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Old Ball Game Has New Demands for a Town

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: AUBURN, N.Y.

 BODY:
This is a story about how the warm and fuzzy mythology of baseball can collide with the cold and calculating business of baseball. It's about a community whose love affair with a team may soon end because its aging stadium is no longer good enough for the people who pay the salaries.
Remarkably, this story is not about George Steinbrenner. 
 It is about Auburn, which has been told by major league baseball that it must replace its 67-year-old stadium -- where the outfield dips and dives downward from the infield, and the locker rooms are cramped and musty -- by next year or lose its Class A franchise, the Astros.
To residents of this aging industrial city of 32,000 nestled amid the rolling cornfields of central New York State, the message was not, "If you build it, they will come," but, "If you build it, they won't go."
 
Passionate Fans
 To jaded New York City residents, the loss of a minor league team might sound as dire as the closing of a drugstore. And even the price for a new stadium, $2.7 million, sounds paltry.
But in Auburn, like hundreds of small communities around the nation, minor league baseball is a passion with few equals. Fans collect and trade minor league baseball cards. They swarm about locker rooms and team hangouts looking for autographs. They go on road trips, following their favorite players to towns named Oneonta, Depew and Pittsfield. They let players live in their homes all summer just for the chance to say someday: "I knew him when . . ."
Baseball here still fairly drips with nostalgia, warm nights and family outings and wholesome boys playing hard and fair. No multimillion-dollar players dousing sportswriters with bleach or tossing firecrackers into the crowd, if you please.
"I can't imagine my life without it," said Diane McNabb, a 51-year-old insurance company representative who is the president of the Astros' booster club. "I live for this time of year. I count the months until it arrives."
But whether Auburn can finance the summertime dreams of its Diane McNabbs is another question. Though the state has agreed to help pay for some stadium improvements, a resolution to borrow money for a new 2,500-seat stadium failed in the Auburn City Council last month amid concerns about the weak economy and the city's declining tax base. The new debt would add $30,000 to the city's budget of about $30 million a year, more than some Council members think the city can afford.
The resolution will be voted on once more before Labor Day, when the city -- which owns the franchise and the stadium, thought to be the oldest in all the minor leagues -- has agreed to begin looking for a new owner in another town.
If the city loses the Astros, it is unlikely to get another team because there are fewer minor league franchises available and more cities seeking them thanks to the growing popularity of the business, minor league baseball officials say.
 
'An Obnoxious Big Brother'
 In that respect, Auburn is similar to about six other communities in upstate New York and about two dozen others around the nation that, under an agreement with major league baseball, must improve their stadiums by April or lose their minor league teams. In an era when professional baseball seems more profitable than ever, the order has caused resentment in towns that have nurtured minor league teams through decades of thick and thin.
"There is a sentiment that the majors are less of a helpful partner and more of an obnoxious big brother toward minor league communities," said State Senator John B. Sheffer 2d, a Republican from LeRoy who sponsored legislation to provide state money for minor league stadium improvements. "There are millions to pay to individual ballplayers, and yet precious little to assist in these stadium needs."
But a stroll through Auburn's Falcon Stadium provides a good idea of why the major league Houston Astros want a better field for their prospects. The field has eroded so much that the infield slopes downward to the outfield. As a result, more than a few infielders have fallen while backpedaling for pop-ups and outfielders often cannot see home plate because they are too far downhill.
The league also considers the 1,850-seat stadium too small, its cinder-block locker rooms too cramped and its concession stands too outdated to make the field presentable for fans or players. The team draws an average of 960 a game.
"It's tough to have somebody of that caliber playing in a facility that's risky," said the president of the New York-Penn Baseball League, Robert Julian, as he watched an Astros pitching prospect warm up. "The Houston Astros have been very loyal to this community. But either the facility improves or they're out of here."
 
Vines and Painted Signs
 To many fans, however, the stadium has an old-time charm. Grapevines cling to the fences. The outfield wall is covered with hand-painted billboards for local banks, restaurants and car dealers, some of which closed years ago. And the stands are so close to the field that most children looking for baseballs will catch a foul ball if they wait long enough.
"You're right over the dugout, so you can hear the manager call plays before the players do," said Tim Latson, a 35-year-old Binghamton resident who took a day off recently to see the Binghamton Mets play the Astros in Auburn. "You can smell the pine tar."
Among the Astros' most passionate fans, Steven Russo is a recent convert. A major league Mets fan before he moved from Brooklyn to Auburn nine years ago, Mr. Russo discovered the Astros when he peeked through a hole in the fence at batting practice.
What he saw were 19- and 20-year-olds, fresh out of college or high school, playing with more verve while making more mistakes than big leaguers. He has been a season ticket-holder since.
"I hate to make the pun, but it's a whole different ball game here in the minors," said Mr. Russo, the 37-year-old director of a high school planetarium. "I still follow the Mets, I'm ashamed to say, but I really follow the minors more. This is baseball at its purest."
Auburn baseball devotees claim the city is rich in baseball lore, dating from the time that Abner Doubleday lived here briefly before moving to Cooperstown. The city had a team in the defunct Border League between 1938 and 1952. Then, after six years without professional baseball in town, three local businessmen went door-to-door selling $1 shares to buy a Class-A franchise and Falcon Stadium.
In 1981, when the team was near bankruptcy, the city assumed its debts and became one of only a handful of municipalities in the country to own a professional baseball team.
"When you move to a community and try to find where to meet families, it's usually the shopping mall," said Michael Chamberlain, a Xerox official who is the unpaid president of the Astros. "We've lost those places where the community comes together as a community. That's the special thing about ball parks. We don't go as individuals."
After a recent night game, which the last-place Astros lost, 10-5, a group of boys took to the field after the teams had departed. As one pitched a make-believe ball, another took a deep cut, sending a third backpedaling deep into right field.
At the very moment he closed his glove on the invisible ball, the lights went out.
"That's what it's all about," said Peg Lane, Auburn resident, mother of four and baseball fan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Czanstkowski of the Auburn Astros signing autographs for fans. (pg. A1); Auburn, N.Y., has been told by major league baseball that it must replace its 67-year-old stadium, thought to be the oldest in all the minor leagues, by next year or lose its Class A franchise, the Astros. Scott Bayley, an umpire, brushed off home plate before a recent game. Behind him stood Bill Bell. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times) (pg. B5)
 
Map shows the location of Auburn, New York. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSTON ASTROS HOUSTON ASTROS (93%); HOUSTON ASTROS (93%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON ASTROS HOUSTON ASTROS (93%); HOUSTON ASTROS (93%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AUBURN (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MINOR LEAGUES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; STADIUMS BASEBALL (96%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); CITIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); BUDGETS (71%); CITY LIFE (69%); US LABOR DAY (64%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES GEORGE STEINBRENNER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



451 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
A NEW POLICY ON U.S. TROOPS
Shifting away from the longstanding tradition of American troops serving under American officers, the Clinton Administration is considering expanding the United States' role in United Nations peacekeeping operations, including the placement of troops under United Nations commanders on a regular basis. A1
 
PROJECT TO SAVE LAKE BAIKAL
To save Siberia's great Lake Baikal, critics say, a paper plant must be closed or fitted with Western-designed filters, a project considered too expensive in Russia. A4 

ENG BIOGRAPHY IN SEPTEMBER
Official Chinese newspapers are publishing long excerpts each day from the biography of Deng Xiaoping, which is to be formally distributed beginning Sept. 10. A5
 
NIGERIAN OFFERS TO STEP DOWN
Nigeria's military ruler, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, offered to end his eight-year reign and allow the formation of a new government. A6
 
DEFINING BOSNIA'S NEW BORDERS
With a final agreement on the future status of Sarajevo still pending, negotiations to end the Bosnian war turned to defining the borders of the country's ethnic republics and immediately bogged down. A8
 
33 DIE IN MUSLIM-CROAT CLASHES
Fierce fighting between Muslims and Croats killed 33 soldiers overnight in the central Bosnian city of Mostar, according to reports reaching Sarajevo. A8
 
HARDSHIPS IN A YUGOSLAV TOWN
The impact of international economic sanctions is much the same in Novi Sad as elsewhere in what remains of Yugoslavia. But the increasing hardship there is bringing fears of an explosion of tensions in a once-tolerant multi-ethnic region. A8
 
Egypt fights Islamic militancy with more of the same. A3
 
Germany's anti-terrorist unit polishes its image. A10
 
Death of American envoy in Georgia called "chance killing." A11
 
Budapest Journal: Urban development after years of neglect. A4
 
National A12-20
 
NEW COMMUNICATIONS ISSUES
News analysis: A.T.& T.'s plan to take over the nation's biggest cellular telephone company will force Washington policy-makers to grapple with vexing telecommunications issues. A1
 
CATCHING INSURANCE CHEATS
People who file insurance claims for injuries they never sustained in public transit accidents were the target of a sting operation in New Jersey. Such "ghost riders" cost insurance companies millions yearly. A1
 
STAR WARS DECEPTION?
Officials in the Star Wars project rigged a crucial test and faked other data about the project's strengths in a program of deception that misled Congress as well as the intended target, the Soviet Union, four Reagan Administration officials said. A1
 
ACCUSATIONS ABOUT SPIES
A new book says a former K.G.B. employee has told the F.B.I. that hundreds of American Government officials spied for the Soviet Union during the cold war. A15
 
TAILHOOK SCANDAL HEARING
An accuser and the accused met at a military hearing into whether a Marine pilot should be court-martialed in connection with the 1991 Tailhook convention, where more than 80 women were assaulted. A1
 
KEVORKIAN CHARGED
Dr. Jack Kevorkian got his wish when he became the first person charged under a law that makes assisted suicide a felony. A12
 
STORM DEFENSES LAG
A year after Hurricane Andrew, coastal cities are entering the heart of the hurricane season with a new respect for nature's wrath, but with only modest changes to lessen the effect of the next storm. A12
 
CLARK CLIFFORD REFLECTS
Clark Clifford, the Washington lawyer who spent decades at the pinnacle of influence, lost all his clients after he was indicated in the B.C.C.I. case. But he says he feels vindicated by his partner's acquittal. A13
 
UNHAPPY WITH H.M.O.'S
A nationwide study has found widespread dissatisfaction with health maintenance organizations, adding fuel to the debate over the merits of managed health care. A14
 
Bob Dole says Republicans want to cooperate on health care. A14
 
BOEING CHOSEN FOR STATION
NASA headquarters consolidated its grip on the $20 billion effort to build a space station by naming Boeing as the prime contractor and settling the project in Houston. A16
 
Education Page A17
 
A learning-disabled student spurns an orientation and is punished for it.
 
Campus Journal: At Iowa, coping with the flood as the new term nears.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
12 DAYS OF TERROR
For the 12 days that Harvey Weinstein was a kidnapping victim, he survived in a pit six feet underground, his hands tightly lashed, with a diet of only water and fruit. Above ground, family, friends and detectives engaged in nightmarish negotiations for his freedom. A1
 
THE GAME VS. THE BUSINESS
This is a story about how the warm and fuzzy mythology of baseball can collide with the cold and calculating business of baseball. It's about a community that may lose its team because its stadium isn't good enough. Remarkably, this story is not about George Steinbrenner. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-10
 
Health Page C11
 
The greatest mental stress said to come well after a disaster.
Personal Health: The risk of calcium deficiency in adolescence.
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
Ed Sullivan Theater gets historic makeover.C14
Film: "Manhattan Murder Mystery." C13
Music: Kris Kross, from boys to men. C13
Books: Book Notes C13
 
Sports B6-12
 
Obituaries D17-18
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
Ambiguous salvo on health care.
Protecting water from the birds.
Easy does it.
Challenging kids and the military.
 
Letters
 
Bob Herbert: Michael's chance.
James Webb: The military is not a social program.
Jerry L. Mashaw, Theodore R. Marmor: The states as health care labs.
 
Bridge C17
 
Chronicle B4
 
Crossword C17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); NIGERIA (92%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GEORGIA (72%); GERMANY (53%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); NIGERIA (92%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GEORGIA (72%); GERMANY (53%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARMED FORCES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (87%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); RELIGION (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); TERRORISM (66%); CITIES (65%); COUNTERTERRORISM (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (61%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); INSURANCE (60%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (60%); INSURANCE FRAUD (60%); PAPER MILLS (56%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



452 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON MAY LET U.S. TROOPS SERVE UNDER U.N. CHIEFS

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 17

 BODY:
Shifting away from the longstanding tradition of American commanders for American troops, the Clinton Administration is considering an expanded role in United Nations peacekeeping operations that would include having Americans serve under foreign commanders on a regular basis.
Administration officials say a presidential policy directive to allow for such an expansion of the American role has been drafted and is expected to be signed by President Clinton next month. It has the backing of the Defense Department, the State Department, the National Security Council and Madeleine K. Albright, delegate to the United Nations. 
 Since the end of World War II, the United States has only detailed individual officers as monitors for United Nations peacekeeping efforts, or has generally provided air and sea transport for such operations.
 
Precedent for U.N. Command
 Before the United Nations operation in Somalia, the United States has only once placed an American military unit under direct United Nations command -- a small air transport unit in Western New Guinea in 1962, according to William J. Durch, author of "The Evolution of U.N. Peacekeeping."
But American troops fought under foreign commanders in both world wars. American forces also served in Korea as part of a United Nations operation, but their commanders were American.
"If we were asked to contribute an engineering unit that nobody else had, we would do it," a State Department official familiar with the directive said of the present policy. "But if we were asked to contribute an infantry unit, we would say, there are plenty of others who can contribute infantry units."
The directive goes beyond the Bush Administration's acceptance of a multilateral approach to regional conflicts, the officials said, and reflects a belief that military responsibilities must be shared in the post-cold-war world.
 
U.N. Role Widening
 It also comes at a time when the United Nations is undertaking more peacekeeping efforts than at any time in its history -- and is being criticized for being too aggressive in its efforts in Somalia and too passive in Bosnia.
The tradition of American command was first dented when the United Nations took over the Somalia operation from the United States in May. But even that precedent is limited. The only force under United Nations command in Somalia is the 2,700-person logistical contingent. The 1,300 combat troops in the Quick Reaction Force, which carried out the assaults against Gen. Mohammed Farah Aidid and his supporters, remain under the command of American officers.
And the various proposals for Western military intervention in Bosnia have all called for the action to be undertaken under the command of NATO, not the United Nations. The current commander of NATO is Gen. John Shalikashvili, an American who was chosen last week to be the next Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
 
U.S. Role 'in Any Capacity'
 "The difference with this Administration is that it envisions the United States, in principle, taking part in any peacekeeping operation in any capacity," the State Department official said.
Still, the Administration proposal falls far short of what some, including Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, would like to see the United States do. Last year, Mr. Boutros-Ghali asked United Nations members to provide up to 1,000 troops each to be part of a standing army to be used to deter aggression.
In an interview, Ms. Albright said of the idea of a standing force, "I see it as way, way down the line. I think there are genuine questions at the moment about the U.N. having its own anything."
Ms. Albright said that while it is not current Administration policy, it might be conceivable in the future to have members designating units that would be available to the United Nations on short notice.
 
A Data Base Is Needed
 "What we need is the development of a data base of who has what so that the Secretary General doesn't have to go around with a tin cup," Ms. Albright said.
She stressed that the primary mission of these troops would be the needs of their particular countries, and that participating in United Nations operations would be secondary.
Even so, aware of the difficulty of selling the new directive to Congress and to reluctant military officers, the Administration is strongly considering allowing heads of American military units to ignore or disregard orders from United Nations commanders that they consider to be illegal or militarily questionable.
Such a policy might create resentment among some members. Last month the United States and other countries called for the ouster of the commander of the 800-member Italian contingent in the Somlia peacekeeping operation for refusing to carry out orders from the central United Nations command.
Also, in order to make American participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations more politically palatable, the Administration is seeking to improve the efficiency of the United Nations and thereby lower costs. Currently, the United States pays about 30 per cent of all United Nations peacekeeping costs. This year the United Nations total may exceed $3.6 billion. Some of the changes the Administration would like the United Nations to make include setting up a round-the-clock operations center, beefing up logistical support for peacekeeping operations, and improving accounting and budgeting procedures.
 
Operation in the Caucasus
 Last week, Ms. Albright wrote to Mr. Boutros-Ghali asking questions about the cost of a proposed peacekeeping operation in the former Soviet republic of Georgia before the United States would commit itself to vote in favor of the operation. Ms. Albright asked for detailed explanations of the length of the peacekeeping operation, the projected cost and the basis for the cost estimate, the precise responisbilities of the peacekeepers and what would determine when their mission was fulfilled.
Aides to Ms. Albright, who is president of the Security Council this month, say she hopes that such detailed queries will become a regular feature of future discussions of peacekeeping operations.
Some critics say, however, that such efforts at making the United Nationsmore efficient do not address the political problem of building domestic support for American peacekeepers in places like Somalia where the broad American economic or strategic interest is not clear.
"It's a mistake to look at mechanistic solutions to the problems of the U.N.," said John Bolton, the former Assistant Secretary of State for International Organizations in the Bush Administration. "The problems the U.N. faces is a lack of real political will by the parties involved to come to solutions. Somalia and the former Yugoslavia are not difficult because of operational reasons. They're difficult for political reasons."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SOMALIA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); STATE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL; STATE DEPARTMENT UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); STATE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL; STATE DEPARTMENT UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); SOMALIA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ARMED FORCES (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); PEACEKEEPING (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HOLMES, STEVEN A; BUSH, GEORGE BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



453 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Many Patients Unhappy With H.M.O.'s

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
A nationwide study of more than 17,000 patients has found widespread dissatisfaction with health maintenance organizations, adding fuel to a growing national debate over the merits of managed health care.
Patients were more likely to be satisfied with the explanations of their treatments from doctors working in their own offices or in small single-specialty groups than from H.M.O.'s, the researchers said. The patients also said that independent doctors had showed more interest in their well-being. 
 And independent doctors were easier to reach by telephone and more apt to schedule office appointments on short notice than were doctors in large medical groups and H.M.O.'s, the study found.
By contrast, people enrolled in health maintenance organizations or treated by large multispecialty practices were more likely to complain of long hours in the waiting room, followed by too short a visit with the doctor.
To slow the growth of health-care costs, managed-care organizations typically restrict payments unless care is approved in advance by a designated primary-care doctor.
 
What Critics Say
 Critics say many organizations economize by making it difficult to get a doctor's appointment, shuttling patients from one doctor to another and giving the doctors incentives to see too many patients in too little time.
"Patients bounce around in these systems," said John E. Ware Jr., a senior researcher at the New England Medical Center. "It's the dark side of managed care."
In the study, which was financed by the Federal Government, researchers at Johns Hopkins University and the New England Medical Center analyzed how 17,671 patients rated their treatment in small offices, large multispecialty medical practices and H.M.O.'s with salaried doctors.
The study, reported in today's issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association, was based on interviews conducted in 1986 in 367 medical offices in Boston, Chicago and Los Angeles and updated in 1990. The findings had not been previously reported.
The researchers asked patients to rate services from excellent to poor and then compared the percentage of excellent ratings that patients gave to their overall care, as well as to particular kinds of service.
Don White, a spokesman for the H.M.O. industry, said his group's ratings would have been much higher if responses of "very good" and "good" had been included. But Mr. Ware said that patients were generally reluctant to criticize medical services, so ratings of less than excellent were misleading.
 
Politically Hot Subject
 "The study's findings are particularly important in light of President Clinton's health care reform efforts," said Dr. Haya R. Rubin, director of quality of care research at the Johns Hopkins medical school, who was the lead author of the article. "To the extent that managed care encourages doctors and hospitals to be in very big groups, that may be less desirable from a patient's point of view."
The Clinton Administration is drafting plans for a medical system that would offer incentives to enroll in health maintenance organizations and similar prepaid medical plans, which typically limit the use of hospitals and specialists.
The President said on Monday in a speech to the National Governors Association that the system should contain significant new incentives to prevent overuse of health care services.
Dr. Rubin said patients' views of their doctors could often affect their health. "Studies show the more satisfied you are, the more likely you are to come back to that doctor," she said.
Dr. Joseph Painter, a Houston oncologist who is president of the American Medical Association, agreed that "a patient who is happy with the physician, both individually and professionally, will carry out the doctor's order, whether it is exercising, losing weight or taking pills."
But Mr. White, the industry spokesman, said, "The deck was stacked against H.M.O.'s" in the three-city study. The Group Health Association of America in Washington said the authors should have asked about features that H.M.O. members appreciate, like low out-of-pocket costs and fewer medical forms to fill out.
The association said a number of other studies had found that H.M.O. members were as satisfied with the managed care organizations as others were with traditional insurance.
 
Other Studies
 But Mr. Ware said the authors and the experts who reviewed the study for the medical association journal were not aware of any comparable studies that contradicted the three-city study.
Indeed, a 1992 Government-financed study of elderly Medicare patients also reported that members were less likely to rate their health plans as excellent as to how well the care was explained, how long they had to wait both for appointments and in the office, and how thorough the treatment was.
Several large employers said some of their people had similar complaints. "I'm not terribly surprised by their findings," said Gary Yeaw, director of benefit services at Allied-Signal Inc., where 48,000 of the 70,000 American employees are in managed-care programs, including 5,000 in H.M.O.'s with staffs of salaried physicians.
He said that when given a choice, this type of organization attracted younger people with large families who like the one-stop shopping. Employees who do not like these model H.M.O.'s often transfer to other types of health plans.
While they urge their employees to join H.M.O.'s because of the cost savings, a number of larger employers, including Allied-Signal and the Xerox Corporation, are prodding the organizations to improve patient services. "H.M.O.'s have to do better," said Helen Darling, a Xerox benefits executive. "You have to push them."
 
Varyied Ratings
 Not all H.M.O.'s are alike, of course. Dr. Rubin noted that one of the three organizations in the survey received excellent ratings from 55 percent of the patients, compared with 49 percent and 37 percent for the other two. The overall excellent ratings in the three cities for independent doctors in small offices were between 62 percent and 69 percent. For small offices working with H.M.O.'s, the range was 51 percent to 66 percent.
"Patients seem to like to receive their care in doctors' offices, whether they are members of H.M.O.'s or not," said Dr. Steve Zatz, head of a quality of care unit of U.S. Healthcare, based in Bluebell, Pa., a large H.M.O. whose members are cared for by independent doctors.
His organization is one of a growing number of large managed-care organizations that say they are always analyzing their performance and polling patients, and trying to improve. Dr. Don M. Nielsen, who is in charge of quality at Kaiser Permanente, the big, nonprofit national H.M.O. based in Oakland, Calif., said Kaiser had also "worked very hard to improve access and meet our members' expectations."
Dr. John Ludden, medical director of the Harvard Community Health Plan, based in Brookline, Mass., added, "Large organizations can become impersonal quite easily." He said his organization had a training program for doctors to show them "how to produce satisfaction for patients."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY; NEW ENGLAND MEDICAL CENTER JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY; NEW ENGLAND MEDICAL CENTER JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS; RESEARCH; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (93%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (92%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT BILL CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



454 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Budapest Journal;
Gentrifiers March On, To the Danube's Banks

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUDAPEST, Aug. 17

 BODY:
Nearly four years after the Communist system collapsed, a sharp debate is developing in this grand city of broad boulevards and opulent buildings astride the Danube: how the metropolis, still grand but faded, should be restored and renewed.
The debate is similar to those that have long absorbed New York, London and Paris. But what used to be an almost entirely Western phenomenon, urban gentrification, has come to the fore here as city leaders and citizens alike confront decades of Communist neglect of an eclectic architectural heritage that ranges from a graceful Neo-Gothic Parliament building to fanciful Art Nouveau bathhouses. 
 Pushing the concerns is Budapest's position, with more than two million people, as a commercial headquarters for $5 billion of post-Communist foreign investment in Hungary, the largest amount of any country in the region.
Architects and town planners here say they feel an added responsibility because as the wealthiest city in Eastern Europe what happens here is likely to be the vanguard for Prague and Warsaw.
Some rules for urban renewal have been set: new construction is welcome, but not skyscrapers. Some priorities are being established, particularly to do something about the chaotic traffic and pollution caused by the greatest concentration of cars in Eastern Europe. Some significant bundles of money have been nailed down, mostly from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to improve public transportation.
But little has been done to resolve the conflict between a chronic housing shortage that has left many city residents crammed into rundown, crime-encrusted apartment buildings and the desires of developers to build or renovate for more lucrative commercial use.
From his spacious office hung with modern paintings and furnished with classic Hungarian chairs, the city's Deputy Mayor for urban development, Istvan Schneller, struggles with these issues every day.
"It is very hard to preserve the city against the investors," said Mr. Schneller, who was a practicing architect before assuming one of the most powerful posts in the city and who has sent many a foreign developer back to the drawing board to scale back grandiose plans.
For example, he rejected a plan by French developers to build a 40-story building near the city stadium, a height Mr. Schneller noted they would not be allowed to construct in Paris.
"I don't want to be against the investor, but I would like to channel the development further along the Danube," Mr. Schneller said. "But everyone wants to be very close to the center."
At the heart of Budapest's debate is an urban renewal proposal for the city's most crowded and rundown inner district. The mayor of District 7, the site of Budapest's Jewish quarter and home to seven synagogues, wants to build a $1.2 billion commercial center of office towers, pedestrian mall, shops and luxury apartments. Many of the residents, most of whom are elderly and have lived in the tiny apartments on the proposed site all their lives, are against the project, known as the Madach Promenade Business District.
"To have more stores, 8,000 people should move?" a woman asked at a town meeting called last week to discuss the project. "I'm a citizen too. Why do we have to open up a new street for more french fries and hamburgers everywhere? Where are the traditional restaurants where you can get good Hungarian food at acceptable prices?"
 
Idea for a Mall Is Old
 Janos Farago, the district's mayor and a longtime resident of the District 7, says the complex is a necessary step to enhancing property values. "The project would revalue the district and be another step toward a market economy," he said. "It would restore the district's image as a trading center."
Mr. Farago acknowledged that there were members of his council and his constituents who thought the money spent on the construction could be better used on "solving social problems." But mostly, he said, the residents feared change.
The idea of the pedestrian mall that would effectively extend the current commercial area on the Pest side of the Danube is such a good one, he said, that it was not dreamed up in the last few years. It was first considered, in more modified forms, at the turn of the century when Budapest was blossoming into a true European city and then again in the 1930's, he said.
A feasibility study prepared by the accounting firm Coopers & Lybrandestimated that the district would have to borrow heavily for the initial upgrading of water and electricity supply and for the cost of moving people whose apartments would have to be pulled down, Mr. Farago said.
He said that about 522 apartments would be demolished, meaning that about a thousand people would have to be moved to other places. Others in the district assert that Mr. Farago was underestimating the number of people to be relocated -- the real number is more like 3,000, they say -- and there is no place to move them anyway.
 
A Cascade of Worries
 At the crowded meeting of constituents, a gathering that would have been unheard of in the Communist era before 1989, Mr. Farago listened to a barrage of complaints.
"Why sell to foreign interests, local entrepreneurs should be given a fair chance," one man said. Another said, "People live in horrible conditions, but at the same time newly built offices are left empty."
One of the younger residents of the district, Robert Braun, a professor of history at Budapest University, said he opposed the project, in part, because it paid little attention to the origins of the area. "This was the center of Jewish life," he said. "This place has memories of the Holocaust that should be nurtured, not ruined."
Deputy Mayor Schneller, who holds great sway on whether development plans receive permits, said he would not oppose the project, the biggest commercial development proposal under consideration in Budapest. But he has reservations.
Rather than ease traffic congestion, the complex would just move the traffic a few blocks away, he said. And expressing a pet worry, he said he would try to persuade the Hungarian architect Janos Posimar to ignore the financial demands of investors and knock some floors off the highest tower in his plan.
"We don't need tall buildings at all, we can put the function of the city in smaller, more friendly buildings."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Under the urban plan, some of Budapest's old buildings would give way to a commercial center of office towers, a pedestrian mall, shops and luxury apartments; Urban gentrification has arrived in Budapest's neighborhoods after decades of Communist neglect of the city's architectural heritage. In District 7, above, a $1.2 billion renewal plan would demolish more than 500 apartments and displace about a thousand people, an official said. (Photographs by Andras Bankuti for The New York Times)
 
Maps show the location of Budapest and a layout of its downtown area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); FRANCE (88%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNGARY; BUDAPEST (HUNGARY) HUNGARY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); FRANCE (88%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (88%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PAINTING (70%); TRENDS (65%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



455 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: DOLE IS CAUTIOUS ON HEALTH PLANS

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TULSA, Okla., Aug. 17

 BODY:
In a speech that was more conciliatory than confrontational, Senator Bob Dole said today that Republicans wanted to cooperate with the Clinton Administration on health care. But he warned that he had "genuine concerns" about the President's proposal, particularly one that would require employers to provide health insurance for workers.
Addressing the National Governors' Association from the same stage where Mr. Clinton outlined the basics of his health plan a day earlier, Mr. Dole, the Senate Republican leader, warned the President not to "get set in concrete" with his plan. 
 Despite his objection to requirements on employers, Mr. Dole stopped short of saying he oppose any package that included them. And he said he could be persuaded if small businesses were protected.
"In the view of Senate Republicans who are working on proposals of our own," he said, "employer mandates would damage the economy and hurt those who need help the most -- new hires, small businesses and low income workers."
While Mr. Clinton said his plan would call for mandatory insurance, he also emphasized in his speech here that he would seek to ease the burden on employers by phasing the plan in over five to seven years.
 
Bipartisanship Has Its Limits
 The tone of Mr. Dole's comments seemed to reflect the tone of governors from both parties in the four-day conference that ended today: They sought to strike a bipartisan note, but the divisions remained apparent.
From start to finish, the issue of health care was paramount here. At a closing news conference, Gov. Howard Dean, a Democrat from Vermont who is a physician, emphasized Mr. Dole's call for accommodation on health care. "This is not a bipartisan love fest," he said. "But the commitment here is to start working together."
Brushing aside disagreements over financing, Mr. Dean said, "The unwritten story is that a national consensus appears to be developing around a state-based plan."
Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr. of South Carolina, who today assumed the chairmanship of the association, praised Mr. Dole for "holding out an olive branch." After the governors' private meeting with Mr. Clinton and Administration officials on Monday, he said, he was confident that partisan conflicts could be kept to a minimum.
"Nobody was pulling punches," Mr. Campbell said. "We saw a willingness from the President to try to find answers."
Acknowledging that he had become known as Dr. Gridlock, Mr. Dole made unusually friendly comments that seemed intended to demonstrate that he was not simply the Republicans' pit bull.
 
Passage, Perhaps, in a Year
 Mr. Dole is the most visible spokesman for Republicans and will play an important role in the coming health care battle as the White House seeks the backing of many members of his party.
But he strongly suggested that the months of consultations between the Administration and Republicans in Congress may not satisfy him, even if many Republicans support the Clinton health care proposals. And he advised the White House not to try to rush the plan, which he predicted would be approved by Congress "maybe the middle of next year."
"In my view, bipartisanship is not just picking off enough Republicans to get the bill to pass," Mr. Dole said. "That may be a victory, but it's not bipartisanship."
While he called on the White House to move more cautiously on health care, Mr. Dole also made a pitch for more aggressive efforts by the Administration on the North American Free Trade Agreement. Noting that many lawmakers might not want to deal with the pact in an election year, he said, "My view is if we don't move on Nafta fairly soon, it may become a victim of the 1994 election."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bob Dole told the National Governors' Association yesterday that Republicans wanted to cooperate with the Clinton Administration on health care. But he warned that he had "genuine concerns." (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; GOVERNORS (US); LABOR POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); INSURANCE (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (52%); 

PERSON: DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



456 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Touches a New Low Against the Japanese Yen

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar moved slightly higher against the Japanese yen in early trading today, after falling to its fifth straight record low yesterday.
Meanwhile, gold prices declined. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August delivery dropped $1.50 an ounce, to $371.60. December gold, the most actively traded futures contract, also lost $1.50 an ounce, to $374.90. 
 In Tokyo today, the dollar was quoted at 101.48 yen in afternoon trading, up about half a yen from the New York close. But early yesterday in Tokyo, the dollar plunged as low as 100.35 yenbefore rebounding late in the session to close at 101.55 yen. Traders said the currency was being supported by heavy intervention in the markets by the Bank of Japan.
 
Early Gains Cut
 In New York yesterday, the dollar initially rose above 102 yen. But, after a small financial news agency, the Market News Service, quoted unidentified officials in Washington as saying the Treasury approved of the rising yen, the Japanese currency shot up.
"All of a sudden, it got hectic," said Jack Griffin, a vice president at Fuji Bank in New York.
The report apparently calmed some investors' fears that the Federal Reserve might intervene in the markets to strengthen the dollar. The yen finished trading at 101.02, down from 101.62 late on Monday.
The Japanese Cabinet in planning to hold an emergency meeting on the yen. "A lot hinges on this meeting, to give us a clue" what the Government will do, said Kevin Lawrie, a foreign-exchange manager at Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh.
The German mark, meanwhile, lost ground against European currencies and the dollar yesterday, after France cut its overnight interest rate and denied it planned to impose currency controls. In New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.6941 marks, up from 1.6870 marks on Monday.
Traders have been expecting most European countries to lower their interest rates below Germany's to try to spur their economies. Such a move is probable because European Community officials recently decided to weaken their coordination of exchange rates and interest rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%); BK (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); GERMANY (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (56%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); GERMANY (66%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS CURRENCIES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FUTURES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); GERMAN MARK (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



457 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Business Technology
A.T.& T.'s plan to buy the nation's biggest cellular telephone company will force Washington policy makers to grapple with some of the most vexing telecommunications issues since the Bell System was dismantled. [Page A1.] Uniting the two big companies could lead to hundreds of new communications services. [D5.]
Hughes Aircraft was awarded royalties that could total more than $1 billion in a long dispute with NASA involving communication satellite-technology patents. [D1.] Boeing was named prime contractor to oversee the $20 billion space-station program. [A16.]
 

Companies
Citicorp granted top executives unusual stock options linked to the company's performance. The options could be worth as much as $200 million if Citicorp stock doubles over the next five years. [D1.]
Turner Broadcasting agreed to buy Castle Rock Entertainment and New Line Cinema for more than $667 million, giving Turner a long-sought stake in the film production business. [D1.]
Warner-Lambert said it might soon resume production of some nonprescription products halted under an F.D.A. agreement, but low-sale prescription drugs may be unavailable for months. [D3.]
Hewlett-Packard surprised Wall Street with quarterly earnings well below expectations, and its stock fell. [D3.]
Dell Computer said it would place financial liquidity and profits ahead of growth. It reported a $75.7 million quarterly loss. [D3.]
NBC and Time Warner resolved a dispute over the retransmission of network television stations on cable systems. [D3.]
Pepsi-Cola has a nightmare on its hands with a soft-drink sales campaign it started in the Philippines. [D3.]
 
The Economy
"Ghost riders" -- people who file insurance claims for injuries they never sustained in public transit accidents -- were the target of a sting operation in New Jersey. [A1.]
The new tax law will affect companies in many different ways, according to a survey of several industries. [D1.]
Housing starts fell 2.7 percent in July, hurt by the Midwest floods and a continued slump in construction in the West. [D2.]
 
International
Research on certain computer chip devices will be subsidized under a Commerce Department plan, but chip makers will not be protected from foreign competition. [D1.]
France's central bank chief is expected to be elected president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. [D1.]
Clark M. Clifford expressed vindication and relief that his law partner and protege was acquitted in the B.C.C.I. trial. [A13.]
 
Markets
The Dow Jones industrial average closed at a record high, gaining 7.83 points to 3,586.98. [D6.]
Some money managers still prefer the safety of shorter maturities despite the rally in Treasury bonds. [D14.]
The dollar moved slightly higher against the yen in early trading today after hitting a low yesterday. [D13.] Lumber prices fell sharply. [D13.]
 
Today's Columns
A.T.& T. chose an accounting method for its acquisition of McCaw that will help its profits. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D6.]
Smith/Greenland lost the rest of the Schieffelin & Somerset spirits account after 26 years. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); DTV (NASDAQ) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); FRANCE (68%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); DIRECTV (57%); BOEING CO (57%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); FRANCE (68%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); CABLE INDUSTRY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); BONDS (77%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); PATENTS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); SPACE STATIONS (71%); SALES & SELLING (71%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); COMPUTER CHIPS (70%); REAL ESTATE (70%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); SOFT DRINKS (64%); NETWORK TELEVISION (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%); TAX LAW (62%); HOUSING STARTS (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); ACQUITTAL (60%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (52%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



458 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Starts Fell 2.7% In July

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 17

 BODY:
Housing starts fell 2.7 percent in July, hurt by flooding along the Mississippi River and a slump in construction activity in the West, the Commerce Department reported today.
Despite the lowest mortgage rates in more than 20 years, housing starts in July, at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.21 million units, fell for the second straight month. Starts in June, previously reported as unchanged, were revised to show a two-tenths of 1 percent decline, the Government said. 
 The July decline was concentrated in the Midwest, where starts fell by 4 percent, to a rate of 265,000 units, and in the West, where they plummeted by 11.9 percent, to a rate of 273,000.
Analysts said flooding along the Mississippi hampered building but that the report over all was worse than expected.
 
 
'Not Doing Much'
 "The July housing starts statistics are disappointing, as they indicate that the lower mortgage rates are not doing much in terms of luring consumers back into the housing market," said Marilyn Schaja, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in New York.
In the West, the California economy remained under severe pressure from military base closings and from the winding down of defense industries, analysts said, so there is little incentive for home building.
Starts rose in the South during July by 2.5 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 541,000, and were up fractionally in the Northeast, by eight-tenths of 1 percent, to 133,000.
Despite July's fall in national construction activity, analysts say there are reasons to be hopeful about the rest of the year. Low interest rates are making homes more affordable, while the supply of single-family units is down to about a seven-year low.
Mortgage rates inched down to 7.2 percent in July, their lowest level in more than 20 years. In June, rates for 30-year fixed mortgages averaged 7.36 percent, according to the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
 
 
'Good Underlying Fundamentals'
 "We think that good underlying fundamentals like a slowly improving labor market and low mortgage rates in July were more than offset by floods in the Midwest and rains in the West," said David Berson, an economist with the Federal National Mortgage Association.
"But bad weather doesn't eliminate stronger sales and starts, it postpones them," Mr. Berson said. "We should see an improvement starting to take place by September."
Over all, the July rate of starts on homes and detached town houses was still 9.6 percent higher than the seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.11 million units in July 1992.
Additionally, applications for permits to build new homes rose in July by 3 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.15 million units, after falling by five-tenths of 1 percent in June.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Housing Construction" shows number of private housing started and permits authorized during the month, from Feb. '92-July '93. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (82%); FNM (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (63%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MISSISSIPPI RIVER; WESTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FLOODS; WEATHER HOUSING STARTS (95%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); WEATHER (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); BUILDING PERMITS (74%); FAMILY (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); CLOSINGS (69%); MILITARY BASES (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



459 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Plans to Offer Aid, Not Protection, in Chips

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 17

 BODY:
In a closely watched test of the Administration's approach to strategic industries, the Commerce Department has drafted a plan to subsidize research on certain computer chip devices but has refused to protect the industry from foreign rivals, American officials said today.
The decision is the clearest sign yet of the Administration's desire to help high-technology industries in the international marketplace through technical assistance rather than through protectionist tariffs on imports. An Administration official said that while the nation's reliance on imports of the devices "doesn't present an immediate threat to national security, improving the capabilities of the domestic industry is desirable for both economic and national security."
 
 
Legislation Not Needed
 The Administration official insisted on anonymity because the White House was told only on Monday evening about the research assistance plan, which the Commerce Department could undertake with its own resources and without special legislation. 
 But when told about the Administration's plans, economists expressed concerns that the Federal Government could not pick technological winners and losers more accurately than the financial markets.
"The good part of the story is that they're not protectionist," said Jagdish Bhagwati, an economics professor at Columbia University. "On the other hand, they're most likely opening a floodgate, which they'll find very difficult to close."
Two American manufacturers of the computer chip devices filed a petition with the Commerce Department last winter seeking assistance under a Federal law that gives the President broad powers to limit imports or help domestic industries for national security reasons. The case was the first under the law to contend that the nation's economic competitiveness -- in addition to military needs -- was essential to national security in the post-cold war world.
The devices at issue are ceramic packages with implanted metal circuitry that links crucial silicon chips inside to other, less important chips. The chip packages are used in everything from cars to personal computers to missiles.
The Kyocera Corporation of Japan controls more than half the world market for these ceramic packages. The company and some smaller Japanese companies together supply as much as 90 percent of the Defense Department's needs, according to documents filed in the case.
Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown, in a letter to President Clinton on Monday night, ruled that the chip-packages industry did not meet the national security test in the law. But the Commerce Department has nonetheless decided that the industry needs Federal help and has drafted a four-part plan to do so.
The plan calls for the creation of a federally financed research center for chip packages, which would probably be in San Diego and be run by the Navy; more research spending on chip packaging materials by the Energy Department and the National Institute of Standards and Technology, a Commerce Department agency; Defense Department advice to the domestic industry on how to win more military contracts, and a working group of Federal and industry officials to review ways to increase efficiency.
The total cost of this effort has not yet been worked out.
Several domestic industries that are facing foreign competition and claiming strategic importance have been watching the case, notably commercial aircraft manufacturers and domestic oil drillers.
 
A Difficult Test
 The Commerce Department's ruling that the chip-package industry did not meet the national security test "would suggest that this is not going to be an easy hurdle to clear," said William R. Cline, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics, a nonpartisan Washington research group.
The United States consumes about $1.2 billion a year worth of ceramic packages, including about $200 million worth of packages in military applications. The Coors Electronic Package Company, based in Chattanooga, Tenn., and the Ceramic Process Systems Corporation, based in Milford, Mass., had filed their petition under Section 232 of the Trade Enhancement Act of 1962.
Section 232 is the little-changed replacement for legislation passed in 1955, at the height of the cold war, that gave the President broad powers over the economy when national security was involved. Presidents Ford and Carter invoked section 232 to impose temporary taxes on imported oil and to encourage American self-sufficiency in oil production.
I.B.M., which makes ceramic chip packages for its own use and occasionally for sale to other companies, opposed the petition, as did American computer companies that rely on foreign chip packages.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KYO (NYSE) (63%); 6971 (TSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT KYOCERA CORP (63%); H BROWN LTD (63%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); RESEARCH; COMPUTER CHIPS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); FEDERAL AID (US) COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); ELECTRONICS PACKAGING (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); COLD WAR (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (65%); PETITIONS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



460 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Computer Maker's Net Hurts Stock

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 17

 BODY:
The Hewlett-Packard Company surprised Wall Street today with fiscal third-quarter earnings well below the consensus estimate, sending its share price plummeting.
While earnings, revenues and orders all grew in the quarter, profit margins hit a new low, a victim of price cuts, primarily in personal computers and printers. 
 For the quarter ended July 31, Hewlett-Packard had earnings of $271 million, or $1.06 a share, up 44 percent from $188 million, or 75 cents a share, in the comparable period a year earlier. Sales grew 23 percent, to $4.96 billion from $4.04 billion.
Hewlett-Packard shares closed today at $74 each, down $1.25, in trading on the New York Stock Exchange, after moving up for the last two weeks. The price was down $6.75 a share earlier in the day.
Analysts, who had anticipated per-share earnings in the $1.20 to $1.25 range, revised their estimates downward for the full year and for the 1994 fiscal year to reflect the squeeze on margins.
 
 
Gross Profit Margins
 "More and more, this company is making its living from printers and PC's, which are sold through indirect channels where the margins tend to be lower," said Robert Herwick, an analyst with Hambrecht & Quist. He added that the company had also reduced prices on its Emerald line of large, multi-user computers. Mr. Herwick said the gross profit margin was 40.2 percent, "the lowest we've ever seen, and a full point drop" from the second quarter. "I don't think anybody expects a recovery in the October quarter," he added.
Lewis E. Platt, Hewlett-Packard's president and chief executive officer, said in a telephone interview that the decline in gross profit margins "is a continuation of what we've been talking about for some time." He attributed the shrinking margins to pricing pressures in personal computers, printers and disk drives. "We're working as hard as we can to offset that by lowering all of our expense ratios," he said.
"Over all, we consider our results a decent outcome in a difficult economic environment," Mr. Platt said. "Given this environment, in which several major economies have been in recession, we didn't assume that our strong first-half order-growth rate would continue," he said. "However, we are a bit disappointed by how much it moderated this quarter. Order growth slowed substantially in Europe and slightly in Japan, but we're encouraged by continued healthy order growth in the United States."
Hewlett-Packard said orders for the third quarter totaled $4.7 billion, an increase of 19 percent over the $4 billion reported a year earlier. United States orders grew 24 percent, to $2.2 billion, while orders from outside the United States grew 14 percent, to $2.5 billion.
The company said that orders grew 17 percent in the Asia-Pacific area, compared with 23 percent growth in the previous quarter. Orders from Europe increased 10 percent over the quarter a year earlier, compared with 28 percent growth in this year's second quarter.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Mixed Results" shows Hewlett-Packard's quarterly net income. (Source: Company reports)
 
Table: "Hewlett-Packard Co. (N)"

Qtr. to July 31	1993	1992	%Ch	Rev.	4,961,000,000	4,040,000,000	+23	Net inc.	271,000,000	188,000,000	+44	Sh. earn	1.06	.75		Sh. out.	254,000,000	252,000,000		9m rev.	14,630,000,000	12,086,000,000	+21	Net inc.	879,000,000	b481,000,000	+83	Sh. earn	3.47	1.90		Sh. out.	253,000,000	253,000,000	 	
 
b-After a charge of $332 million for the adoption of accounting changes for retiree medical benefits.

Yesterday's closing price:
$74
Down $1.25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); HAMBRECHT & QUIST CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; STOCKS (CORPORATE) COMPANY PROFITS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M MICHAEL MCMAHON (64%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



461 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Frank R. Barnett, 72, an Expert On Military Strategy and Security

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Frank R. Barnett, founder and president of the National Strategy Information Center of Washington and New York, died on Sunday at a Manhattan nursing home. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan.
The cause was heart failure, the center said, adding that he had had cancer. 
 Mr. Barnett's interest in national security studies grew from a belief that questions of war and peace should not be the left to Federal officials and the military alone. To that end, he worked to develop educational programs in conjunction with the American Bar Association, universities, organized labor and business.
He founded the center, a nonprofit, nonpartisan body, in 1962. Its goal was to bring together leaders of public opinion and provide information on national defense and international security through seminars, policy workshops and briefing sessions.
Known for its anti-Communist and pro-military stance, the center continued to monitor the military equations after the demise of the Soviet Bloc. But it also developed educational courses for the 1990's that discussed economics, the environment and ethics. It also continued its research on American intelligence policy and sponsored unclassified workshops with intelligence specialists.
A native of Chillicothe, Ohio, Frank Rockwell Barnett was educated at Wabash College, Bradley University, Syracuse University, the University of California at Berkeley, the University of Zurich and, as a Rhodes Scholar from Indiana, at Oxford University.
In World War II, he was a Russian interpreter in the 69th Infantry Division, which met the Soviet Army on the Elbe River in April 1945. After the war, he was attached to the staff of the United States Military Government in Berlin.
From 1955 to 1962 he was a vice president and director of research of the Smith Richardson Foundation, an anti-Communist group founded in 1935.
He was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the International Institute of Strategic Studies in London.
Mr. Barnett is survived by his wife, Marjorie, and a brother, Frederick, of Florida.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); NATIONAL STRATEGY INFORMATION CENTER (84%); NATIONAL STRATEGY INFORMATION CENTER (84%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (57%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); BRADLEY UNIVERSITY (55%); BRADLEY UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL STRATEGY INFORMATION CENTER (84%); NATIONAL STRATEGY INFORMATION CENTER (84%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (57%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); BRADLEY UNIVERSITY (55%); BRADLEY UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); ARMED FORCES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ARMIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); ETHICS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); LABOR UNIONS (55%); 

PERSON: BARNETT, FRANK R; SAXON, WOLFGANG BARNEY FRANK (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



462 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
The Governors' Untouchable Subject

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TULSA, Okla., Aug. 17

 BODY:
Talk about touchy. Ask Republican governors about health care or welfare or Federal mandates and they won't stop talking. Ask them about their ambitions for the White House and there is dead silence. Then they back away.
That's just what happened the other day here at a news conference by Republicans attending the summer meeting of the National Governors' Association. The question-and-answer session was dominated by four Republican Governors who are widely thought to harbor visions of national office: Carroll A. Campbell Jr. of South Carolina, Pete Wilson of California, William F. Weld of Massachusetts and John Engler of Michigan. 
 Only Mr. Campbell answered the question about 1996, and that was probably because he was standing nearest the microphone. His reply, though, was intentionally not enlightening.
"I really don't think that's a subject that's appropriate for discussion here," he said. "We have to go back and deal with reality. We're going to be governors before we're anything else. You're talking about something that's three or four years off."
 
A Political Subplot
 Despite the governors' reluctance to discuss 1996, the campaign that is three years off was an unmistakable subplot of the conference that ended here today. Throughout the discussions, there was one central but unspoken question: Who will emerge as the Republican nominee?
It is also on the minds of the Democrats. Catherine Moore, the Democratic Party's spokeswoman, followed the jockeying here closely. "They're like animals trying to get ahead of the herd," she said.
Governors dominate the early list of possible Republican Presidential candidates, and their subtle maneuvering provides a case study in how politicians stake out positions on the national stage by speaking out on issues.
In what some of Mr. Wilson's possible rival camps viewed as an effort to shift the attention from home-state economic troubles and his own political difficulties, the California Governor seized on the issue of health care. For Mr. Engler and Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin, another Presidential prospect, the issue was overhauling welfare.
 
A Successful Maneuver
 And Mr. Weld made his splash even before the conference opened: he proposed cutting taxes by $200 million in Massachusetts to ease the effect of tax increases at the Federal level that are required under Mr. Clinton's budget. White House officials denounced Mr. Weld for playing politics with the budget, but it won him the attention he sought. He delivered the Republican response to Mr. Clinton's weekly radio address on Saturday.
Still, Mr. Wilson was testy when asked about 1996. "This is three and a half years away," he snapped. In an apparent reference to Mr. Clinton, he added, "Give the guy a break."
By contrast, Haley Barbour, the chairman of the Republican Party who spends much of his time encouraging people to focus on 1994, not 1996, maintained his sense of humor. Asked about Presidential prospects, he flipped on his sunglasses and quipped, "You know when I put these glasses on, I really can't see past 1994."
But he went on: "There certainly are a lot of bright lights among our governors. And I'm sure that they, like I, are not thinking about anything beyond 1994. They're all smart people."
Smart enough not to speak publicly about their ambitions. But it does not take much to get the governors' aides to dive into a detailed handicapping of their bosses' prospects (and the shortcomings of their possible opponents) -- all off the record, of course.
 
Projecting the Proper Image
 Mr. Campbell, who began a one-year term as chairman of the association today, was so anxious not to be perceived as using his new post to pursue the Presidency that he told his supporters that they should take it easy and that he would not be joining other Republicans making treks to New Hampshire, site of the first Presidential primary.
"New Hampshire is like a flare and he wasn't ready to send that flare up," said Tucker Eskew, Mr. Campbell's press secretary. "We have some very zealous supporters in Washington, some of whom were suggesting a more aggressive timetable. The cheerleaders took the field before the team had even suited up."
The governors' model, of course, is President Clinton, who built contacts in state capitals around the country and became identified with issues like welfare changes when he was chairman of the governors' association.
He was not the first to succeed at using the group to promote his political career. So did these former governors: Lamar Alexander, the Tennessee Republican who went on to become Education Secretary; John H. Sununu, the New Hampshire Republican who became White House chief of staff, and Michael S. Dukakis, the Massachusetts Democrat who won his party's Presidential nomination in 1988.
"The N.G.A. has been increasingly seen as a jumping-off point," said Raymond C. Scheppach, executive director of the association. "Bill Clinton started a long time ago doing speeches for governors in their states, That's very important."
 
Other Republican Contenders
 The governors, of course, have other Republicans to contend (and compete) with, like Jack F. Kemp, the former Housing Secretary; Senator Phil Gramm of Texas; William J. Bennett, the former Education Secretary and drug policy director, and Bob Dole, the Senate Republican leader who has emerged as the party's most visible spokesman.
Fresh from New Hampshire himself, Mr. Dole addressed the governors today, and, not surprisingly, the Republicans who are most talked about as White House hopefuls made a beeline to be seen with him at the end of his speech. (Not to leave anyone out, other big-state governors is also part of the rumor mill are Jim Edgar of Illinois and George V. Voinovich of Ohio.)
Who will emerge? No one knows, of course. Could it be a surprise from an obscure state, like Gov. Mike Leavitt of Utah?
Mr. Leavitt stood in the shadows at the news conference with his fellow Republican governors. But he caught the eye of Republicans and reporters when he stood up to the microphone and leveled a fresh, punchy attack against the Democrats on health care. He declared that it could be "the mother of all unfunded mandates."
So a few moments later, when the potential Presidential prospects were asked about their ambitions for 1996, Mr. Weld put his arm around Mr. Leavitt's shoulder. And everyone laughed -- but not too hard.
"I think," Mr. Leavitt said later with a chuckle and a touch of diplomacy, "he was trying to deflect attention from himself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: While governors are topping the list of candidates to seek the White House in 1996, few are posturing in public. At the governors' national meeting, Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr. of South Carolina, a Republican and an early favorite, said, "You're talking about something that's three or four years off." Two of the Republican governors who have been mentioned as national candidates kept their own counsel yesterday at the meeting in Tulsa. Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts, left, listened to a speech by Senator Bob Dole, and Gov. Pete Wilson of California attended a panel discussion. (Photographs by Associated Press for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); TULSA, OK, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 GOVERNORS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); CASE STUDIES (68%); TAX LAW (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



463 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Short-Term Issues Still Alluring

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Despite the persistent rally in the long end of the Treasury market, there are signs in the corporate bond market that many money managers still prefer the safety of shorter maturities.
Stephen Clark, senior corporate market analyst at Technical Data, notes that the spreads between the yields on shorter-term corporate bonds and comparable Treasury securities have narrowed recently, which is a sign of strong demand for corporates. At the same time, he said, the yield spread on longer-term corporate debt has held constant in the new-issue market and, in some cases, has widened when issues begin trading in the secondary market. 
 "Some people think there is no place to go in price but down, and up in yield," he said.
Yesterday, Philadelphia Electric sold $500 million in first and refunding mortage bonds. The $225 million of five-year notes were sold at a yield of 5.44 percent, which was just 40 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, higher than the yield on the five-year Treasury note.
But Mr. Clark said that based on the talk about the issue before it was priced, the spread was expected to be 50 to 55 basis points for the company, which has a rating that is just a few notches above investment grade.
New York Telephone sold five-year bonds yesterday with a yield of 5.358 percent, which was just 30 basis points over the five-year Treasury note yield. As recently as April, Pennsylvania Power and Light, which has the same credit rating as New York Telephone, sold five-year corporate bonds at a spread of 50 basis points over the five-year Treasury note.
This is not to say there is no demand for longer-term paper or the desire of companies to issue it. According to the Securities Data Company, the share of longer-term new issues of corporate debt has jumped sharply since the beginning of July. For the year to date, longer-term debt from 10 years to 30 years accounts for about 44.5 percent of all new issues while since July 1 that share is up to 56.7 percent.
But Mr. Clark argues that because the yield spreads on this longer-term corporate debt have held steady or widened some, it signals that investors are still favoring shorter-term, less-price-sensitive debt. That might indicate that there is more caution in the market than one would think, even though the yield on the 30-year bond is in a steep downward tilt.
 
Treasury Market
 Low and behold, the downward move of the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond was halted yesterday. For the first time in eight trading days, the yield on the 30-year bond did not set a new 16-year low. But traders expect the downward march to begin again soon.
"There is no reason for rates not to go down further," said Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Securities, referring to the fact that the economy is still sluggish and the inflation rate is rising at a pace below last year's 2.9 percent.
In trading yesterday, the price of the 6.25 percent bond due in August 2023 slipped 4/32 , as the yield inched up to 6.31 percent, from a 16-year low of 6.30 percent Monday.
But earlier in the day, the price of the bond was up about 11/32 , with the yield down to 6.27 percent. The gains, which came in light trading, were lost in the afternoon. Mr. Fine suggested that the reason might have been disappointment that the Federal Reserve did not enter the market to buy Treasury securities, which some analysts had expected.
The prices of other Treasury securities were also off on the day. The price of the 10-year note fell 8/32 as the yield rose to 5.71 percent, from 5.68 percent the day before. The price of the two-year note slipped 2/32 as the yield rose to 3.98 percent from 3.95 percent.
The next event that could give the market some trouble is the Treasury auction next week of two-year and five-year notes. But it is not clear that if this auction disrupts the shorter end of the market that it will have any impact on the 30-year bond. Traders say the long bond seems to be in a world of its own, influenced by the positive inflation data that affect the entire market and by its own special factors, like the Treasury's decision to cut annual sales of the bond by 40 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PPL (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES DATA CO INC (64%); PPL CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CORPORATE BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; INTEREST RATES CORPORATE BONDS (93%); BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); DEBT FINANCING (73%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



464 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Man's Nemesis: Dotted Line on Map;
Trying to Rebuild, Bronx Store Owner Faces Phantom Road

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Among the biggest fears for any businessman hit by catastrophe is that he'll wind up on the street. But for one Bronx landlord trying to rebuild after a devastating fire, the problem is that the street is on him.
Lazar (Bernie) Berkovits, the owner of the largest property destroyed in a five-alarm fire 13 months ago on East Tremont Avenue says that although he is ready to build a bigger store on the site, the city says he can't just yet. A dotted line planners drew on a map half a century ago has East Tremont Avenue cutting through his property, meaning that even rebuilding on the site requires a ruling from the city. And $8,000 in legal fees.
 
'This Is Impossible'
 The city's stance vexes Mr. Berkovits, considering that to help him with his expansion plans the city sold him a small parcel next to his original lot without, he said, telling him that the street is plotted through the land. Even more perplexing to him, and most people, is that East Tremont Avenue is where it has always been -- on the street in front of Mr. Berkovits's land. 
 "It's crazy, but we don't know where to turn for help," he said, adding that if things had gone without a hitch he could have finished construction by the fall, rather than next year. "I understand it's a big city and it takes time and everything has to be done according to law, but this is impossible. Here's one of the reasons the economy is not moving."
Even a spokesman for the city agency that denied Mr. Berkovits his construction permit agreed the situation defied some measure of common sense.
"It's one of those things," said Vahe Tiryakian, a spokesman for the Buildings Department. "New Yorkers, aren't we something here? Every time you think you're doing well, whammo, the city hits you right in the face."
The stall in obtaining a building permit is only the latest obstacle facing some half-dozen businessmen whose stores were destroyed in a fire July 6, 1992. They complained bitterly last year that city officials initially seemed indifferent to helping them cut through the bureaucracy and promised more help they could deliver, including low-interest loans that never materialized. All that remains, is a half-block-long vacant lot.
Mr. Berkovits said he learned of the phantom road last spring, after the city sold him a parcel next to his lot, at 410-414 East Tremont Avenue, that, together, he would use to build a 12,766-square-foot building that would re-house a hardware store and restaurant that were lost in the fire. But when his architect went to the Buildings Department to obtain a construction permit, he was told that the mapped street prevented immediate rebuilding.
Planners who have studied maps for the area did not know why that stretch of Tremont Avenue was mapped differently from the way it currently runs, saying that it appeared to deviate from its current route for only that one block between Webster and Park Avenues.
Nevertheless, its existence on tax maps is enough to block new construction, said Mr. Tiryakian. Even replacing an existing building requires a variance from the city's Board of Standards and Appeals, he said.
"It's the pre-existing nonconforming use concept here," Mr. Tiryakian said. "Probably what happened here is those buildings existed and the street was mapped, and then by general city law, you're not allowed to build on mapped streets."
In other words, buildings that existed before the mapping were not affected, but any new construction would need permission from the city. City officials said Mr. Berkovits should have known about the restriction that would have been revealed in a title search.
Jennifer Pitts, a spokeswoman for the Economic Development Corporation, which helped Mr. Berkovits acquire the parcel from the city, said they had no inkling of the mapped street.
"It was just a sliver of a building on a much larger property and no one realized there was a street through that whole block," she said, referring to the property the city sold to Mr. Berkovits. The development corporation, she said, is speeding up the process to get Mr. Berkovits a hearing by late September. The corporation has also gotten assurances from the Transportation Department that it has no plans to widen or move East Tremont Avenue.
That is small comfort to Mr. Berkovits, who still will have to spend $8,000 on fees for lawyers to obtain the ruling. Worse yet, by the time the variance is granted, he worries that he will have lost out on the construction season until next year, and his agreement for buying the land calls for him to begin construction within six months -- from last May. Ms. Pitts said the city would not take action against Mr. Berkovits as long as he made a good faith effort to seek the city's permission for the construction.
 
'A Summons for Everything'
 Of course, he could build without a permit, but that would only invoke the wrath of the bureaucracy. He has already been hit with one summons for clearing the property without a permit.
"You can't do anything," said Stanley Brill, a business associate of Mr. Berkovits's. "If you start to build the city would hit you with some kind of summons for being in violation of the law. The city has a summons for everything."
To insure that other merchants are spared Mr. Berkovits's predicament, Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer said he has instructed his staff to see how he could officially remove the street from the map.
"Bernie, we're going to try to persuade people that East Tremont doesn't really go through your land," Mr. Ferrer said he would like to tell Mr. Berkovits, when informed of the landlord's predicament. "We want your sales tax and we want you. This is nuts."
Mo Stein, the owner of Frank's Sporting Goods, agrees. There may be no traffic on the imaginary street, but there hasn't been too much traffic on the real one since the fire, either, and that means sales are down for those merchants who survived the fire.
Don't get him started on the city, because he'll only regale you with tales of how the city has not done much for him or his block, a once bustling strip that now is home to one very large, vacant lot.
"It goes to show you the ineptitude of the whole thing," said Mr. Stein, whose business has been on the block for 70 years. "Instead of helping you, they throw hurdles."
As is his wont, Mr. Stein peppered his talk with references to the area's somewhat colorful history, noting that local legend has it that the building next to Mr. Berkovits's vacant lot was once owned by the gangster Dutch Schultz.
Mr. Schultz, he presumed, would have had no difficulty rebuilding.

GRAPHIC: Map of the Bronx showing location of store.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; STREETS; FIRES AND FIREMEN FIRES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAILERS (76%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); HARDWARE STORES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); BUILDING PERMITS (69%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; BERKOVITS, LAZAR MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



465 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Lumber Prices Fall Sharply On Weakness in Housing

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Lumber prices fell sharply yesterday after the Government reported that housing starts were weaker than expected in July.
Adding to the pressure on lumber futures were signs that a rail strike in Canada, which has been hampering lumber deliveries, could be resolved as soon as this week. 
 On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, spruce two-by-fours for September delivery fell $9.10 to close at $260.80 per thousand board feet.
Starts of new housing construction fell 2.7 percent in July, the biggest decline since March. Contributing to the decline was the flooding along the Mississippi River and a slump in construction activity in the West. Housing starts have fallen in four of seven months this year, even though mortgage rates are the lowest in two decades.
Permits for new construction rose 3 percent last month, but activity in the wholesale lumber market remains light. Although mills are offering lumber at $270 per thousand board feet, "there's just no interest," said Bud Merrill, an analyst with Smith Barney Shearson.
Meanwhile, traders said the government of British Columbia could intervene to end the monthlong BC Rail strike as soon as tomorrow. BC Rail's main business is transporting forest products from British Columbia, one of the largest timber producing areas in North America.
"Many people feel the government is getting close to settling the BC Rail strike with a 30-to-45-day cooling-off period," said Curt Cunningham, president of Pacific Futures Trading in Seattle. "That would free up a lot of wood that has been trapped up there."
On other commodity markets, oil futures rose, led by renewed interest in gasoline. Crude oil for September delivery closed 6 cents higher at $17.92 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Heating oil finished 0.10 cent higher at 52.91 cents a gallon and unleaded gasoline finished 0.14 cent higher at 55.78 cents a gallon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (56%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (56%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; HOUSING FUTURES (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); STRIKES (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); SAW MILLS (79%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (79%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (79%); GASOLINE (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); HEATING OIL (77%); LUMBER & WOOD PRODUCT WHOLESALERS (74%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



466 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: An Uneven Corporate Tax Bite

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 17

 BODY:
No two industrial giants fit identically into the folds of the new tax law, any more than two portly accountants would share the same custom-made suit.
The profitable will feel the pinch one way, the unprofitable another; manufacturers and service industries will enjoy different tax breaks. A company might find itself heavily affected by international tax provisions, by the arcana of financial accounting rules, by increased fuel taxes or by the loss of deductions for the lobbying expenses with which corporations defend their interests whenever their tax burden is at stake. 
 The following cases of car makers, airlines, drug companies and banks illustrate how various industries will be affected by the new tax law.
 
Higher Rate for Ford
 At the Ford Motor Company, it is simple which provision of the new law has the biggest effect: the increase in the top corporate income tax rate from 34 percent, to 35 percent.
Like the other big American car makers, Ford has turned the corner back into profitability this year, and although the company would not predict how much higher taxes would cost in the years ahead, there is no question that it will be many millions of dollars.
But the full effect will not be felt right away, said Burton B. Smoliar, Ford's associate general counsel, because the company in recent years paid taxes under the alternative minimum tax system even while losing money. As a result, however, it has earned credits that can reduce its tax burden in the future.
Aside from the corporate rate increase, the bill is a mixed bag for Ford: the tax credits for research and development will help; the costs of international tax provisions are very difficult to predict; the flexible limits on pay for top executives are a new layer of red tape with only marginal economic consequences.
Any disappointment over not receiving an investment tax credit was mitigated. The idea was steadily whittled down from the day it was first introduced, so its absence came as no surprise, and the credit would have been paid for by an additional point on the tax rate, which would have then been 36 percent.
One disappointment for Ford was the law's modest gasoline tax increase of 4.3 cents a gallon, Mr. Smoliar said. Ford advocated a broad- based energy tax or a gasoline tax increase of up to 25 cents a gallon to cut the deficit and conserve energy. That opinion, however, countered the views of some other corporations and ultimately lost.
 
Airline Fuel Costs
 If a higher fuel tax is the sword to cut the Federal budget, the airline industry looks at it with all the enthusiasm of Damocles.
Although the airlines won an exemption from the increase for two years, the Air Transport Association predicts that when they start paying the tax it will cost them $500 million a year and have a significant effect on the industry's profitability. That is about 30 percent of the profits the industry reported in 1988, its record profit year, when the airlines earned $1.7 billion.
But those profits seem distant memories, so the last thing the industry is concerned about is the higher top corporate tax rate. The industry has lost $10 billion in the last three years, and when airlines pay taxes, it is almost always under the alternative minimum tax system, said Richard Janis, head of the Air Transport Association's tax committee.
The industry already has an aggregate $673 million in unused alternative minimum tax credits, a number that grows every year; when an airline does make enough money to incur tax liabilities under the regular tax calculation, the credits are used to reduce those taxes.
More important to the airlines is how the alternative minimum tax itself is calculated. Here, they were moderately pleased by a change in how depreciation is treated in calculating alternative minimum taxes. Depreciation of airplanes is a big factor on airline tax returns, and the savings to the industry will come to an estimated $17 million annually.
But that entire tax savings was outweighed by a provision reducing to 50 percent from 80 percent the deductible portion of business meal expenses. Because the airlines pay per diem costs for flight crews who must stay away from home, the change is expected to cost the industry an estimated $27.5 million a year.
 
Burden for Drug Makers
 The corporate rate may be rising just one percentage point, but the effective rate of taxation for some companies will be skyrocketing because of other provisions -- as the pharmaceuticals giant Pfizer I illustrates.
The changes, especially a cut in the tax incentives for companies that manufacture products in Puerto Rico, will have the effect of raising Pfizer's effective tax rate to 30 percent in 1994 from the 26 percent expected in 1993, the company said.
Pfizer Inc. has been the biggest beneficiary of this tax break, and pharmaceuticals makers in general have historically accounted for about half of all the tax benefits won under the provision, according to the General Accounting Office. Congressional tax experts have estimated that the change in the rules will increase tax receipts by $3.8 billion over five years, but industry experts say the amount will probably be greater.
Other provisions, which affect foreign operations, will also greatly affect the company, said a tax expert at Pfizer, who asked not to be identified.
A new test of whether foreign earnings are subject to taxation will be especially burdensome on pharmaceuticals companies, she said. It will prevent them from deferring payment of American taxes on earnings that are retained overseas for operating expenses like research and marketing.
"Pfizer does not have a choice about whether to manufacture in the European Community or not," she said. "If we are going to sell in Europe, we have to manufacture there." But many of the assets involved are not bricks and mortar but intellectual assets, she added, and consequently the company fails the tests of whether its retained earnings are earned by "active" or "passive" assets as defined under the law. The resulting tax will make it harder to compete with European concerns, she said.
The reinstatement of the research and development tax credit surely will help companies like Pfizer. But because the riskiest of businesses finance most of their research out of retained earnings, the consequences of raising the corporate tax and other tax increases are likely to more than offset this, industry officials said.
 
Intangibles in Banking
 At Amsouth Bank N.A., an $11 billion bank holding company centered in Alabama, financial officers are most interested in the effects of one section of the new law: the provision affecting the amortization of intangible assets, like "good will value."
It is a provision with an impact on banks and savings and loans nationwide. It greatly affects the tax consequences of banking acquisitions over the last two years, when surviving financial institutions took over the assets of those that were seized by the Government.
"We acquired branches from the Resolution Trust Corporation back in 1991 that will be covered," said Lynda Kern, the bank's vice president for tax matters. Sales of credit-card portfolios, mortgage servicing rights and other intangible assets are also affected, she added.
For years, banks reckoned that the premium they pay for acquired deposits represented the hidden value, known as good will, attributable to relationships with customers. In a series of disputes with the Internal Revenue Service, banks had sought to depreciate such intangibles over time. A Supreme Court ruling this year tilted the argument toward the taxpayers, and the new law makes clear that these assets can be written off against income, generally over 15 years.
The provision does not affect only financial institutions, but any company that buys another and gains intangible assets like subscription lists or advertising relationships.
"We haven't pushed all the numbers yet," Ms. Kern said. But she said that clearly this provision was the most important one in the law for the bank. (The provision does not, however, apply to many bank mergers because they so often involve exchanges of stock.)
There are several other effects of the bill that banks must consider, she said, starting with the inevitable increase that the one-point rise in corporate taxes will add to the cost of capital and credit.
For banks that deal in securities, as more and more of them do, there is a new provision requiring securities dealers to mark their securities inventories to market values for Federal income tax purposes. Bank loans are generally not affected by the provision.


GRAPHIC: Projected effects of some major corporate tax provisions in the new tax law. Figures are estimated net gain or loss of tax revenue over the next five Federal fiscal years ending Sept. 30, in millions.
 
PROVISION: Increase top corporate tax rate
To 35 percent from 34.
REVENUE EFFECT: +$16,400
 
PROVISION: Increase estimated tax payments
To 100 percent of total from 97.
REVENUE EFFECT: +7,800
 
PROVISION: Require mark-to-market accounting
Securities dealers must realize paper gains and losses on securities each year, not just when the securities are sold.
REVENUE EFFECT: +3,800
 
PROVISION: Partly remove Puerto Rico shelter
Reduces tax breaks for operating there
REVENUE EFFECT: +3,750
 
PROVISION: Write off intangibles over 15 years
Covers most intangible assets, which are things like the value of brand names, customer lists and licenses.
REVENUE EFFECT: +2,450
 
PROVISION: Take away deductions for lobbying expenses
REVENUE EFFECT: +653
 
PROVISION: Tax overseas profits sooner
Limits U.S. parent corporations' ability to put off paying tax on some of their foreign subsidiaries' earnings.
REVENUE EFFECT: +251
 
PROVISION: Extend research credit
Restores credit for research and development spending that expired in 1992.
REVENUE EFFECT: -973
 
PROVISION: Relax a depreciation rule
Removes depreciation from the equation when corporations that are subject to the alternative minimum tax calculate their adjusted current income
REVENUE EFFECT: -4,300
 
Graph: "Paying Up" shows corporate income tax receipts for federal fiscal years ended Sept. 30, from '80-'92. (Sources: Office of Management and Budget; Congressional Budget Office) (pg. D6)
Chart: "Gains and Losses for Companies"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (50%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; AUTOMOBILES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); BANKS AND BANKING TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AIRLINES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); GASOLINE (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); LAWYERS (75%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); INCOME TAX (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



467 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate

BYLINE: By Maureen Milford

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del.

 BODY:
A FLAGGING urban redevelopment project here, promoted as the state's largest single real estate undertaking when it was announced in 1986, has received a much needed lift from a lending giant that for years had only a limited presence in the state.
The Beneficial Corporation, whose headquarters are now in a suburban Wilmington office park, in June signed a lease with an option to buy on a long-vacant office building in Wilmington's downtown Christina Gateway Financial District near the Christina River. 
 Beneficial, a big multinational lender, also said it might move its management unit from Peapack, N.J., to the Gateway district by the end of the decade, when the New Jersey lease is up.
The company has also taken an option on the last developable parcel in the Gateway Financial District, next door to the 12-story tower in which Beneficial will occupy six floors by 1995.
"Delaware is looking very attractive to us right now, very attractive," said James H. Gilliam Jr., Beneficial's executive vice president. Mr. Gilliam also serves as volunteer chairman of Wilmington 2000, a redevelopment group created by the new Mayor, James H. Sills Jr.
The Beneficial relocation, which will begin by early next year, was cause for celebration by the Sills administration and state officials after three years of a moribund real estate market. The company's decision is the biggest such victory for the city since 1980, when Hercules Inc., the chemical giant, decided to stay in Delaware in a new tower on the Brandywine River.
Downtown Wilmington's 26 or so large office buildings, with 4.5 million square feet of space, have been hard hit in the economic downturn. Developers broke state construction records in the 1980's in a scramble to cash in on the influx of financial institutions attracted by the state's banking and credit card laws. But the heavy corporate migration was over by the late 1980's.
Leasing activity in 1992 was just 126,000 square feet, down 61 percent from the five-year average, according to studies by the Jackson-Cross Company, a commercial real estate firm with offices in Wilmington. The largest lease signed last year was for 17,000 square feet, while total space available at the end of the year was 1.1 million square feet. Vacancy rates were well over 20 percent.
Building owners, facing competition from suburban parks, have been trying to survive, seeking just to maintain their rent rolls, something Gateway has not been able to do.
The 321,500-square-foot building to be occupied by Beneficial went up in the late 1980's for Marine Midland Bank, but the bank decided to get out of Delaware in 1990 and it never moved into the tower. Marine Midland tried unsuccessfully to sublease the space, then eventually bought the building.
A few nibbles on the space that all came to naught made Beneficial's position strong in negotiations with Marine Midland, leasing agents said.
Finn M. W. Caspersen, chairman of Beneficial, said: "Let's just say we got a super deal. Most important to us was that it gave us flexibility, which is a euphemism for expansion."
The Sills administration has provided Beneficial and other large employers with tax breaks.
When Gateway was announced in 1986, the plan called for 1.2 million square feet of office space in three office towers and a waterfront marketplace on the Christina River. Eleven acres in the southeastern section of downtown were assembled by a city and state partnership, cleaned up and readied for development.
A development agreement was signed with the Linpro Company of Berwyn, Pa. and Delledonne & Associates of Wilmington.
Plans called for at least half the project to be finished by 1988, with the marketplace to be completed before 1990. Neither goal was met.
Despite the government backing of the Gateway project, the private sector continued a long trend of moving into space north and west of the city's downtown retail district. The Du Pont Company headquarters on Rodney Square, approximately nine blocks from Gateway, remained the hub of the office district.
Only two office towers have been erected in Gateway: the one that Beneficial has agreed to lease and one leased by First U.S.A. Bank, the first and only major tenant in Gateway since 1989.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPC (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BENEFICIAL CORP HERCULES INC (82%); BENEFICIAL CORP (72%); JACKSON-CROSS CO (63%); HSBC BANK USA NA (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: BENEFICIAL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WILMINGTON (DEL) UNITED STATES (94%); DELAWARE, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; CHRISTINA GATEWAY FINANCIAL DISTRICT (DEL); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RENTING AND LEASING COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEASING INDUSTRY (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); CREDIT REGULATION (72%); MAYORS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); CHEMICALS (50%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%); 

PERSON: MILFORD, MAUREEN

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



468 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Book Notes;
General Powell to Trade the Sword for the Pen

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

 BODY:
For months, New York's big-bucks publishers have been working themselves into a frenzy over Gen. Colin L. Powell, who is to retire as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on Sept. 30 and then, at least in the publishers' minds, immediately begin working on his memoirs.
Yesterday, his agent, Marvin Josephson of International Creative Management, announced that Random House had acquired world rights to the general's autobiography. Rival publishers familiar with the negotiations said the final price was about $6.5 million, which would make it $1.5 million more than Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf reportedly received for his vastly successful autobiography, "It Doesn't Take a Hero" (Bantam), which sold more than a million copies. 
 The announcement followed an intense battle of the publishing titans. The final round of competitors included the Putnam-Berkley Publishing Group. For six months, publishers have been traveling to Washington in a constant caravan, but Random House seems to have deployed the heaviest forces. Harold M. Evans, the publisher of Random House's adult trade group; Alberto Vitale, the chairman of Random House Inc. and Mr. Evans's boss, and S. I. Newhouse Jr., the chairman of Advance Publications and both men's boss, first approached the general more than a year ago and then kept up with frequent visits, telephone calls and letters.
 
Up the Ranks
 Of course, it is far too early to tell whether the hefty advance will be recouped after the book is published, although the publisher stands to take in considerable sums for things like foreign, serial and book club rights. Rival publishers said that among General Powell's most attractive qualities were his record as both a soldier and a policy maker, and his background as the Harlem-born son of Jamaican immigrants.
"This book is about a capable, brilliant man called Colin Powell who happens to be black," said Mr. Evans, who said he would edit the book himself. The as yet untitled book, to be published in 1995, is to be co-written with a professional writer who has yet to be selected, he said.
People familiar with the process said at least one rival publisher, and possibly two, had matched Random House's final price. "Clearly there are at least two publishers who feel that Colin Powell will be at least as successful as Schwarzkopf, if not more so," said Carolyn K. Reidy, the president and publisher of Simon & Schuster's adult trade group, which dropped out of the bidding before the final round.
Mr. Josephson said that before General Powell made the agreement with Random House, he had consulted lawyers to make sure it was legal to sign a book contract before leaving public office. "The contract is very clear that he does zero before Oct. 1," Mr. Josephson said. "The Department of Defense ethics office and a number of lawyers examined it, and there's no question that this is totally and completely legal and aboveboard."
 
'Bridges' Backlash
 "The Bridges of Madison County" -- whose publisher, Warner, has quietly raised its price to $16.95, from $14.95 -- continues to steamroll its way into people's homes. But Tom Clancy's thriller "Without Remorse" (Putnam) has knocked "Bridges," by Robert James Waller, from its berth at No. 1 on the New York Times best-seller list for Aug. 29.
In other "Bridges" news, a sort of backlash against the book, small but increasingly enthusiastic, has developed. Garry Trudeau is even using this week's "Doonesbury" to depict a flood version, "The Washed-Out Bridges of Madison County."
Mr. Trudeau's strips capture quite accurately the tone and language of the actual book. "I was just trying to move it slightly off center and let it condemn itself," said Mr. Trudeau, who read "Bridges" about a month ago after he found it on the desk of his wife, the NBC News correspondent Jane Pauley. "There's no question that this book is deeply resented by some people who think they understand what literature should be."
And Plume announced plans to publish a parody, "The Ditches of Edison County," which chronicles the affair between Pancetta and Concave. (In the real book, they're Francesca and Kincaid.) "We'll make the margins nice and wide, and throw in some of the photos I could never unload anywhere else," said the author, Ronald Richards Roberts. (His real name is Billy Frolick.)
 
Returning an Advance
 In May 1991, when the star of good fortune was shining on President George Bush, Edward Klein, a journalist, signed a contract with Little, Brown to write "a highly personal, minute-by-minute, hour-by-hour account of a political, professional and personal day in the White House with George and Barbara Bush." The publisher promised a fat $500,000 advance, of which one-third, or $166,666, was paid immediately. One-third was to be paid when Mr. Klein submitted the manuscript by Jan. 1, 1992, and the rest was to be paid on publication.
But the plan unraveled quickly. By October 1991, with the economy souring and the President's political future increasingly uncertain, his staff informed Mr. Klein that Mr. Bush would not cooperate until after the election. That meant, in turn, that Mr. Klein could not meet his deadline and fulfill his contract with Little, Brown. The publisher canceled the contract on Nov. 6, 1991, and demanded its $166,666 back.
It is not uncommon for authors and publishers to quarrel about advances and contracts; the business is full of cases of blocked writers who fall behind schedule, and of publishers who decide that submitted manuscripts are unacceptably bad or too far afield from the topics agreed upon. What does seem unusual about this case, however, is that after a year of haggling in which both sides tried to settle the issue, Little, Brown sued Mr. Klein for the money -- and won.
In an opinion dated Aug. 13, Justice Peter Tom of State Supreme Court in Manhattan granted summary judgment to the publisher, saying Mr. Klein had clearly breached his contract. Details of the ruling were first published on Monday in The New York Law Journal.
Both sides said in interviews that they had not wanted the matter to go to court. And each accused the other of acting in bad faith.
After the book project fell apart, both sides said, they set about resolving the matter, either by finding another book for Mr. Klein or by negotiating a repayment schedule. Neither plan worked.
Mr. Klein, a contributing editor at Vanity Fair and a former editor of The New York Times Magazine, said he certainly thought he owed something to the publisher. "It was never a case that I felt I had no obligation to Little, Brown," he said, adding that when the contract was canceled, he had already spent part of the money on general expenses and preliminary research. He said Little, Brown had demanded the money back much more quickly than he could afford to repay it and then gave scant attention to a number of ideas for new books. "I came up with numerous written proposals and made numerous presentations for substitute books," he said, "but they were strangely uncooperative, to say the least."
Charles E. Hayward, the president of Little, Brown, said almost exactly the same thing about Mr. Klein. "I didn't think he was making a serious enough effort to repay the money," he said, adding that Little, Brown had proposed a repayment schedule that Mr. Klein rejected out of hand.
"A six-figure advance was paid to an author for a book that was clearly contingent on the cooperation of the President, and it wasn't long after the money was paid that it became clear the President wasn't going to cooperate," he said. "I said, 'Let's try to find a new book,' and he came up with what I thought were a bunch of superficial ideas. At the end of the day, I felt we were dealing with someone who wasn't acting in good faith."
Mr. Klein's lawyer, Leon Friedman, said the next step had not been decided.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (85%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: RANDOM HOUSE INC; WARNER BOOKS ; LITTLE BROWN & CO RANDOM HOUSE INC (85%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT LTD (57%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT INC (57%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: RANDOM HOUSE INC; WARNER BOOKS ; LITTLE BROWN & CO JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; CONTRACTS; COMIC BOOKS AND STRIPS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; PRICES ; BOOK TRADE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE PUBLISHING (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); LAWYERS (62%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (61%); LITIGATION (60%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: POWELL, COLIN L (GEN); TRUDEAU, GARRY ; KLEIN, EDWARD; BUSH, GEORGE; LYALL, SARAH H NORMAN SCHWARZKOPF (57%); S I NEWHOUSE JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



469 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK;
Cabernet On Tap (Not for Cork Sniffers)

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

 BODY:
"THERE'S no wine in the house. Run out and get a box of chardonnay."
A box of chardonnay? Sure -- why not? Chardonnay, cabernet sauvignon, sauvignon blanc, whatever you like. 
 While you may have been poring over vintage charts, joining tasting groups, trying to use precisely the right glass and wondering if your precious 1982's are over the hill, lots of people have been just drinking wine.
There is no law that says you have to be a connoisseur to enjoy a glass of wine. Nor is it written that you have to read a wine textbook before you pull a cork -- or, more often, unscrew a cap.
Don't get nervous: this is not going to be an anti-intellectual tract or an exercise in praise of wine boorishness. It's just pleasant, now and then, to recognize that there is another world of wine, far removed from the precious confines of the cork sniffers.
Who are the cork sniffers? The term is one of mild derision applied to folks who take wine very seriously. Who applies it? Beer salesmen, whisky salesmen -- people in the more traditional, more unbuttoned segments of the liquor business.
All cork sniffers drink wine, presumably, but not all wine drinkers are cork sniffers. What provokes this insight is a report, admittedly self-serving, from the people at Franzia Vineyards in California predicting that in 1993, Americans will drink some 40 million gallons of wine out of boxes.
Now, 40 million gallons is a lot of wine, more than 16.5 million cases. No cork sniffer would be caught dead with a box of wine, but if the Franzias are to be believed, there are plenty of Americans who think the wine box is a good idea.
The wine box, or as it is more commonly known, the bag-in-the-box, has been around for at least 20 years. It first enjoyed considerable popularity in Australia. It has had some success in Europe but until recently never made any serious inroads on the American market. In this country, about the only thing shared by connoisseurs and the consumers of inexpensive wine has been the conviction that wine should come in bottles.
There is little doubt among wine professionals that the recession has given the bag-in-the-box a boost. Indeed, there has been a minor revolution in the wine business as a hugh segment of the market discovered that wine does not have to be expensive to taste good.
"Five years ago, I predicted that within 10 years, 80 percent of all wine in large sizes -- three liters or more -- would be in boxes," said Arthur Ciocca, president of The Wine Group, Franzia's parent company. "We're at 33 percent now."
Franzia has about 90 percent of the wine-box business in this country, mostly under its own name but also under the Summit and Colony labels. Almaden Vineyards, now a subsidiary of Heublein, produces some wine boxes. Heublein also sells some under the once legendary Inglenook label.
The most common size of wine box bought by individuals is five liters, which holds slightly less than seven bottles of wine. (There is also an 18-liter box, bought primarily by restaurants.) It costs anywhere from $9 to $12, or about $1.30 to $1.70 a bottle. The box -- Franzia calls its version the Winetap -- takes up about a third less space than a four-liter glass jug and about the same space as four single bottles. A built-in tap makes pouring wine simple; there is no need to remove the box from the refrigerator. The bag that holds the wine inside the box is an airtight polyethelene container that collapses as the wine is poured. No air gets in, which means the wine can last for days.
What about quality? Within their category, the Franzia wines are first rate. If that sounds like a qualfied statement, it is. They are relatively soft and fruity with a touch of sweetness. A devotee of great Bordeaux will find little excitement here. But devotees of great Bordeaux are few, and people who like an occasional glass of easy-to-drink, unpedigreed wine are, apparently, legion.
Franzia offers 11 different wines in boxes. In the past, bag-in-the-box wines were almost exclusively generics, that is, blends of wine from various grapes, given names like burgundy and claret. Many box wines are still generics, like Franzia's Mountain Chablis, which is certainly not Chablis and probably has nothing to do with mountains but is a fresh, pleasant wine. Burgundy and Rhine are the other two generics in the line.
But now there are varietals in boxes. A varietal is a wine that bears the name of the principal grapes from which it is made; cabernet sauvignon, for example, or chardonnay, or the most popular of all, white zinfandel. Franzia boxes all three. Other Franzia varietals are sauvignon blanc, white grenache, French colombard and chenin blanc. Note that only two of the 11 Franzia varietals are red wines: cabernet sauvignon and Burgundy.
Not too many years ago, the idea of putting cabernet or chardonnay in a box would have been unthinkable. They were the noble grapes of France and the great vineyards of northern California. They were hard to grow and expensive to turn into wine.
Today there are plenty of good grapes available, and wineries like E.& J. Gallo, Glen Ellen, Fetzer and Sutter Home produce millions of bottles of these once rare wines at highly competitive prices -- so competitive that the wines are called fighting varietals. In 1992, according to Impact, a wine and spirits trade publication, California table-wine shipments increased by 8.1 percent from the previous year.
Generic wines were up a modest 2.2 percent, but varietals, led by white zinfandel, were up 15.3 percent from 47.7 million cases to 55 million.
There is little argument over the fact that the bag-in-the-box is one of the most economical and efficient ways to package wines that will be drunk soon after purchase. Image is what has held the boxes back. Wine drinking has long been inextricably intertwined with prestige and tradition. What other product could survive with so inconvenient a package as the cork-stoppered bottle?
Finally, faced with a shortage of good corks and a proliferation of bad ones, the industry is grudgingly turning to alternate stoppers. And there is less consumer rejection that anyone predicted. In France, for the longest time, the only wines found in boxes were heavy reds and dull whites from the furnacelike vineyards of Languedoc-Roussillon. In recent years, good Cotes du Rhone has made its appearance in a box, along with some pleasant whites from the Loire. Can Beaujolais be far behind?
And in this country, will wine in a box move up the social scale? With chardonnay and cabernet already boxed in, it looks like it already has.
 
TASTINGS
Chateau de Jau, Cotes du Roussillon, 1988. About $4.50.
 Consumers have good reason to be wary of yet another label from the South of France. Wines of all kinds spring forth in great profusion from that fruitful region, mostly to disappear without a trace in a few months. Here is an exception.
The Daure family, wine and spirits distributors, has invested healthy amounts of love and money in the Chateau de Jau, an impressive estate in the arid, Arizona-like country north and west of Perpignan.
The Cotes du Roussillon appellation, created in 1977, is a testimony to the steady improvement in the wines of this hot region. But the Chateau de Jau has gone further, producing a lovely, aromatic, medium-bodied red wine from carignan, grenache and some minor local grapes. A remarkable bargain.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (67%); EUROPE (67%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WINE GROUP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (67%); EUROPE (67%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES; CONTAINERS AND PACKAGING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (71%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



470 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: A Challenge for Kids -- and the Military

 BODY:
America's military forces are redefining themselves in the post-cold-war era. At the same time, many poor and minority youths aren't succeeding in school or in life. That's why a new National Guard initiative seems like a good idea for the military, for troubled youths and for society.
The initiative is the Youth Corps ChalleNGe program (the capitalized NG is for National Guard), which enlists current and former military personnel to teach and counsel young men and women who have dropped out of school. The teaching is aimed at preparing them to obtain a high school equivalency diploma. The counseling is to help them cope with life. 
 To qualify for the program, which is now getting its first test in Connecticut, a dropout must be 16 to 18 years old and unemployed; only those on probation or parole or with charges pending against them will be disqualified. The program's mission is to intervene before it's too late in the lives of youths who are at risk. While these young people are not recruited for military service, they do get a healthy dose of military discipline. Their uniforms consist mainly of T-shirts and sweat pants, and their days are carefully structured.
Over 22 weeks, participants attend classes in academic subjects like English, math and science. They also hear talks on citizenship and leadership and learn routine skills like balancing a checkbook. At the end of the program, each participant who receives an equivalency diploma, gets a job or goes on to college will be awarded a stipend of $2,200.
The Federal Government has appropriated $44 million for the program's first year, which will finance pilot projects in 10 states. "We offer the gift of hope," says Dan Donohue, the Guard's public affairs director and the principal developer of the ChalleNGe program. That could be true for the military services seeking new challenges as well as for the dropouts.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GUARD (US); NATIONAL GUARD YOUTH CORPS CHALLENGE

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GUARD (US); NATIONAL GUARD YOUTH CORPS CHALLENGE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDITORIALS; DROPOUTS COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); PAROLE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



471 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: The Military Is Not a Social Program

BYLINE: By James Webb; James Webb was Assistant Secretary of Defense and Secretary of the Navy in the Reagan Administration.

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va.

 BODY:
Our society is becoming ever more divided between people of thought and people of action. Thus, it is not surprising that a wide array of politicians and commentators found the order by the Marine Corps Commandant that would have limited enlistments to unmarried recruits an object of easy derision.
Administration officials concede that Gen. Carl E. Mundy Jr. possesses the authority to change Marine recruitment policy without their approval. Nonetheless, the order was quickly rescinded, and he was subjected to a public dressing-down for having exercised his judgment without their concurrence. 
 The general may, indeed, have committed a procedural error. But the reaction to his order and the inability of those in political and media power to clearly see the problem he is trying to address give us a nice allegory of why our national leadership has become so derailed and unrespected.
President Clinton, who has never held a non-bureaucratic or even a private-sector job and is well-remembered for his youthful letter sympathizing with those who "loathed" the military, was said to be astonished at General Mundy's decision. According to The New York Times, the plan flew in the face of Mr. Clinton's "commitment to have the military reflect society at large."
Representative Pat Schroeder, who claims military expertise from having gone to Armed Services Committee meetings for two decades, during which she has tried to civilianize the military and cut billions of dollars annually from its operating budget, dismissed General Mundy as a cultural Neanderthal. With an arrogance that has become her imprimatur, she wondered whether he had "taken leave of his senses" and pointed out that "even the Pope allows his Swiss Guards to be married." "Marines have always been the least family-friendly," she said, "and I think we now see that policy in action."
The New York Times's front-page coverage said that General Mundy's plan involved "constitutional questions of discrimination and privacy." The Washington Post termed him a "zealous steward of tradition in what is by far the most conservative and insular of the military services."
From a chorus of people who have never handled an operating budget or been responsible for troops sent in harm's way comes an unspoken litany: We are smarter than you. General Mundy could have a field day responding to their comments. For starters:
* How far does Mr. Clinton wish to go in order to have a military that "reflects society at large"? Should we lower its educational standards, since the military's percentage of high school graduates is higher than society's? Should we reduce opportunities for minorities, since they are more prevalent in the military than in society? Should Yale lawyers and Rhodes scholars serve in the same percentages as they exist in society?
* How often does Ms. Schroeder think the Swiss Guards travel thousands of miles from their wives for a year at a time? And since when have they required the training, weapons and logistics for heavy combat?
* When do phrases like "least family-friendly" and "most conservative and insular" simply mask an arrogance toward an institution that, beyond cavil, is the least problem-filled and most combat-ready military service our country has ever fielded?
The country and the other military services should listen to General Mundy. He is not harking to the past but informing us of the realities of the future. The greatest challenge as our military weans itself from its NATO role and shapes its forces for the future will be to build and sustain a highly maneuverable and cost-effective fighting force. This will require planners to go against the grain of many recruitment policies that gave us the all-volunteer military.
The all-volunteer system has drawn heavily on young enlistees who are married or wish to marry, because of remarkable family benefits that include free medical care, housing, day care, counseling services, commissary and PX privileges and generous early retirement.
Predictably, the percentage of young marrieds ballooned as these benefits improved. Although only 14 percent of Army soldiers holding the rank of E-5 were married in 1971, by 1986 that percentage was 73 percent. Today, 40 percent of Marines on their first enlistment are married, and those marriages are suffering a 40 percent divorce rate.
During my time in the Pentagon, the Army's No. 1 budget priority was its quality-of-life programs, which cost more than $6 billion a year. Even in the 1980's, this ever-increasing spending caused concern among planners, since payments to keep the troops happy and encourage retention took money away from go-to-war budget areas related to mobilization, combat medical readiness and logistics.
But military leaders scarred from the disciplinary nightmare of the final days of conscription, as well as the leaders of our NATO allies, were comfortable with the greater percentage of marrieds. They were a more contented force; they fit well with the garrison mentality of NATO forces, causing less problems off-base and pumping more money into foreign economies.
But as our NATO bases are being shut down, these circumstances are changing. With a smaller force structure and wider range of potential crisis areas, the Army and tactical Air Force will certainly experience more unscheduled deployments, accompanied by greater family turbulence.
The Navy and Marine Corps, with its forces continually deployed worldwide without families, began feeling the magnitude of problems associated with young marrieds before the Army and Air Force.

For decades, in peace and war, a junior enlisted man or officer in the sea services has been away from home six months each year on average. As these services are cut back further -- without any reduction in the worldwide commitments demanded of them -- an even harsher operational schedule and greater family separation can be expected.
If a service chief is given less money and fewer people to perform essentially the same tasks, how can he best meet his requirements? If offered the choice between two people of equal talent, one of which needs only a bunk while the other requires full family benefits, including counseling when a teen-age marriage goes sour, which should he choose?
To put it another way, if one is given the awesome task of providing the best defense a specific sum can buy, should he be faulted for wanting to put the money into troops and weapons rather than into dependents and day care centers?
Perhaps a complete ban on married enlistees is overkill. But a Commandant who takes his stewardship seriously -- and politicians and commentators whose true focus is effective national defense -- would ask that this issue be thoroughly examined as a matter of fiscal and practical leadership.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MARINE CORPS (US) WASHINGTON POST CO (52%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (84%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARINE CORPS (US) UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (84%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; MARRIAGES; DISCRIMINATION; MILITARY PERSONNEL; SINGLE PERSONS; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE ARMED FORCES (93%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); FAMILY (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MILITARY RECRUITING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); MARRIAGE (68%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: WEBB, JAMES BILL CLINTON (78%); JIM WEBB (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



472 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Teachers in U.S. Trail Those Elsewhere in Pay

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d

 BODY:
American schoolteachers make less money, receive less training and spend less time preparing for their classes than their peers in many other countries, according to a new study by the American Federation of Teachers.
The study, which combines reports from other countries and original research in the United States, paints a portrait of a profession under stress. The A.F.T., the nation's second largest teachers' union, asserted that despite improvements in teacher salaries, training and preparation in many states, failure to do more might discourage bright young people from starting teaching careers. 
 These were among the study's findings:
*The top salaries for American high school teachers average $38,000 a year, as against $43,000 in Germany, $45,000 in Japan, $47,000 in Ottawa and $70,000 in Geneva. National figures were not available for Canada and Switzerland. European countries tend to pay elementary school teachers about the same as those in the United States, but Japanese and Canadian elementary teachers make more. European and Asian countries generally have school years slightly longer than those in the United States.
*American teachers are required to earn four-year degrees; Japanese teachers and most European teachers receive six years of college training, using the extra years to develop specialties or strengthen their areas of expertise.
*American teachers get less time to prepare for classes. Japanese teachers, for instance, get an average of four hours in the school day, twice as much as American teachers.
Whether American teachers will be able to close the salary gap with teachers in other countries depends on many factors, among them economic recovery, state and local politics, the various movements to overhaul public education and the willingness of teachers and their unions to submit to more training and more rigid job-performance reviews.
"We're at a crossroads, where the fate of the profession is linked to a whole bunch of things," said Albert Shanker, president of the teachers' federation, which has 820,000 members. "Either we move to the models of other industrial nations with standards and assessments, or we move to a market system with vouchers, where we give parents the money and let them find the schools they want."
Even in places where teachers have won significant pay increases, student performance has not always made commensurate gains. Teachers in Rochester, for example, won a 53 percent pay increase for three years ending in 1990; it is believed to be the largest raise ever awarded teachers. They won another 15 percent increase through 1992.
But the lack of improvement in student performance in Rochester has left the perception that "a lot of people think the teachers got the money up front and ran," said Adam Urbansky, president of the Rochester Teachers Association.
A widespread feeling among the public is that for all the increases in overall spending for education -- including teacher salaries -- schools often do not seem to produce results. One study by a group of citizens in the Johnsburg Central School District in central New York found that although spending had increased significantly since 1980, with much of the increase going for teacher salaries, gains in student performance were slight.
But teachers say they are caught in a double bind: whatever their pay, they alone cannot turn around schools, but as long as school boards do not pay them more, too few of the brightest and most energetic young people will feel compelled to enter the profession.
 
Looking for Respect
 "When you compare teacher salaries to lawyers and doctors and others, I don't think we get paid much at all given the importance of our job," said Ricky Bible, a high school English teacher in Dallas who said he was considering leaving the profession. "We do not get the respect other professions do."
The A.F.T. study recommended that teacher salaries be standardized to a greater degree, eliminating the disparities from state to state and reducing teachers' time in the classrooms to give them more time for preparation. It also said that training for high school teachers should be strengthened and that the school year be should be lengthened by two weeks.
While teacher colleges have in recent years bolstered requirements for teachers in many states, budget cuts have prompted schools to reduce services across the board, including teacher training and retraining. To strengthen such programs, as the study suggests, would cost more money than the public is willing to pay, particularly in austere times.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 1993, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on the Education page yesterday comparing teachers' average salaries omitted a key in some editions. For each country or city shown, the shortest bar showed starting salary, the middle-length bar was the mid-career salary, and the longest bar was the top salary.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Teacher's Salaries: How They Compare" shows average 1992 salaries of upper secondary school teachers around the world and average salaries for white-collar professions within the U.S. (Sources: American Federation of Teachers; United States Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (93%); SWITZERLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS AMERICAN FEDERATION INSURANCE CO (92%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (94%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (94%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (93%); SWITZERLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; RESEARCH; WAGES AND SALARIES TEACHING & TEACHERS (94%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993



473 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: TERRORISTS HELPED BY SUDAN, U.S. SAYS

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 18

 BODY:
The Administration's decision to add the Sudan to the list of countries that sponsor international terrorism was based on evidence that the Sudan harbors terrorists, and not because of any Sudanese links to a reported plot to bomb targets in New York City, United States officials said today.
The State Department spokesman, Michael McCurry, said evidence indicated that the Sudan had allowed its territory to be used as a sanctuary for groups like the Abu Nidal organization, the Party of God and the Palestine Islamic Holy War. The State Deparment considers all three groups terrorist organizations. 
 "We also believe safe houses and other facilities used to support radical groups are allowed to exist in Sudan with the apparent approval of the Sudanese Government's leadership," Mr. McCurry said. "Further, we believe that reports of training in Sudan of militant extremists that commit acts of terrorism in neighboring countries are credible."
 
No Proven Links to New York
 But he said there was insufficient evidence to link the Sudan to any plot to bomb the United Nations, the Hudson River tunnels and other sites in New York.
State Department officials said the investigation, ordered last December by former Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger, was ready last month, but had been delayed so links between Khartoum and the 10 people indicted in the reported New York plot could be explored.
An Administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the investigation did not confirm any connection. One official said that based on information from the prosecutors, evidence linking the Sudan to the conspiracy is "weak at this time," though some State Department officials have said in the past that they believe there is evidence of a link.
Officials indicated that the Sudanese Government, led by Lieut. Gen. Omar Hassan el-Bashir, was added to the list of nations supporting terrorism because it had failed to respond to repeated requests for information on suspected training sites, safe houses and other terrorist activities.
 
Denials by the Sudan
 A State Department official said the Sudan had repeatedly denied any involvement in terrorism, but had provided no explanations for suspected activity within its borders. "They didn't respond with anything that we considered credible," the official said. "Basically, they just denied, denied, denied."
The decision to list Sudan as a terrorist state means that the Government will be ineligible for United States economic and military aid, of which it receives virtually none at the moment. Relief aid of $56 million for refugees in the southern Sudan will not be affected; about 5 million Sudanese have been displaced by famine and civil war.
Officials from private aid organizations and from the State Department expressed concern that the Sudan would block refugee assistance after the Administration's decision.
President Bashir said today that he would not accept aid from Washington, The Associated Press reported. "Talking about the continuing humanitarian assistance means talking about an American intelligence presence in Sudan," he said, which "would make our country a theater for spies and agents."
 
An Awkward Intersection
 "It's a real dicey thing," a State Department official said about the refugee program. "We have played a very, very big role in the international community's response to the humanitarian crisis. It's mostly our money and mostly our people there. What I would hate for this to do, is sort of get wrapped up around this terrorism-list issue. The two are distinct issues."
Khartoum has a long record of making promises not to interfere with relief shipments, then breaking them, officials from the State Department and relief organizations say.
"The Sudanese Government has, over time, consistently tried to manipulate humanitarian relief effort towards its own political ends," said Hiram Ruiz, a policy analyst with the United States Committee for Refugees.
Still, some officials say it is doubtful the Sudan will carry through on a threat to block aid because that would only cause more political instability. In addition, most food aid enters the Sudan from Ethiopia and Kenya and is distributed in areas the Government does not control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SUDAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (78%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%); ABU NIDAL ORGANIZATION (91%); ABU NIDAL ORGANIZATION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT ABU NIDAL ORGANIZATION (91%); ABU NIDAL ORGANIZATION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY SUDAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUDAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; ISLAM TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); REFUGEES (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); DISPLACED PERSONS (75%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); FAMINE (70%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



474 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 6; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Magazines Remake Family, or Vice Versa

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

 BODY:
WHEN BMW starts advertising itself as the car for "quality carpooling," you know major movement has appeared on the sonogram of popular culture.
A new brood of magazines and their advertisers have decided that it is family fun time in America. Geared toward a generation of parents -- 52 million strong -- for whom the dictatorial blueprints of the 1950's fit as well as Guess jeans during a pregnancy, they are less about coping with colic than about the existential gestalt of it all. 
 The latest player in the Candyland of magazine publishing is Family Life, a bimonthly for families with children ages 3 to 12, which made its debut last week. It is published by Straight Arrow Publishers Inc., a k a Jann Wenner, founder of Rolling Stone, and has been promoted with this pearlescent Wennerism: "A generation that once raised hell is now raising kids."
Along with Family Fun, a two-year-old magazine that was bought by Disney last year, Family Life joins a retinue of publications trailing the modern family. They include Parenting (circulation 925,000), from Time Warner Inc.; Child (circulation 600,000), a New York Times Company magazine, and that venerable staple of motherhood, Parents (circulation 1.75 million), founded in 1926 and owned by Gruner & Jahr USA Publishing.
Together, they represent a road map for a new generation of parents who have rejected "she" in favor of the androgynous "we."
"The 80's were about glitzy consumption," said Martin S. Walker, a magazine consultant. "The magazines are about the familial version of conspicuous consumption but also about togetherness."
So long, Baby Magic, Kotex and Hamburger Helper. The stork that delivered Family Life gets clipped at Frederic Fekkai and, if the magazine's advertisements are any indication, is heavily into Sony sketch pads, Macintosh computers, Ralph Lauren Poloboys and Dodge Minivans.
But beyond the ads, which manipulate 1990's parental and even social consciousness with an eerie (and perhaps cynical) perceptiveness, Family Life and other parenting magazines are an effort to rewrite the bibles read by the readers' mothers, which seemed to treat child rearing like a Betty Crocker cake mix.
"I looked at all those magazine cover lines that said things like 'Is Your Baby Sitter a Serial Killer?," said Nancy Evans, Family Life's editor in chief. "I saw the worried brow of womanhood. They all seemed connected with anxiety. They didn't address joy. They were all about 'wrong.' "
There are some palpable trends underlining Ms. Evans's shift from "what to do with a 4 A.M.fever" to more charming, Up With People-ish subjects like a profile of the Beasley public school in Chicago.
In contrast to the 1950's, when the readers of parenting magazines were young mothers in their 20's for whom child-rearing was a full-time job, the potential audience of Family Life and Family Fun is the 52 million adults with children 3 to 12. Family Life is aimed at parents in their 30's and early 40's, what is unceremoniously known in the obstetrics field as "advanced maternal age." They are dual-income, college-educated couples who are presumably more worldly and confident and less in need of a guru than their mothers were.
The new magazines have working-parent guilt going for them and the knowledge that unstructured family time is an increasingly precious commodity. Like their predecessors, they try to offer ideas for creative parenthood, beyond getting videos to baby-sit the children. "We are an information-hungry generation," said Carol A. Smith, the president of Parenting.
But in recycling the social consciousness of the 1960's and perhaps repenting the 1980's, they are also trying something more profound, symbolized by a provocative Robert Coles essay in Family Life, "The Commitment to Doing Good." The mission of Family Life, according to Ms. Evans's inaugural editor's note, is to be "the national kitchen table where we can talk about everything from how to entertain the kids at the next birthday party to how to make our schools better."
The premise is that readers have moved beyond advertisers' admonishments, like that expressed in a recent ad for Baby Orajel, a toothpaste, which shows a beautiful baby and the tag line "She's 7 months old and she already has plaque."
Graphically, the magazine breaks the mold, exuding the winsome charm of children's book illustrations. Both advertisements and articles highlight many expensive things to buy. Among the articles in the premiere issue is a poignant article by Melissa Fay Greene on the "Left-Out Child," Jill Krementz's guide to creating a family photo album and hip critiques of children's music, in which the reviewer cautions parents to have "a long, thoughtful time-out" before exposing their children to Alvin and the Chipmunks' singing "Achy Breaky Heart."
Family Life's net is wide, but not exactly new. As Mr. Walker notes, the life style approach to parenting began in the mid-1980's, most notably with the success of Parenting and Child magazines, which have bucked the recession and created the impression that parenting is "hot."
Parenting, whose circulation has grown from an initial 200,000, to 925,000, was founded in 1987 by Robin Wolaner, a former publisher of Mother Jones. Ms. Wolaner is widely credited with pioneering the concept of a parenting magazine for educated baby boomers. Parenting addresses the delicacies of maternal eyebrow-plucking as well as the plight of children in Bosnia. And it does not forsake the droolers. A major source of readers for Parenting are subscribers of Baby Talk, a magazine for expectant and new mothers also owned by Time Warner.
The typical reader of Child, according to Daniel Ambrose, its publisher, is a college-educated woman; the average age is 34. Aware that developmental stages are specific -- translation: once you've mastered potty training, the last thing you want to do is read about it -- the magazine has begun to customize its product, tailoring editorial inserts to parents of children in particular age groups.
Family Fun, a bimonthly which will turn monthly in November, is focused on the "family fun years," devoid of diapers, in which it is finally possible, in the words of president and editor Jake Winebaum, to "start influencing how your kid learns and perceives the world."
For parents who aren't artistically inspired, it does for their creativity what Cliff Notes can do for Tolstoy. In the most recent issue, for instance, the magazine looked at educational projects at museums around the country and showed readers how to duplicate them. (Tell the truth: did you know Jell-O bends light like a magnifying glass?)
Mr. Winebaum edits the magazine from Northampton, Mass., and said he remains editorially independent of Disney, whose name does not appear on the masthead page. But the ramifications of Disney's ownership are awesome. When the feverishly awaited "Aladdin" video comes out in October, every box, according to Mr. Winebaum, will contain a Family Fun subscription card.
But parental caution is advised: The effect of reading too many parenting magazines can be a little bit like walking into your living room to discover Play-Doh in the carpeting and passionate Crayola designs on the walls.
Of course, nothing lasts forever, including the family fun years. Soon, another new crop of magazines will doubtlessly appear, catering to those glorious Macho-Maturity years.

GRAPHIC: Photo of various "family" magazines. (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMW3 (FRA) (91%); BMW (BIT) (91%); NYT (NYSE) (83%); TWX (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (68%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FAMILY LIFE (MAGAZINE); FAMILY FUN (MAGAZINE); CHILD (MAGAZINE); PARENTS MAGAZINE; PARENTING (MAGAZINE) BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (91%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (83%); TIME WARNER INC (68%); GRUNER & JAHR USA PUBLISHING (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILY LIFE (MAGAZINE); FAMILY FUN (MAGAZINE); CHILD (MAGAZINE); PARENTS MAGAZINE; PARENTING (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS FAMILY (92%); PUBLISHING (90%); PARENTING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TRENDS (88%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); 

PERSON: BROWN, PATRICIA LEIGH JANN WENNER (57%); RALPH LAUREN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



475 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Tax Break to Aid Museums

BYLINE: By IRVIN MOLOTSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 18

 BODY:
In large part because a van Gogh portrait of a troubled 19th-century doctor is now on the wall of a Japanese collector instead of in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the United States tax code has been substantially revised to encourage donations of artworks to museums instead of their sale on the market.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, pushed through the change in the law, which President Clinton signed this month as part of the budget package. 
 Mr. Moynihan, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, which wrote the change in the law increasing the tax advantage to donors, pointed to statistics on gifts to museums that showed a huge drop in donations when a tax break for gifts to museums was deleted from 1987 to 1990, and then a sharp rise when it was temporarily restored during an 18-month window in 1991 and 1992.
"We went through what the scientists would call a natural experiment when the break was taken away in 1986," Senator Moynihan said. "Gifts of objects of art just dried up. Bang! They stopped."
 
A Case Study
 The van Gogh that used to be at the Met, "Portrait of Dr. Gachet," is cited by museum officials as a leading example of how the tax law discouraged such donations.
The painting was owned by the heirs of Siegfried Kramarsky, a New York banker and philanthropist. It is an evocative depiction by van Gogh of his friend and physician, Paul-Ferdinand Gachet, and was lent to the Met in 1984. Until 1990, it was assumed that the painting would remain there.
"I think the implication was there," said Ashton Hawkins, the Met's executive vice president and chief counsel. But he said he understood the heirs' decision to sell the painting. "We really couldn't blame them," he said. "How can we compete? We never felt angered at them, but at the situation."
Under the old law, if the heirs had donated the painting to the Met, they effectively could have deducted from their taxes only what Kramarsky paid for it in the late 1930's, even though the value of van Gogh's works had soared. If they had chosen to deduct the current market value of the painting, it would have made them liable for the alternative minimum tax, which would have substantially increased their tax liability.
How much the Kramarsky heirs would have increased their tax liability by donating the painting would have depended on their income and their other deductions, such as those for state and local taxes, which would have been disallowed under the alternative minimum tax application. Those figures have not been made public.
So, instead of giving the painting to the Met and increasing their taxes, they put it up for auction. It sold for $82.5 million, and they paid a capital gains tax, which in their case was far less than the alternative minimum tax. If they had kept the painting until now, they could have deducted its current value from their taxes and not have been put in the minimum tax category.
The Japanese buyer, Ryoei Saito, an industrialist, got his painting, and the Kramarsky heirs got an astounding price and paid a low tax. And the Met lost a van Gogh.
 
Small Museums Suffer
 It is not just the big museums that lost donations under the old law, according to statistics gathered by the American Association of Museums.
Last October, when the association made its survey, the Columbia Museum of Art and Gibbes Planetarium in Columbia, S.C., reported that it had received no gifts since the 18-month window closed on July 1, 1992. The Peabody Museum in Salem, Mass., said gift-giving was "absolutely dry."
In Rochester, the Memorial Art Gallery said that it had received just 6 gifts in 1990, when the alternative minimum tax was in effect, but 114 gifts during the window. In the three months after the window closed, it received two gifts.
The Seattle Art Museum reported it had received 300 objects a month in May and June 1992. With the window closed, it received 7 last August.
 
The Window Effect
 Earl A. Powell 3d, the director of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, was head of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art when the window closed in 1992.
"It had a phenomenal effect on drying up contributions," Mr. Powell said. "We hope things will improve now. We expect renewed interest in contributions, but it's a little early to tell."
In 1986, when donors could give tax-deductible donations to museums without being put in the alternative minimum tax category, the National Gallery received 1,890 gifts and bequests. When the law changed the next year, the number of gifts fell to 247. During the window, the number jumped to 2,444.
At the Met, Mr. Hawkins said, results were similar. The number of donors fell from 356 in 1986 to 248 in 1987 and even more sharply in the following years, then rose to 312 during the window. Stated in dollars, the impact was even greater. The 1990 gifts were valued at $9,049,980; in 1991 they jumped to $42,810,165.
Mr. Powell praised Senator Moynihan for getting the law changed, saying, "I think it's a terrific thing that it's been restored," although he added that he did not expect an immediate surge in gifts because of the poor economy.
 
Broadening the Breaks
 The fact that the chairman of the tax-writing Finance Committee was a New Yorker was important, Mr. Hawkins said. He described a session held to negotiate differences between the House and the Senate versions of the budget bill. He said Senator Moynihan had insisted on restoring the tax break for donors and quoted him as saying, "One of the things I'm not going to negotiate is full restoration of the tax deduction."
Senator Moynihan's counterpart in the House of Representatives, Dan Rostenkowski, Democrat of Illinois, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, had opposed the tax break in the past. But an aide said Mr. Rostenkowski had eased his opposition after hearing from art institutions in his hometown, Chicago.
Mr. Rostenkowski agreed to the full restoration of the tax deduction, as long as the measure was broadened to permit, for example, gifts of stocks to colleges and universities so that it was not "biased toward the art world." That was done, and the measure was approved.
One of those who lobbied Mr. Rostenkowski was Larry TerMolen, the executive vice president for development and public affairs at the Art Institute of Chicago, which had suffered under the old law.
"In December 1991 alone," he said, referring to a time when gifts to museums were fully deductible, "we received a record 1,895 gifts. In December 1992, we got five gifts. We attribute it totally to the change in the tax law.
"We contacted Chairman Rostenkowski's office; he was the key person for us. We're delighted with the change. Obviously, the public will benefit in the long term, and that's the important thing."
 
The Bottom Line
 Ed Able, executive director of the American Association of Museums, said, "I don't think there's anyone we didn't lobby." He added that he thought the impact on the Treasury would not be great.
According to a Congressional Budget Office study, he said, the change will cost the United States $400 million over five years, a figure that includes deductions for gifts of stocks to colleges and land to nature conservancies, as well as works given to arts institutions.
Senator Moynihan said allowing tax deductions for charitable gifts without imposing penalties was essential in preserving the nation's diverse cultural heritage. As an example, he pointed to the gift to the University of Notre Dame of a pair of elevator doors designed by Louis Sullivan for one of his Chicago skyscrapers.
"This is a heritage we could lose," Senator Moynihan said. "We better wake up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fate of van Gogh's "Portrait of Dr. Gachet," once on loan to the Metropolitan Museum but now privately owned in Japan, is cited as a leading example of how the tax law discouraged gifts to museums. (The Metropolitan Museum of Art)
 
Graphs: "Donating Art" shows the value of donations of art objects to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, in millions, and the number of people whodonated artworks to the museum. (pg. C15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ART; MUSEUMS; TAXATION; GIFTS; TAX DEDUCTIONS; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (94%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); PAINTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); CASE STUDIES (67%); 

PERSON: VAN GOGH, VINCENT (1853-90); MOLOTSKY, IRVIN ; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN) BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



476 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook;
Diminishing Returns in Misery Race

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
High among the reasons given by Palestinian deportees for accepting Israel's offer to let about half of them back into the occupied West Bank and Gaza next month was the deportees' lack not of food or shelter but of coverage by the news media, meaning television.
The hundreds of men stranded in rough country between Israeli and Lebanese army checkpoints aroused initial sympathy from television news, but viewers have not seen much of them in recent months. A Palestinian spokesman attributed the diminished attention to a purposeful blackout by the United States, but it probably has more to do with the competition for the camera's interest in a time of upheaval around the globe and hard going at home, and possibly with a developing viewer resistance to powerful images on the screen. 
 Television dotes on victims, but as things go these days, the Palestinians just could not compete with starving Somalis or battered Bosnians or Americans flooded out by the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers.
For one thing, despite the international displeasure with Israel's resort to expulsion, which television reporters reflected, these men could not simply be classified as innocent victims. Israel said they were supporters of Hamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement, known for attacks on Israeli soldiers and settlements. Palestinians are not among America's most favored refugee groups to begin with, and the pictures of Lebanese being driven from their homes by the recent Israeli shelling were juxtaposed with Israelis being driven to shelters by Palestinian missiles.
Although there were reports of illness among the deportees, they had tents, food and water, along with cellular phones, fax machines and, of course, television sets to keep in touch. No relief agencies solicited contributions. Since they were all male adults, photographers were denied the hungry babies and wounded boys and girls and suffering mothers who figure so strongly in coverage from other troubled lands.
But something else may be at work. Television news is by nature a sort of show, and producers have been known to play on emotions. But as dramatists know, audiences can take only so much of misery, however dramatic.
Pictures of the atrocities in Bosnia have been shown for months now on all the networks without a noticeable rise in the nation's demand for intervention. With the recession clinging like a chronic ailment, many Americans may simply be too caught up in troubles of their own to spare much more than passing sympathy for others, particularly when America's leaders have not been encouraging cries for action.
And perhaps too, viewers may be becoming a touch skeptical of the familiar images. The proclaimed military victories from Panama to the Persian Gulf, orchestrated for television by the Pentagon, have left an unsatisfying aftertaste. The acclaimed humanitarian effort in Somalia has bogged down into a campaign against thugs, and Americans have been killed.
Can it be that television, which has so often drawn sympathy for far-away peoples from soft-hearted audiences, has run into a wall of self-concern? Viewers may be asking themselves: Why so much attention to an African ganglord when gun-happy youths are shooting up our own neighborhoods? How much is the Somali effort costing while taxes are rising and services are on hold? Why get involved in a messy tragedy in Bosnia that could cost American blood and treasure with no certain benefit to the United States?
Those, surely, are the sorts of questions that people in a democracy are supposed to ask. Granted, callousness to distant miseries may not be an admirable trait, but there is something to be said for refusing to let pictures on the tube drive policy. A tough mind has always gone well with a soft heart, and never more so than in the television age.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); LEBANON (94%); SOMALIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%); 

COMPANY: HAMAS (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; LEBANON; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); LEBANON (94%); SOMALIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TELEVISION; PALESTINIANS; DEPORTATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS DEPORTATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HAMAS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); STARVATION (77%); ARMIES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); CHILDREN (74%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); REFUGEES (71%); WRITERS (66%); THEATER & DRAMA (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); RELIGION (51%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



477 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Home Desk

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: FIELD TEST;
A 2-Pound Gym (Sweat Optional)

BYLINE: By BARBARA LLOYD

 BODY:
A HOME exercise "gym" these days can fit into an overnight case and have the versatility of a weight machine many times its size. The jury is still out on whether these systems, which use stretch cords for resistance, build strength to the same degree as free weights or weight machines. The home exercisers are portable, of course, and cost hundreds or even thousands of dollars less than machines, but do they do the job?
One company, Lifeline International of Madison, Wis., says its apparatus works as well as weights. It began producing its stretch-cord apparatus in 1977. Through the years, its product has been revamped into a sophisticated, durable exercise tool. 
 WHAT'S IN THE BAG? The Lifeline Gym comes with a tote bag and weighs two pounds. It includes a 27-inch lifting bar that separates into two halves for easier storage and handling, a webbed jogging belt, a webbed door attachment, a safety catch and a six-foot stretch cord with plastic stirrups for hands or feet. The stretch cord comes in 10 strength levels, R-1 through R-10, ranging from about 3 pounds to about 350 pounds of resistance. A chart helps the buyer determine the cord to pick, depending on physical condition.
WHAT'S OUT OF THE BAG? Setting up the Lifeline Gym can be tricky. The heart of the system is a small circular piece of webbing with a tab that fits into the crack between a door and its frame. It takes a bit of finagling to maneuver the hand-sized loop into place. Then you have to close the door on it quickly so it won't slip out of place. When it's in there securely, the webbing acts as an anchor for the stretch cord and lifting bar.
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH IT? The maneuvers of body building -- lateral raises, shoulder presses, lunges, side kicks, hamstring extensions, pulldowns and curls -- are part of the fitness routine suggested in Lifeline's instruction manual. For example, for a lateral pulldown stretch, secure the tab near the top of the door frame. Then, with the door securely closed, grip the stirrups with palms down in front of the body; pull both stirrups down with a smooth, steady motion; then release slowly.
HOW DOES IT WORK? Bobby Hinds, a former boxing coach who developed the Lifeline Gym, contends that stretch cables allow for a wider range of motion that develops muscles more fully than other exercise gear. You can pull a cord up or down, in or out -- even around in circles -- without letting up on the resistance. The farther you stretch the cord, the harder it gets.
"Resistance is resistance," Mr. Hinds said. "It doesn't matter where it comes from. But with weights it is constant; with cables, it is progressive."
WHAT WORKS BETTER? It helps to have an exercise system that doesn't look formidable. The Lifeline Gym is so easy to use that you need only a door and 10 square feet of floor space.
Stretch cords allow the user to target small groups of muscles at a time and add tension slowly. Fred Zamberletti, a physical therapist for the Minnesota Vikings football team, said recently that he uses the Lifeline Gym to rehabilitate injured players. "They're good for the general population that wants to tone their muscles," Mr. Zamberletti said. "It provides resistance that is safe."
ANY DRAWBACKS? Dr. Neil Gordon, director of exercise physiology at the Cooper Institute for Aerobics Research in Dallas, has studied elderly people who use stretch bands for exercise (though not the Lifeline Gym). He said: "My impression is that generally rubberized bands are effective and useful and that there may be a role for them, but that generally they're unlikely to be as effective as weight-training equipment."
Mike Duchaj, an athletic trainer at Maine South High School in Park Ridge, Ill., uses the Lifeline Gym for rehabilitation, but switches to free weights and machines for general strength building. The free weights teach balance, which you can't get with a stretch cord, he said.
"I can do any exercise with the Lifeline that you can do with free weights or exercise machines," Mr. Duchaj said. "But there are certain benefits with each type. If it comes down to an economic decision, then it really isn't a choice. It would be the Lifeline."
WHAT'S THE PRICE? About $60. It's a good idea to buy an extra stretch cord (about $10) a notch lower in tension than the one the chart prescribed for you. That way, on a bad day you can still feel strong. Orders can be placed by calling (800) 553-6633.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Lifeline Gym weighs two pounds and includes lifting bar, jogging belt and stretch cord with stirrups.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (57%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: LIFELINE INTERNATIONAL

ORGANIZATION: LIFELINE INTERNATIONAL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); WISCONSIN, USA (57%); MADISON, WI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: EXERCISE WEIGHTLIFTING (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); 

PERSON: LLOYD, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



478 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Yen's Rise Is Pressing Japan To Deregulate the Economy

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Thursday, Aug. 19

 BODY:
Japanese officials said today that they would prepare plans to deregulate Japan's economy so that the benefits of the stronger yen could be passed on to the nation's hard-pressed consumers and businesses in the form of lower prices.
The statements, lacking in detail, followed an emergency meeting of Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa and his economic ministers that was held this morning to discuss how to contend with the rising yen. 
 On the currency markets, there was little reaction to the news of the meeting. In late afternoon trading here, the dollar was trading at 102.00 yen, up from late Wednesday's quote of 101.47. In New York on Wednesday, the dollar rose to 101.63 yen, from 101.02 yen the day before.
Cabinet ministers did not give specifics of what steps would be taken, saying that more details would be hammered out soon. "By the end of September at the latest, we would like to draft a list of concrete targets" for deregulatory steps that would let Japanese consumers and businesses enjoy some benefits of a strong yen, Chief Cabinet Secretary Masayoshi Takemura said.
The ministers seemed very cautious about promising new stimulus measures like increased public works spending, cuts in income taxes or a cut in interest rates. Hirohisa Fujii, the Finance Minister, said such actions were not discussed.
On Wednesday, Yasushi Mieno, the governor of the Bank of Japan, said he had no plans to cut the official discount rate, which stands at a low of 2.5 percent.
The currency markets were relatively calm on Wednesday, as traders awaited word from the special cabinet meeting. The lack of specifics in today's announcement and the apparent reluctance of the Government to undertake a program could have disappointed the market and sent the dollar down below the level of 100 yen.
But the markets, at least initially, seemed willing to wait for more details, some of which may come as early as Monday, when Prime Minister Hosokawa gives his first significant policy speech.
"The meat seems to exist, and they are all giving the benefit of the doubt," said Mineko Sasaki-Smith, senior economist for Morgan Stanley & Company in Tokyo, adding that the announcement was somewhat "disappointing." A trader for a Japanese bank, though, said many traders had not expected a detailed statement to emerge from this morning's meeting.
Many of the actions being contemplated by the Government would be welcome by the United States.
 
 
Impact on Trade Surplus
 The yen's appreciation was generated in part by comments earlier this year by President Clinton and Administration officials that a rising yen might help reduce the trade deficit that the United States has with Japan, remarks that were interpreted by the currency market as a wish for a stronger yen. The trade picture will be sketched out in greater detail in Washington today, when the Commerce Department reports on the merchandise trade deficit for June.
In the long run, a rising yen and a falling dollar will make Japanese exports more expensive and therefore less competitive abroad, while American exports will become cheaper and presumably sell better in Japan.
But the United States may see the benefits much more quickly. While the Administration has not commented on the yen recently, analysts say it is happy to sit back and watch as a clamor arises in Japan for the Government to stimulate the economy, liberalize imports and take other steps to reduce its trade surplus -- steps that the United States has been calling on Japan to do.
One business leader here even called for a concerted effort by Japan to cut exports to the United States.
"This rise of the yen is mainly caused by Japan's large trade surplus with the United States," Hiroshi Saito, the chairman of Nippon Steel and head of the Japan Iron and Steel Federation, said in a statement on Tuesday. "To remedy this situation quickly, we cannot avoid reducing exports to the United States."
A rate of 100 yen to the dollar would result in big losses or sharply reduced profits for many large companies, especially the big exporters of automobiles and electronics. A stronger yen could also prolong Japan's recession and lead to greater unemployment as manufacturers shift production to Southeast Asia and other regions with lower labor costs.
 The Cabinet ministers today seemed to agree that the economy was in serious condition, reversing a stance taken by some Government officials a few months earlier that a recovery was on the way.
The newly elected Government has at least one opportunity, economists say, for counteracting the effects of a strong yen without creating a budget deficit: lower prices for imported products. Because of restrictions on imports like rice, apples and some industrial goods, however, the benefits of a stronger yen have not always been seen in lower prices.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Japan Stocks Drop
 TOKYO, Thursday, Aug. 19 (Reuters) -- After a morning of flat trading, stocks slid back today, as some traders expressed disappointment that the Government failed to make strong deregulatory recommendations. At the close, the Nikkei index of 225 issues was down 85.71 points, or 0.41 percent, at 20,687.47. On Wednesday, the Nikkei declined 68.80 points.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yasushi Mieno, the governor of the Bank of Japan, at a news conference yesterday in Tokyo. (Reuters) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (82%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (82%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (63%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (89%); 

SUBJECT: REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM DEREGULATION (94%); JAPANESE YEN (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); TRENDS (73%); TAX RELIEF (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW; HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



479 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Yields Continue Their Slide

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
With long-term yields plunging to another record low yesterday, John R. Williams, the managing director of global market economics at the Bankers Trust Company, thinks defense when he looks at the bond market rally.
This does not mean that he is being defensive because he expects the rally to end soon. Rather, defense means military budgets and the cuts in them that have been made here and abroad. For Mr. Williams, those cuts are a major reason the economy has slowed here and will continue to be sluggish. That, he said, is the main reason the 30-year bond yield has plunged to new lows. 
 As the market increasingly adopts this psychology of sluggish growth, along with the belief that inflation will remain low, the yield on the 30-year bond could fall further.
 
 
Falling to 6% by Year-End?
 Mr. Williams, who had thought for some time that 6.30 percent was achievable this year, is now considering that the yield may drop to 6 percent by the end of the year and below that in 1994.
In trading yesterday, the yield on the 30-year bond fell to 6.26 percent, its lowest point since the Treasury began to issue 30-year bonds on a regular basis 16 years ago, from 6.31 percent Tuesday. Its price jumped 22/32 of a point.
Shorter-term Treasury issues, from two years to seven years, also rallied a bit, but their yields only fell to levels reached on Monday before rebounding on Tuesday.
Still, the price of the 10-year note managed to rise just enough -- 9/32 of a point -- to push the yield down to 5.67 percent, its lowest this year and the lowest since the spring of 1971. Prices and yields move in opposite directions.
The yield curve -- the differential in yields between shorter and longer term maturities -- narrowed or flattened and continues to be one of the major bets that traders are making. They buy long-term debt, like the 30-year bond, and sell short-term debt, like the two-year note. This bet is another factor contributing to the rally in 30-year bonds. Yesterday, the spread between the yields on the two-year note and the 30-year bond narrowed to 2.31 percentage points. It was 3.12 percentage points on May 3.
Treasury prices rose yesterday on strong buying from foreign investors, traders said, and reports that the Federal Reserve was buying two- , three- and five-year notes as part of its monetary policy operations.
When economic historians look back, Mr. Williams said, they will see that "the single big story is the defense cutbacks."
"The cold war ended," he said. "Cutbacks globally followed and the massive layoffs commensurate with that kept the economy in check for years."
Far from thinking that the economy will pick up in the second half of the year, Mr. Williams said, "it is at least as great a threat that we dip into lower growth rates."
Referring again to military cutbacks, he added, "There is no way the economy is going to get up and out of here in that context."
He suggested that the 1.6 percent growth rate in the second quarter, after adjustment for inflation, could be revised lower if it turns out that June exports are less than expected. The Government is to report the June trade figures today. The consensus forecast for the first revision in the gross domestic product report for the second quarter is an increase to 2.2 percent growth, according to Bloomberg Business News. The revised report is due Aug. 31.
 
Relying on Low Inflation
 Mr. Williams said an important key to further declines in the 30-year bond's yield would be whether investors gained confidence in inflation holding at 3 percent or less. If that is the case, he said, it would be logical to assume a 6 percent rate or less on the long bond because the rule of thumb now is that real interest rates -- interest rates after adjustment for inflation -- are about 3 percent.
But while inflation has been low for several years, convincing investors that it will remain so is difficult. As the two inflation scares earlier this year proved, it is very easy to get the bond market worried about rising prices. A break from the very low inflation reports of the last two months and the slow growth of the first half of the year might shake the market again.
Though Mr. Williams thinks the yield on the bond is moving lower, he predicts that the yield on other maturities, especially those from two years to five years, will remain about where they are now.
The reason is that the Fed is not now expected either to lower interest rates because the economy is weak or to raise interest rates because prices are rising. "With a steady Fed, the short end cannot do a whole lot better," he said.

GRAPHIC: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since May. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT NOTES (87%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); LAYOFFS (78%); YIELD CURVE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); HISTORY (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); MONETARY POLICY (63%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



480 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Perot Book on Trade Pact

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 18

 BODY:
Ross Perot, the former Presidential candidate and one of the most vocal critics of the North American Free Trade Agreement, said today that he would soon release a book saying why he believes that the accord must be defeated.
"Any member of Congress who reads this book cannot, in good conscience, possibly vote for Nafta," the Texas businessman said in a statement. Pat Choate, an economist known for his criticism of foreign lobbyists' influence here, is the co-author. 
 The book, "Save Your Job, Save Our Country: Why NAFTA Must Be Stopped -- Now," is scheduled for release by Labor Day, just as lawmakers are due back from their summer break to begin work on the controversial free-trade pact.
The new book marks a step-up in Mr. Perot's longstanding campaign to defeat Nafta, which would join the economies of the United States, Mexico and Canada into the world's biggest free-trade zone in January.
President Clinton has vowed a strong campaign this autumn on behalf of Nafta, and on Tuesday Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen confirmed reports that William Daley, a Chicago lawyer and bank president who ran the Clinton Presidential campaign in Illinois, will steer the lobbying effort.
Administration officials have said that Clinton could name Mr. Daley, the brother of Chicago's Mayor Richard Daley, as Nafta "czar" as soon as Thursday, charging him with overcoming fears that Nafta will lead to big job losses and increased pollution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (85%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (85%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TREATIES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; BOOKS AND LITERATURE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); US LABOR DAY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



481 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Drops Against Pound And Mark; Gold Prices Rise

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
The dollar tumbled against the British pound and the German mark yesterday as currency traders saw new signs that interest rates in Britain and Germany would not be heading lower soon.
Meanwhile, gold prices rose in quiet trading. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August delivery gained $2.70 an ounce, ending at $374.30. December gold, the most actively traded futures contract, rose $2.60 an ounce, to $377.50. 
 The dollar fell as low as 1.6765 marks, before settling in New York at 1.6805 marks, down from 1.6935 marks on Tuesday.
 The dollar's slide against the mark followed a decision by the Bundesbank to leave a key money market rate unchanged at 6.8 percent. Traders interpreted the decision as a sign that the German central bank was not preparing to cut its discount rate of 6.75 percent in the near future.
In addition, a member of the Bundesbank's council, Wilhelm Gaddum, said western Germany's inflation rate of 4.2 percent was "definitely too high." Bundesbank officials have said they will not cut rates until inflation is under control.
Mr. Gaddum also repeated the Bundesbank's pledge to keep the mark stable.
"The Bundesbank dashed any hope that German rates will come down soon," said Angelo Evangelista, corporate foreign exchange adviser at the Bank of Boston.
The pound also rallied on the prospect that rates would remain stable. The pound took off against the dollar and the mark after the Chief Secretary to the British Treasury, Michael Portillo, said that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Kenneth Clarke, was satisfied with interest rates at current levels.
The pound jumped to $1.5170 in New York late yesterday, from $1.4888 on Tuesday. Last week, the pound slumped to its lowest level since March as investors bet the Bank of England would cut rates to keep the country's economic recovery on track.
The dollar was weak against other European currencies as well. It tumbled to 5.9035 French francs from 5.9570 francs and weakened to 1.4845 Swiss francs from 1.5035 francs.
Stock market investors, however, apparently believe that European interest rates will come down. Stock indexes in Britain and Germany set record highs yesterday, and stocks also rose in France and other major markets. Lower interest rates would help spur Europe's recovery from a long economic recession.
Elsewhere, the dollar rose to its highest level in almost six years against the Canadian dollar. It finished at $1.3223 Canadian, up from $1.3158 Canadian on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); GERMANY (94%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES; GERMANY UNITED KINGDOM (95%); GERMANY (94%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; GOLD; PRICES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES CURRENCIES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BRITISH POUND (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FUTURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



482 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Dow Above 3,600 in Wide Rally for Stocks

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Falling interest rates, rallying stock markets in Europe and strengthening investor interest in drug and consumer-product issues combined to lift American stock indexes to record highs yesterday.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed above the 3,600-point level for the first time, gaining 17.88 points, to 3,604.86. 
 Volume was heavy, with 312.9 million shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange, up from 261.3 million on Tuesday. Gaining issues outpaced losing stocks, 1,263 to 772.
 
Follows Europe's Advance
 Other market indexes that hit new highs were the New York Stock Exchange composite, up 1.60 points, to 252.87; the Nasdaq composite of over-the-counter issues, up 3.82, to 734.83, and the American Stock Exchange composite, up 3.97, to 446.63.
Analysts said stocks were helped by strength in the European markets, where investors who expect lower interest rates pushed stock indexes in Britain and Germany to all-time highs. They also pointed to the impact of price gains in the market for United States Treasury securities, in which the yield on the 30-year bond fell to an all-time low of 6.26 percent, and renewed investor interest in pharmaceuticals and consumer-products issues, which continued a rally begun on Tuesday.
"Many of the nondurable-goods companies, which have been beaten up over the last 18 months -- drugs, package foods and tobaccos -- have cheapened," said William E. Dodge, chief investment strategist for Dean Witter Reynolds. "As a result, you can expect that short-term rallies will also move the market higher."
He added that the Dow's climb past 3,600 involved a combination of very supportive interest rates and higher corporate profits.
 
Boon for Drug Makers
 "The profit improvement has been driven by higher levels of productivity and restructuring," Mr. Dodge said, "and now major layoffs in the industrial and manufacturing sector should be behind us. We are in a multiyear business recovery that still has a long way to go."
Traders said the fact that President Clinton did not mention cutting drug prices in his speech outlining his health care plan on Monday helped spur drug stocks on Tuesday and yesterday.
Earlier expectations that the Administration would impose price controls on drugs had crushed the health-care sector, which has created a buying opportunity, the traders said.
Merck was among the most active issues on the New York Stock Exchange, rising 1 5/8, to 32 1/2. Glaxo was up 1 1/8, to 17 7/8; Bristol-Myers Squibb jumped 1 7/8, to 56 1/2; Johnson & Johnson 1 1/2, to 40; Pfizer 2 3/4, to 63 1/4; SmithKline 1 7/8, to 35 1/4, and Eli Lilly, 2 1/4, to 47 7/8.
In other trading, U.S. Filter, which was rated "attractive" by the Paine Webber analyst David Manlowe in his initial coverage of the company, rose 2 3/8, to 21 7/8.
Applied Materials gained 3 3/8 in active trading, to 73 7/8. The semiconductor company said its third-quarter earnings were 68 cents a share, more than twice those of the similar period a year ago.
 
Job Cuts Spur Gains
 Air Products and Chemicals' plans for a 10 percent reduction in its work force as part of a restructuring to bolster profits lifted its shares 2 3/8, to 44 3/4. In similar move, Eastman Kodak announced intentions to reduce its work force by 10,000 by the end of 1995. The stock rose as much as 5/8, before closing at 60 3/8, up 1/8.
General Nutrition was up 1 3/8, to 43 3/8, after the vitamin and food supplements retailer's board authorized a 2-for-1 split.
Silicon Valley Group declined 1 3/4, to 11 1/8, after the semiconductor company lost a bid for a Motorola contract worth as much as $25 million.
Mr. Coffee rose 1, to 8 3/4, after it was added to Oppenheimer's recommended list.

GRAPHIC: Tables: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. Another table lists "milestones of the Dow Jones industrial average." (Source: Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (60%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); BMY (NYSE) (58%); GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%); LLY (SWX) (55%); LLY (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); PFIZER INC (58%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (58%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); ELI LILLY & CO (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (92%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (92%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; PRICES; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE COMPOSITE INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; OVER-THE-COUNTER TRADING; AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE MARKET VALUE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (94%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BONDS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); DRUG PRICES (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); HEALTH CARE (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



483 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The Justice Department is Trying to Spread the Antitrust Blanket.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
CONSPIRACIES to restrain trade are illegal. So when, say, a tractor maker is caught leaning on retailers to keep the price of a new model above $30,000 or frowning on one dealer who tries to take away business from another, it must be in trouble. Right?
Not necessarily. Economists have never worked up much enthusiasm for untangling "vertical" restraints between producers and distributors, as opposed to "horizontal" restraints among sellers in the same market. And in the Reagan and Bush years, that ambivalence became official policy. 
 But now Anne Bingaman, the new Assistant Attorney General for antitrust, has served notice that activism is back. In a speech last week to the American Bar Association, she rescinded the Justice Department's 1985 live-and-let-live guidelines on vertical restraints, burying a policy that had infuriated Congressional liberals. The big question -- one likely to keep antitrust lawyers rolling in BMW's for years to come -- is how much bite lies behind Ms. Bingaman's bark.
The century-old antitrust laws are remarkably vague (or, if you prefer, admirably flexible) about what constitutes restraint of trade. Almost everyone agrees that when sellers of competing products gang up on buyers, the result is higher prices and slower innovation. But there is no equivalent received wisdom about restraints along the vertical chain running from producer to consumer.
Robert H. Bork, Solicitor General in the Nixon Administration, argues that it is absurd to make contractual constraints on retailers illegal since it is perfectly legal for a manufacturer to accomplish the same ends by distributing its own products. Why, for example, should it be a crime for Compaq Computer to insist that independent dealers sell a laptop for at least $3,000 when Compaq can demand $3,000 on direct mail-order sales?
Charles Rule, Ms. Bingaman's counterpart in the second Reagan Administration, does not go quite this far but does believe that vertical restraints deserve every benefit of a legal doubt. Free markets are not perfect, he acknowledges. But to second-guess marketing arrangements where there is no apparent conflict between producers and consumers is to imply that government knows better than business.
Manufacturers, he argues, have no interest in enriching dealers at the expense of consumers. If they demand minimum retail prices, they are probably trying to weed out "free riders" -- discounters who leave the costly tasks of demonstrating and servicing products to high-price dealers.
The Supreme Court, notes Lawrence White of New York University's Stern School of Business, has ruled that overt resale price maintenance for any reason violates the Sherman Antitrust Act. But the Justice Department may still decide which vertical price-fixing arrangements to challenge, and there is no comparably clear legal doctrine about which nonprice arrangements are illegal. Accordingly, the Reagan and Bush Administrations left all vertical restraint cases to the Federal Trade Commission and the states.
But conservatives may not have the last intellectual word on the subject. Until the 1980's, points out Robert Pitofsky, a former commissioner of the F.T.C. who now teaches law at Georgetown University, it was generally assumed that vertical restraints were forced on manufacturers by dealers -- not the other way around.
Department stores selling a heavily advertised brand of cosmetics might, for example, insist that interlopers be prevented from selling at a discount. Thus resale price maintenance and other vertical restraints, Mr. Pitofsky suggests, are often the back door to old-fashioned horizontal price-fixing by distributors.
A more radical view (if not policy prescription) comes from F. M. Scherer at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. America's product distribution system is the wonder of the world, he points out -- a vivid contrast to the inefficient system in Japan. If vertical restraints are benign, he asks, why does the most efficient system have so few of them and the least efficient so many?
The fact that Ms. Bingaman, formerly an antitrust lawyer in private practice, looks less kindly on vertical restraints than her recent predecessors does not guarantee that big policy changes are in the works. For one thing, her senior advisers -- notably Robert Litan of the Brookings Institution -- come from an academic tradition that is skeptical about the benefits of expanding the reach of antitrust law. For another, the courts seem inclined to view vertical arrangements with sympathy. Companies that are well counseled, notes Mr. Rule, the former Reagan antitrust enforcer, can now do just about anything they want short of dictating minimum prices.
Indeed, some observers are wondering if Ms. Bingaman's assault on vertical restraints is more political than ideological. She faces a variety of controversial issues -- not least the new alliances in the computer and telecommunications industries. And when she is mustering support for what will inevitably be controversial positions, it will not hurt to have proved her good will to liberals.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (95%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PRICE FIXING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); CARTELS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); LIBERALISM (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (68%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (62%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; BINGAMAN, ANNE K (ASST ATTY GEN) RONALD REAGAN (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



484 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Father of 12 Shot to Death Near Home In Brooklyn

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
A father of 12 who was returning home from work as a dishwasher at an expensive French restaurant was shot and killed in a robbery yesterday, less than a block from his front door in Brownsville, Brooklyn, the police said.
Watching from a window of the first-floor apartment for his father's nightly return minutes after midnight, one of the man's eight sons saw his father clutching his chest, then collapse on the sidewalk. 
 It was a simple crime, nothing out of the ordinary in New York City. But now the family of a onetime farmer from the Dominican Republic, who came to the United States nine years ago in search of the proverbial better life, is left bereft and wondering how it will support itself.
The father, Jose Duran, 49, of 308 Sutter Avenue in the Brownsville Houses, had worked six days a week, every week, for eight years, never taking a vacation, to support his family.
 
'Such a Good Person'
 "It's a nightmare," Mr. Duran's eldest child, Josephine, 22, said yesterday while sitting on the arm of a chair in her living room, rocking her 16-month-old brother, Elvin, in her arms.
"Why him? He was such a good person," Miss Duran said. "He didn't do anything bad to anybody."
"Dios mio," Miss Duran said -- "My God," in Spanish.
A police spokesman, Detective Joseph McConville, said Mr. Duran was shot to death on the southeast corner of Sutter Avenue and Osborn Street. The shooting occurred as he was returning home from work at Le Perigord, a restaurant on Manhattan's East Side.
"It appears to be a robbery; he had no wallet on him," Detective McConville said. Police responded to an anonymous call over 911 and, after finding Mr. Duran on the street, took him to Brookdale Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.
Detective Steven Feely of the 73d Precinct said it appeared that a man "just walked up behind him and reached into his back pocket to take out his wallet."
"It looks like the victim turned around and the perpetrator just shot him in the chest -- one shot from a .25 automatic," Detective Feely said. The killer apparently got little. Mr. Duran had $80 in his pocket when the police found him.
"It's so sad," said Miss Duran. "We just moved here from Williamsburg. We didn't know how bad it was. We came in winter to check. Nobody was on the street. It was so nice. But in summer, a lot of crime."
Since realizing how much crime plagues the neighborhood, Miss Duran said, "my mother looks out the window when she knows he is coming; most of the kids look, too."
Mr. Duran's son, Narcisso, was at the window last night. "I saw when he fell down," Narcisso said. "He was walking like this," the boy added, clutching his hands to his chest. "Then he fell down." The boy did not see the gunman.
Mr. Duran came to the United States in 1984, followed five years later by his wife, Enedina, 43. "Now I don't know why we came," Miss Duran said. "The reason was economic, looking for a better life."
Miss Duran, a student at La Guardia Community College, where she is studying microcomputer systems, said several of her brothers work part-time to help support the family. Now, she said, "I think I'm going to have to leave school and start working."
 
Prayer in Spanish
 "Dios mio!" Miss Duran said again, tears welling in her eyes.
At that moment, Mr. Duran's cousin, Julia Collado, placed her hands on the young woman's head and prayed in Spanish, "God, give this family the strength to accept this tragedy."
Regaining her composure, Miss Duran said, "We used to live in a two-bedroom apartment and we went crazy looking for a bigger apartment." The new apartment has five bedrooms and two baths.
Marie Therese Briguet, owner of the Le Perigord, said: "He was the best employee; always on time. We didn't have to go behind him to say do this, do that. Everything was perfect."
Mrs. Briquet said Mr. Duran "was a very good father. You cannot find a better, better person than Jose. It should not happen to him."
Tuesday was Mr. Duran's last night of work before his first vacation in eight years.
"I saved a little money so that I could take him and some of the kids to the zoo, the beach, and the aquarium," his daughter said. "He never went anywhere, except to work and to church."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Why him? He was such a good person," said Jose Duran's eldest child, Josephine, 22. She held her 16-month-old brother, Elvin, as she mourned the killing of her father early yesterday in a robbery. (Steve Berman for The New York Times); Jose Duran holding one of his 12 children in a family photograph.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (72%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS SHOOTINGS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS; DURAN, JOSE

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



485 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Several big companies announced an alliance to stimulate the market for recycled paper. Prudential Insurance, Johnson & Johnson, Time Warner, McDonald's, Nationsbank and others will work with the Environmental Defense Fund to study ways to use more recycled paper in their products and printed materials to help reduce the burden on solid-waste landfills. [Page A1.]
Lockheed's Information Management unit received special favors from the Dinkins administration when it sought a $150 million city contract to take over many operations of the Parking Violations Bureau, according to investigators. [A1.] 
 Kodak will eliminate 10,000 jobs by the end of 1995. But the plan was part of an earlier restructuring by Kay R. Whitmore, who was ousted as chief executive earlier in the month, and may be a precursor to more drastic cuts to come. [D1.]
Northwest Airlines' co-chairmen, Alfred A. Checchi and Gary L. Wilson, defended their stewardship in the face of criticism for having saddled the airline with huge debt payments that have since been reworked by creditors to avert a bankruptcy. [D1.]
The choice of Boeing as the prime space station contractor will bring more prestige than jobs and revenues. The impact of the move by NASA on McDonnell Douglas, Rockwell and Grumman, which will play lesser roles, is uncertain. [D4.]
Capital Cities/ABC and Hearst reached an agreement with Time Warner to keep their broadcast stations on Time Warner's cable systems and help them start an sports channel. [D18.]
Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield named a Cigna managed-care executive, G. Robert O'Brien, as its chief executive, underscoring its intention to become a leader in managed care. [B8.]
Ipalco again increased its offer for PSI Resources, intensifying its bidding war with Cincinnati Gas and Electric. [D4.]
Fieldcrest Cannon will issue $70 million in preferred stock and increase borrowing to finance its purchase of Amoskeag. [D4.]
 
Markets
European stock markets soared to new highs with investors anticipating that interest rates are about to begin a steady decline, which would help speed economic recovery. [D1.]
The Dow industrials closed above the 3,600-point level for the first time, gaining 17.88 points, to 3,604.86, helped by falling interest rates, rallies in Europe and drug and consumer issues [D6.]
Interest rates fell, with the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond sinking to 6.26 percent, its lowest point in 16 years. [D14.]
The dollar tumbled against the pound and mark but gained against the yen. Gold rose in quiet trading. [D17.]
Crude oil prices fell in response to a report that showed a smaller-than-expected drop in gasoline supplies. [D17.]
 
International
Third world countries are buying American goods at a rapid pace, giving the U.S. economy an unexpected lift. Such imports are up almost one-third over the past two years, as industrialization spreads in Asia and Latin America. [A1.]
The strengthening yen is putting pressure on the Japanese Government to stimulate its economy and liberalize imports so some the benefits can be passed on to the nation's hard-pressed consumers and businesses. [D1.]
 
Today's Columns
The Justice Department says it will widen antitrust law enforcement, but some are wondering how much bite lies behind that bark. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
BTR Realty's planned conversion from a traditional corporation to a real estate investment trust has attracted the attention of arbitragers, who have bid up its stock. Market Place. [D6.]
Chrysler is redoubling its marketing efforts to bolster the brand images of its five lines of cars, trucks and sport-utility vehicles. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D18.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (91%); CI (NYSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); DUK (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (91%); EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (66%); CIGNA CORP (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); BOEING CO (55%); ABC INC (54%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (53%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (84%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (84%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (83%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); LANDFILLS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (76%); BONDS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); HOUSEHOLD LINEN MILLS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); AIRLINES (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); GASOLINE (67%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (67%); PREFERRED STOCK (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SPACE STATIONS (66%); SPACECRAFT (66%); SPACE EXPLORATION (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (65%); IMPORT TRADE (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (60%); PARKING OFFENSES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



486 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Vote Extends Penny Increase in Suffolk County Sales Tax

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, L.I., Aug. 18

 BODY:
By a one-vote margin, the Suffolk County Legislature has extended a penny increase in the county sales tax for two years.
The extra penny tax, which was to have expired in December, assures the county an estimated $248 million in extra sales-tax revenue during the two years and averts a budget crisis. The total sales tax in Suffolk is 8.5 percent. 
 Ten of the 18 legislators voted for the extension, which was authorized by the State Legislature in July. The approval came after the holder of the decisive 10th vote, Joseph Rizzo, a Republican from Islip Terrace, compelled county lawyers to produce a completed agreement under which the county would abandon efforts to buy Robins Island, which is said to be the largest undeveloped island on the East Coast.
Mr. Rizzo, who opposes the island purchase and who had been critical of delays in finishing the proposed agreement, then voted for the sales-tax extension.
 
Conservation of Island
 The agreement on Robins Island, which must undergo an environmental review and be acted on by the county legislature, would allow a California developer, the Robis Corporation, to buy the island from its German owners for $12 million. The new owners would be allowed to build a maximum of 22 houses on one-and-a half acre lots on 33 acres of the island. More than 90 percent of the land would be placed under a conservation easement.
"I don't care how the vote goes, I wanted to see the agreement on paper," Mr. Rizzo said. "Does the county want 92.5 percent of the island for free, or do they want to pay $20 million for the whole thing?" He said the $20 million figure included interest on the $9.2 million the county agreed to pay for the island in 1989.
The vote extending the sales tax spared the Suffolk County Executive, Robert J. Gaffney, the difficulty of preparing a 1994 county budget without the one percent in sales-tax revenues. He must submit the proposed budget to the legislators next month.
The 8.5 percent county sales tax, of which the county share is 4.25 percent, is equaled in New York only by Nassau County and stands among the highest rates in the nation. The Suffolk officials sought approval for the extra percent during a period of financial crisis that began three years ago, but now appears to have abated.
Alice A. Amrhein, deputy Suffolk County executive for finance, said county property taxes would have doubled had the extension been denied. "Either we would have to double the taxes or stop county government," she said. The estimated $124 million in revenue from the 1 percent, she said, barely kept pace with the $126 million the county pays for its local share of Medicaid expenses.
The vote on the sales-tax extension followed party lines, with all but one member of the Republican and Conservative majority voting in favor. Democratic legislators voted no, saying that Mr. Gaffney failed to make cuts in county spending that would have negated the need for much or all of the 1 percent in revenues.
Mr. Rizzo said he acted to "hold Robins Island hostage" in part because Mr. Gaffney had never made clear whether he favored abandoning county purchase of the island, and appeared to be vacillating.
Mr. Gaffney left yesterday for a trip to Israel paid for by the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York, his aides said. Ms. Amrhein said Mr. Gaffney would sign the Robins Island settlement if it is approved by the Legislature.
William J. Burke, the chief deputy county attorney, said today that there was "no linkage" between completion of the agreement and Mr. Rizzo's vote on the sales-tax extension. He said the agreement had been under discussion among the parties for several months. If approved, it would end a welter of litigation that has grown up around the island.
Paul Sabatino, counsel to the county legislature, said he expected a vote on the pact within three months. The proposed housing project would need the approval of the Town of Southold, where the island is located. Town officials said they were not bound by a county settlement.
Support for the county purchase has been strong, and proponents said they were ready to fight a settlement that would allow houses to be built.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SALES TAX SALES TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); COUNTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (74%); MEDICAID (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



487 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Housing Progress Demanded;
Child of the Public Projects, She Now Runs Them

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:
One of the first things that Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero did after she was pressed into service as head of the nation's largest public housing agency last year was to take a series of unannounced trips around her realm. What she found, she says, was a far cry from the public housing of her childhood.
Mrs. Hernandez-Pinero, who in the 1960's lived with her family in the Twin Parks West project in the Bronx, saw a succession of crumbling walls, broken appliances, leaking pipes, stairwells without lights and tenants who complained that crime had made them prisoners of those same dreary homes. Those sights, she says now, defined her sense of what she had to do. 
 "If you put New York public housing up against any large housing agency in the country, we come up on top," she said in a recent interview. "But that is not saying much. I don't want to settle for that. I want to use as the standard public housing that I grew up with. I want public housing to be a place where people can have safe, comfortable housing again."
Nearly 18 months after she moved into the chairwoman's office at 250 Broadway, across the street from City Hall, Mrs. Hernandez-Pinero has taken strong steps to assert control over the troubled agency that is landlord to 1 in 12 New Yorkers.
 
Standing Up to City Hall and Management
 Early on, she stood toe to toe with City Hall, insisting that fewer homeless families be sent to public housing and getting the city to pay for support services for the homeless families it did take in. She has overhauled the authority's top management, introduced a strict method to screen out potentially disruptive tenants and begun a $139 million plan to reduce crime throughout the system.
But while her policies have won praise from allies in city government, colleagues and some public housing residents, they raise a series of questions whose answers will go a long way toward determining whether she can refurbish the upwardly mobile dream of the social architects who created public housing for the city's working classes 60 years ago:
Will she be able to win the support of longtime employees still bristling over her managerial housecleaning? Does the security plan have the money or the staff to constitute a truly hard line against crime? And how much can a municipal agency accomplish in the face of the social contractions that have undermined the quality of life in the projects in the last 10 to 15 years: homelessness, increased drug use, recession and cuts in Federal spending?
"I cannot undo in a few years what has happened in the past decade," she responded. "But I know public housing in this city can be better than it is now."
 
Mayor Is Ally and and Father Figure
 Mrs. Hernandez-Pinero did not seek the job she now has. Laura D. Blackburne was forced to step down as chairwoman of the Housing Authority in February 1992 when questions were raised about her spending of Housing Authority money on office furnishings and trips.
When the Mayor called, Mrs. Hernandez-Pinero had been seeking to move from City Hall, where she was Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, to a less demanding city job to spend more time with her two sons.
"City Hall is a 24-hour-a-day, seven-days-a-week responsibility," she said. "After more than a year and a half as Deputy Mayor I was looking to move on. But my husband helped convince me that if the Mayor needed me, I could not turn him down."
A close ally and personal friend of the Mayor, she speaks of him as a father figure who has encouraged her and trusted her abilities. From 1986 until 1988, Mrs. Hernandez-Pinero served as Mr. Dinkins's Deputy Manhattan Borough President.
Mrs. Hernandez-Pinero was born in the Bronx in 1953 to parents from Puerto Rico. Her father worked mostly as a dishwasher and building superintendent and her mother as a public school assistant. After graduating from law school, Mrs. Hernandez-Pinero worked with legal services and community groups in Brooklyn and in the Bronx in housing development.
 
Grit Masked by Warmth
 Friends, colleagues and staff members say her warmth and her show of respect for everyone she meets mask her grit and determination. She has been underestimated, they say, by those who take her form of political savvy, which leans toward patient consensus-building, as a sign of malleability.
She is credited, for example, with helping to revive stalled budget discussions in 1991 when strained relations between the Mayor and the City Council put the city on the brink of financial crisis.
Scott Rosenberg, director of litigation for the Legal Aid Society, gave her high marks for the quick settling of the public housing racial steering suit that she inherited.
He also said that since Mrs. Hernandez-Pinero took over, the relationship improved between lawyers in his office, who often represent public housing tenants in their battles against the Housing Authority, and the legal department in the agency.
 
Style Praised by Opponents
 Even those who oppose her tactics cannot resist couching criticism in words of praise for her personal style.
After criticizing some of Mrs. Hernandez-Pinero's new policies, Carl Haynes, who replaced Barry Feinstein in April as president of Local 237 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the union for many Housing Authority employees, added, "I must say about her, that a nicer person you'll never meet."
Mrs. Hernandez-Pinero says with some pride: "I've also been called a steamroller. I know I have critics, but I don't believe that I have any enemies."
Her changes will require, in part, the support of the 16,000 public housing employees. Housing Authority workers, whose average tenure is 18 years, have seen three leaders since 1986.
 
Unpopular Housecleaning
 Some say she is being hobbled by residual resentment among Housing Authority staff members over her housecleaning in her first weeks on the job. She canceled credit cards, froze hirings and promotions and dismissed or reassigned 43 of the top 55 managers.
Mr. Haynes of the teamsters' union complains of paralysis out in the field. His members resent in particular, he said, her choosing her top managers from outside the Housing Authority.
"Sally has this idea that she has to do a national hunt for top management," he said. "She is doing this at a place where people are used to seeing promotions from within."
Mr. Haynes said that to her credit, Mrs. Hernandez-Pinero had added 181 new maintenance workers. His members, Mr. Haynes said, also support her tenant-screening plan.
When asked about low morale, Mrs. Hernandez-Pinero said she believed she was gaining the staff's loyalty.
"I understand how difficult it has been for many of the people who work here," said Mrs. Hernandez-Pinero, who still visits at least one housing complex a week. "After having the same top managers for 15 years they have seen a quick succession of new bosses, each with another way of doing things.
"But just because things were done a certain way does not mean that we should not be taking steps to make the Housing Authority better."
There is skepticism, too, about how much of an impression will be made by the $139 million safety improvement plan. It was unveiled by the Housing Authority in March in a splashy ceremony at the Red Hook Houses in Brooklyn, where an elementary school principal, Patrick Daly, was killed in December while looking for a student.
 
Security May Mark Tenure
 Known within the Housing Authority as the security pact, the plan is an array of measures intended to reduce crime in all housing projects. For better or for worse, it may stand as the signature of her tenure as head of the Housing Authority.
The plan includes increased housing police officers on the beat, more social services for tenants and such safety measures as new locks and intercom systems. Critics of the program say that it is a Band-Aid approach and does not go far enough.
Mr. Rosenberg of the Legal Aid Society said he did not hold much hope that the security pact would improve safety in public housing.
"This tinkering with regulation and policies," Mr. Rosenberg said, "will not have a meaningful impact on safety. You need significant funds for training of personnel who are respected in the community and you need a lot more police officers than the security pact provides. We are not getting that yet as far as I can see."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In her 18 months as head of the New York City Housing Authority, Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero has found the state of the vast domain under her control to be far from that of the public housing of her childhood in the 1960's. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "PROFILE: Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero"
 
Born: Feb. 12, 1953, Bronx.
Hometown: New York City.
Education: Bronx High School of Science; Wesleyan University, B.A., 1974; New York University Law School, J.D., 1977.
Career: New York State Mortgage Agency, deputy counsel, 1981-1984, general counsel, 1984-1986; Deputy Manhattan Borough President, 1986-1988; Deputy Mayor, 1989-1992, chairwoman of the New York City Housing Authority, 1992-present.
Family: Married May 5, 1985, to Hector Pinero; two sons, ages 6 and 4 years. Lives in Pelham, the Bronx.
Interests: Gardening and spending time with her family.
 
(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING; CRIME AND CRIMINALS PUBLIC HOUSING (93%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); CITIES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FAMILY (89%); MAYORS (87%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G; HERNANDEZ-PINERO, SALLY (CHMN); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



488 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Summer of the Bulls

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Aug. 18

 BODY:
Europe is mired in recession. Its efforts to forge a single currency are in tatters. Unemployment is high and rising. Crucial industries like automobiles and steel are struggling.
But if this is supposed to be a summer of gloom for Europe, nobody bothered to tell the stock markets. Stock market bulls, in fact, are stampeding as if through the streets of Pamplona. 
 Investors here, as well as from the United States, Japan and other parts of the world, seem to be pouring money into stocks in the belief that interest rates across the Continent are about to begin a steady decline, a development that would help speed economic recovery and improve the prospects of European industry.
At the same time, the prospect of lower interest rates is leading many investors to pull their money out of savings accounts and bonds and to seek higher returns in stocks.
 
A Widespread Upswing
 After languishing much of the year, shares in London, Europe's financial capital, have been surging, hitting another all-time high today. In Germany, whose economic problems have been dragging down the rest of the Continent, shares on the Frankfurt stock exchange jumped sharply today to reach their highest level in three years.
Share prices were also up in Paris and in most other European financial centers. In Stockholm, shares rose a startling 2.86 percent to a record level. Market indexes were at or near annual or all-time highs in Denmark, Finland, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands, among other markets.
The surge in Europe also helped stocks in the United States today, where the Dow Jones industrial average closed above the 3,600 level for the first time. [Page D6.]
The theory behind the belief that European interest rates will fall is that the Continent's governments have more freedom now to cut rates since the effective collapse of the European monetary system at the end of July. Under the system, most large European nations were committed to maintaining stable currency values. Because Germany has been keeping its rates high to stave off inflation arising from its reunification, other nations were forced to keep their rates high or see their currencies plummet in value against the German mark.
But when a tidal wave of speculation swamped the French franc last month, it forced the European governments to let their currencies fluctuate more widely in value. With no need to maintain stable exchange rates, there is no longer a requirement for France and other European nations to match Germany's high rates.
"The belief is that we've now got the prospect of significantly lower rates to fuel recovery in Europe," said Mike Young, the director of European investment strategy at Merrill Lynch in London.
Freed from their exchange-rate shackles, European nations are now expected by economists to begin concentrating on bolstering their domestic economies and addressing the daunting problem of unemployment that is afflicting them all. The model is Britain, which was forced out of the Exchange Rate Mechanism in the currency crisis of last September, went on to slash its base lending rate to 6 percent from 10 percent, and is now enjoying the strongest economic growth in Europe along with falling unemployment.
Investors in the European stock markets, looking ahead to next year, now see the same rebound in store for other nations, including Germany and France.
In London, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange index of 100 leading shares closed up 48.6 points, or 1.61 percent, at 3,073.60. In Frankfurt, the DAX index closed at 1,935.72, up 25.55 points, or 1.34 percent. In Paris, the CAC-40 index was up 24.46 points, to 2,160.75, a rise of 1.14 percent.
 
Some Notes of Skepticism
 But some analysts and economists said they had doubts as to whether the market would prove an accurate predictor of economic recovery, and some said investors might be overly sanguine about Europe's prospects for overcoming its economic woes.
"Certainly there's nothing to suggest that the economies are about to leap to life in the way the stock markets are indicating," said Warren Oliver, an economist at S. G. Warburg Securities in London.
"There is still a disparity, or a contrast if you like, between the strength of the recovery that the stock market as a leading indicator would suggest and any other sign of economic rebound on the Continent," Mr. Oliver said. "The best you can say about the Continent is that the recession may be bottoming out."
Germany, for example, is a long way from the recovery that its stock markets are anticipating. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the economic research group financed by the large industrial nations, said today that the outlook for Germany remained gloomy.
In contrast to the German Government, which last week predicted economic growth next year of 1.5 percent in the western part of the country after a 1.5 percent decline this year, the organization predicted growth of just 1 percent next year after a decline of 2.5 percent this year. Unemployment in western Germany, the organization said, would rise to 9.5 percent next year from 7.5 percent in July.
 
French Outlook Is Uncertain
 There is also some question about the assumption that rates will fall quickly and substantially, especially in France, which was seen as the primary beneficiary of the weakening of the monetary system's strictures. Although France has pushed down some of its short-term rates, it has not cut its benchmark lending rates, and a debate continues within the Government over whether to pursue growth and let the franc decline further in value.
Indeed, currency trading today indicated that dealers were not convinced that European rates would fall soon. The dollar's value fell against most European currencies after comments by British and German officials indicating they were content with the current level of interest rates.
None of the caveats, however, seem to have made much of an impression on the stock markets.
Sushil Wadhwani, a European equity strategist at Goldman Sachs International in London, said that if the recovery did not begin as investors hoped, then governments would continue to lower interest rates, as the United States did when confronted with a balky recovery over the last few years. "That would keep the markets happy," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graphs/Table: "London Reaches a Record High . . ." tracks daily closes of the FTSE-100 since the beginning of January; ". . . as European Stock Markets Soar"

 	 	 	 		1993	YESTERDAY'S	CHANGE		LOW	CLOSE*	FROM LOW	Frankfurt Dax 	1,516.50	1,935.72	+27.6%	Paris CAC-40 	1,772.21	2,160.75	+21.9		 	 	 	Milan Index 	992.00	1,362.00	+37.3		 	 	 	Madrid Stock Exchange	215.60	290.46	+34.7		 	 	 	Amsterdam CBS All Shares	198.60	246.70	+24.2		 	 	 	Stockholm Affarsvarlden	879.10	1,339.10	+52.3	
 
*All closed at 1993 highs, except the CAC-40.
 
(Sources: Datastream; Bloomberg Financial Markets; Financial Times)
 
"On Wall Street, Dow Marches Past 3,600" tracks daily closes of the Dow Jones industrial average since the beginning of January. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWEDEN (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); JAPAN (92%); SPAIN (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (55%); 

STATE: NAVARRE, SPAIN (91%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); 

CITY: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (69%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; FRANCE; SWEDEN EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWEDEN (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); JAPAN (92%); SPAIN (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (55%); NAVARRE, SPAIN (91%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (69%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT ; PRICES STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GERMAN MARK (73%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



489 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
Sharp Cutbacks by Kodak
Eastman Kodak will eliminate 10,000 jobs by the end of 1995 in a move that may be a precursor to more drastic cuts to come. Page D1.
 
Stocks Surge in Europe
 European stock markets have soared to new highs, with investors anticipating that interest rates are about to begin a steady decline. Page D1.
 
Judge Grants Girl's Wish
 A Florida judge ruled that Kimberly Mays, who was switched at birth, has no obligation to maintain contact with her biological parents. Page A16.
 
Why U.S. Put Sudan on List
 The Sudan does sponsor terror, Washington says, but there is no clear evidence of a link to reported bomb plots in New York. Page A11.
 
Doubts About Jail Incident
 Westchester's County Executive accused jail guards of staging a hostage-taking that occurred before a planned vote on their raises. Page B1.
 
S.A.T. Scores Rise Again
 For the second straight year, the average scores on the Scholastic Aptitude Test rose, prompting optimism about the nation's schools. Page A16.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: EK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CORRECTIONS WORKERS (88%); LITIGATION (87%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (86%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); JUDGES (70%); BOMBINGS (68%); COUNTIES (67%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (67%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (65%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); HOSTAGE TAKING (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



490 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Third World Economic Gains Give a Lift to U.S. Exporters

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 18

 BODY:
The third world is giving the American economy an unexpected and much-needed lift, by increasing its imports of American goods by almost one-third over the last two years, with another large jump anticipated this year.
American sales to the nonindustrialized world rose to $167 billion last year, up 14 percent over the previous year and largely offsetting weak demand from Europe and Japan, both plagued by economic slumps. Exports to the third world jumped to more than 37 percent of total United States exports last year, from 32 percent in 1990.
 
 
Several Factors Cited
 Administration officials attribute the export boom to several factors. The rapidly industrializing countries of Asia are growing at a phenomenal pace, enabling them to purchase more American metal-cutting machines and Madonna records. Mexico, Argentina and other Latin American countries have recently lowered many tariffs and removed other trade barriers, while the region's growth is picking up after years of stagnation. 
 American exports have also been helped by the drop in the dollar's value since 1985 and the increased competitiveness of American companies.
The Clinton Administration has hailed the trend, using using it as ammunition to argue for trade liberalization -- in particular the North American Free Trade Agreement, which would tie Mexico, Canada and the United States together in a giant free-trade zone. The Administration is also seeking closer political and economic ties with Asia in the hope that these moves will provide an even greater boost from sales to the third world.
To the Administration, the argument is simple: more exports mean more jobs.
"For the first time in a long time, the less developed nations will grow considerably faster than he industrial world over the next decade and their markets are becoming much more open so there is much more opportunity there," Lawrence A. Summers, Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs, said.
"Nafta is an important first step in capitalizing on that opportunity," he said. "It's time we start of thinking of these countries more as an opportunity and less as a problem."
But some economists, especially those who oppose the trade accord, view this export boom as a mixed blessing. They argue that the surge in exports causes some job losses because the purchases often come from companies that move their factories overseas and then import American machinery and components to make them run.
Commerce Department figures show that a large part of the exports are goods to help build industry in the third world: power generators, metal-cutting lathes, computers and telecommunications equipment. Many of these orders come from multinational companies, some of them American that open factories in low-wage nations.
Administration officials, however, argue that such purchases will make these countries even stronger trading partners. "Countries are realizing that to succeed they need to make competitive, high-quality goods and before they can do that, they need to acquire the necessary machinery and raw materials," Walter Bastian, director of the Commerce Department's Office of Latin America, said. "So what you see is huge growth in purchases of capital goods from the United States."
'Much More Open'
 Thanks to factors like these, America's share of the industrial world's exports to the third world grew to 31 percent last year from 29 percent in 1990, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
"Our exports to the developing world are doing real well, especially to the newly industrializing countries of Asia," said David Blond, director of international trade forecasting for DRI/McGraw Hill, a consulting firm. "They're growing very fast and are much more open to our products than the Japanese."
Exports to the newly industrializing countries of Asia -- Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan -- jumped to $48.6 billion, or 11 percent of the $448 billion in exports from the United States last year, up from just 1 percent in 1960.
The Southeast Asian "countries have really been a hotbed for us," said Raymond E. Ross, president of Cincinnati Milacron, a leading producer of industrial machinery. "It's a good emerging market for us and other U.S. manufacturers. We have an advantage over there because people like us and like doing business with Americans, while there is some resentment toward Japan for what it did to them in World War II."
DRI/McGraw-Hill predicts that exports to the less developed world will grow by more than 11 percent a year over the next three years, more than three times the 3.5 percent rate at which exports to the developed world are expected to rise. One reason for this gap is that the less industrialized countries are expected to grow at a 5 percent annual pace over the next few years, while many economists say the industrial world will grow by less than half that.
 
 
Trade Balance
 The surge in exports is expected to improve the United States trade balance with the third world. America's trade deficit with the nonindustrialized world -- which includes Latin America and all but the richest nations in the Middle East, Asia and Africa -- dropped to $24.8 billion last year, from $53.1 billion two years earlier.
The Economic Policy Institute, a union-backed research group that has provided much of the intellectual firepower against the North American Free Trade Agreement, argues that some of this surge in exports will come back and haunt the United States.
Thea Lee, a trade expert at the institute said, "If the boom in U.S. exports to the developing world simply represents a shift in the location of U.S. investment from the U.S. to developing countries, then the boom probably isn't sustainable. These factories will eventually gear up and will start producing goods destined for our markets. Therefore at least some of the improvements in the U.S. trade balance with developing countries may be temporary."
While acknowledging that much of America's exports will help the third world build its industries, economists who favor free trade say that only by making those nations richer will they have the wherewithal to buy more American goods.
 
 
Rising Wages
 "As industries develop in these countries, workers will see their wages rise and they will begin to import more consumer goods from the United States and elsewhere," said Peter Hakim, president of Inter-American Dialogue, a public policy group. "These markets aren't going to be saturated anytime soon for consumer goods."
He said that more than 50 cents of every dollar that Latin American countries earn from exports is used to import capital and consumer goods from the United States.
The debate on whether the export boom is healthy is reminiscent of a 19th-century British controversy in which some industrialists and unions worried that exports of capital goods, like machinery, would undermine that nation's manufacturing prowess by providing the building blocks for other nations' industries. Most economists argue this did not happen.
These economists believe that the free flow of trade and capital goods maximizes economic growth worldwide, although some workers certainly lose their jobs because of increased international competition.
 
 
Export Boon
 According to some economists, putting the free-trade pact into place would be a boon for exports to Mexico. Gary Hufbauer and Jeffrey Schott, economists at the Institute for International Economics, a Washington-based research group, forecast that the agreement would increase Mexico's imports of American goods -- which were $40.6 billion last year -- by $17 billion more over five years than they would have increased without such an accord. They also predict that Mexican exports to the United States would increase by $8 billion, creating a $9 billion swing in favor of the United States.
They said that during the five years, 320,000 new American jobs would be created as a result of the trade agreement and 150,000 jobs lost, resulting in a net gain of 170,000 jobs.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Eager to Buy American" shows amount of exports to poorer countries, and industrial countries, from '86-'92. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (93%); ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; EUROPE; JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; MEXICO; LATIN AMERICA UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (93%); ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EXPORT TRADE (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); MACHINE TOOLS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



491 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: An Alliance of 6 Big Consumers Vows to Use More Recycled Paper

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
By the end of the decade, Prudential insurance policies, Johnson & Johnson Band-Aid boxes and Time Warner's billion copies of magazines a year may all be made of recycled paper, under a project announced yesterday by these and other companies working with the Environmental Defense Fund.
The project, which will start with feasibility studies, is aimed at reducing the burden on landfills and pumping up the anemic market for recycled paper by creating demand for billions of dollars worth of secondhand pulp. 
 The undertaking resembles an effort that the Environmental Defense Fund and the McDonald's Corporation announced in August 1990 to look into packaging disposal in the fast-food business. That led McDonald's to replace its plastic foam hamburger boxes with a less bulky paper wrapper.
 
A Varied Alliance
 McDonald's has also joined the new alliance. The other members are the Nationsbank Corporation, the country's fifth-largest banking company, and Duke University.
Traditionally, environmental groups have relied on lawsuits and influence with regulatory agencies to further their goals. But John Ruston, a solid-waste expert at the Environmental Defense Fund, a leading nonprofit group in the field, said the coalition was formed as a signal to paper companies that if they make environment-friendly paper, the buyers will come. Customers like Prudential, which spends $300 million a year on paper, are hard to ignore.
"The paper industry is the most capital-intensive one in the United States," he said. "They are not going to invest in new technology without the assurance of demand."
Currently, of the 22 million tons of printing and writing paper produced in the nation each year, only about 6 percent comes from paper that has been recycled from trash.
The alliance is forming as the Clinton Administration is preparing an executive order that is expected to direct Federal agencies to buy paper with increasing levels of recycled material. The Federal Government buys 300,000 tons of paper a year. The Clinton order, expected after Labor Day, may also include incentives against buying paper bleached with chlorine and chlorine compounds. Environmental groups have been increasingly critical of the use of chlorine in bleaching wood pulp because of the toxic emissions from the process.
Although the Environmental Defense Fund did not address the chlorine issue today, it did say that its effort would include looking at the way paper is made. The group said it was focusing on paper because paper products make up one-third of all municipal trash.
Mr. Ruston said the companies were selected for their size and diversity.
 
Broad-Based Approach
 "You have financial services with Prudential and Nationsbank, packagers with Johnson & Johnson and McDonald's, and a full-service publisher with Time, including book publishing," Mr. Ruston said. "The real value of the task force is that we are working with actual users of these products. You find what works in a business setting."
Mr. Ruston said the companies, which his group first approached last summer, were the only ones sought out. None declined to participate, he said, "but the courtship for some was longer than others."
The alliance does not include any publishers of newspapers, an industry that uses recycled paper to some extent. . The New York Times Company, for example, uses 12 percent recycled newsprint in The Times and the 31 regional newspapers owned by the company. The company's magazine group, which includes Family Circle and Child magazines, currently uses no recycled paper. But a spokesman for the company said recycled paper was being tested and would be used if it was found to be of acceptable quality and readily available.
Last summer during consideration of a bill that would require newspapers to use paper with 35 percent recycled content by 1995, Congressional aides said that just 6 of the nation's 56 largest newspapers were meeting that standard.
The drawbacks to recycled paper are usually appearance and strength. Recycled paper is often not as bright as virgin paper, because not all the ink is removed in reprocessing, and it is sometimes weaker, causing rolls of paper to break in printing presses.
Given those limitations, the involvement of Time Warner is noteworthy, since its Time Inc. subsidiary requires high-quality paper stock, coated with clay, to produce magazines. Technology, however, is gradually overcoming the problems associated with secondhand paper.
David Refkin, Time Inc.'s director of environmental affairs, said the company already published six of its magazines, including Entertainment Weekly and the Canadian edition of Time, on partly recycled paper.
He said 40,000 of the 250,000 tons of paper the company consumed yearly now has 10 percent wood fiber recovered from trash. "It is only in the last two years that it has become available in quantity," he said.
 
Several Cost Factors
 It is not immediately clear whether buying recycled paper will save the companies in the task force money or add to their costs. That will depend on the availability and price of old paper to be recycled, the costs of de-inking and the economics of the paper mills making the new paper.
But generally, the larger a paper mill, the lower the cost of production. Until now, most recycled paper has been produced at relatively costly small mills. Those costs could drop if efficient large mills add de-inking equipment for recycling.
Paul Brummett, a purchasing manager at Duke University, said the price of some paper with 30 percent recycled content dropped about 20 percent about a year ago, making it comparable to virgin paper. "When the price came down, we switched to recycled," he said.
As it has in previous alliances with corporations, the Environmental Defense Fund said it would not accept financial support from members of the paper task force.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (93%); MCD (NYSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (85%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE; JOHNSON & JOHNSON INC; TIME WARNER CORP; MCDONALD'S CORP; NATIONSBANK; DUKE UNIVERSITY ; ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%); MCDONALD'S CORP (85%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (93%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (93%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (83%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE; JOHNSON & JOHNSON INC; TIME WARNER CORP; MCDONALD'S CORP; NATIONSBANK; DUKE UNIVERSITY ; ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (93%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (93%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (83%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; PAPER AND PULP; LANDFILL ; CONTAINERS AND PACKAGING; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (94%); FAST FOOD (91%); PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); BLEACHING AGENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); CHLORINE (85%); PUBLISHING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); LANDFILLS (77%); PAPER MFG (77%); PULP INDUSTRY (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (72%); EMISSIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); US LABOR DAY (64%); BOOK PUBLISHING (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (53%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (82%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



492 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 67 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
BOWATER TO REDUCE OPERATIONS AT MAINE PLANT

BYLINE: Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Citing the need to cut costs in the midst of a paper industry slump, Bowater Inc. said it would close certain paper-making operations at its mill in Millinocket, Me., putting 200 people out of work. The company, based in Greenville, S.C., said it would take a $10 million pretax charge in the third quarter to cover the cost of the closings. The layoffs will take place over the next 12 months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RFP (TSX) (93%); RFP (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322122 NEWSPRINT MILLS (93%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS (93%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (93%); SIC2421 SAWMILLS & PLANING MILLS, GENERAL (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (68%); 

CITY: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: BOWATER INC RESOLUTE FOREST PRODUCTS INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOWATER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (68%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR) PAPER MFG (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MILLS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (86%); CLOSINGS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



493 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Experimental Rocket Blasts Off, Then Makes a Vertical Landing

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE, N.M., Aug. 18

 BODY:
A single-stage reusable rocket that backers hope will revolutionize the United States space effort successfully completed its maiden voyage today, officials said.
The Delta Clipper-Experimental rocket, or DC-X, blasted off at 4:43 P.M. mountain time, flew to an altitude of 150 feet, then stopped, hovered and moved to the side about 350 feet. Still under power, it then descended and touched down on its landing gear, said Tom Williams, director of communications for McDonnell Douglas, in a phone interview. The flight lasted about a minute. 
 It was the first time a spacecraft had ever landed vertically on Earth.
It was "really wild, sexy stuff," Mr. Williams said.. "There was a lot of cheering and yelling from the program people" who worked on the project, he added. He watched the launching over closed-circuit television at company headquarters in Huntington Beach, Calif.
The rocket's designers say that it will prove to be far cheaper and more reliable than current launching vehicles, which require the use of massive booster rockets that are designed to be used only once.
The flight, at White Sands Missile Range, was originally set for this morning but had to be postponed because of rain and lightning at the launching site. The test was closed to reporters.
The 42-foot-tall, bullet-shaped DC-X is a one-third-scale prototype of McDonnell Douglas's proposed Delta Clipper, a single-stage rocket that would be light enough to reach orbit and return without needing expensive disposable lower stages or boosters, which are thrown away on every flight.
 
Returns to Earth Under Power
 The rocket is designed to return intact to Earth and land upright as it eases to the ground by firing its engines to brake its descent.
The experimental model is lighter because of its skin, made of a nonmetallic composite of epoxy and graphite fiber rather than aluminum.
A similar material was used in the Voyager, a plane that flew around the world nonstop. The lightweight plane, based on composite materials, was designed by Burt Rutan, whose Scaled Composites company also made the Delta Clipper's skin.
McDonnell Douglas wants to build larger experimental versions of the rocket, but continued financing depends on the program's success. The Pentagon's Ballistic Missile Defense Organization has provided $60 million for the project and earmarked an extra $5 million for continued flight tests.
The contractor's goal is to build a 127-foot Delta Clipper that would be able to fly orbital or suborbital missions, manned or unmanned, with payloads of about 25,000 pounds.
 
Cheaper Than Shuttle
 McDonnell Douglas estimates that launching a full-size Delta Clipper would cost $10 million per flight.
By comparison, NASA estimates that each space shuttle flight costs $409 million, based on eight flights per year.
The Delta Clipper would not be able to carry as heavy a payload, but backers hope that its simplicity will make it more reliable and economical than current launching vehicles.
Aerospace engineers agree that operating costs must decrease if a commercial space industry is to flourish.
A second test flight for the DC-X is tentatively set for Aug. 27. In that test, the rocket is supposed to reach an altitude of about 650 feet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: EARTH (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (55%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE (NM) UNITED STATES (90%); EARTH (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; ROCKETS AND ROCKET PROPULSION; DELTA CLIPPER (ROCKET) MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); SPACE PROPULSION (90%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (90%); SPACECRAFT (89%); SPACE SHUTTLE (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (87%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MOUNTAINS (72%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



494 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Embargo of Cuba Has a Human Cost

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Cuba's epidemic of optic neuropathy, which has resulted in the visual and neurological impairment of thousands of Cubans, marks a new and dangerous point in the United States embargo of Cuba. As of June, total reported cases had reached 45,584, which is considerable for Cuba's population of 11 million. 
 Although the epidemic is in no way related to the embargo, it is evident that the resulting lack of medicines has had a further negative impact on the health of Cubans. At the same time, the embargo has caused Havana to increase control of dissidents.
During the 30-year embargo, Cuba had achieved among the best health indicators in Latin America and the Caribbean. Its infant mortality rate fell from 65 deaths in 1,000 live births in 1960 to 11 in 1991, and its life expectancy in 1991 reached 76 years. The marked reduction in mortality rates caused by infectious and parasitic diseases has resulted in children's mortality rates comparable to developed countries.
Cuba has also reached a high level of scientific achievement despite considerable restrictions on scientific books and materials as a result of the embargo. Illiteracy, which in 1960 affected 30 percent of the population, has now been practically eliminated, and Cuba's educational system is a model for other Latin American countries.
All these medical and social advances now run the risk of being reversed. The embargo, the lost economic support from former Soviet bloc allies and the Cuban Government's economic mismanagement have combined to bring the standard of living to subsistence level.
Although some food products normally unavailable can be obtained in the black market, their price is prohibitive. More than 300 medicines and basic medical supplies are lacking, and so are laboratory reactives and surgical and X-ray materials. Surgery is done only selectively, and there are limitations on ambulance services and biomedical research.
Paradoxically, the United States embargo is also hurting many American citizens who could benefit from successful treatments by Cuban doctors, such as for the skin condition vitiligo or for retinitis pigmentosa, which affects eyesight.
The way out of this quagmire is through negotiations between the two countries, an option Havana seems interested in pursuing. The time has come to put United States-Cuba relations on a more rational, intelligent basis.
 
CESAR CHELALA, M.D.
New York, Aug. 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

CITY: HAVANA, CUBA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); HAVANA, CUBA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); OPTIC NEURITIS; EMBARGOES EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (90%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); DISEASE REPORTING (78%); CHILDREN (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); BIOMEDICINE (76%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (76%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (74%); SKIN DISORDERS (72%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); INFANT MORTALITY (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: CHELALA, CESAR (DR)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993



495 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: S.A.T. Scores Improve For 2d Consecutive Year

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 18

 BODY:
For the second year in a row, the average scores of students taking the Scholastic Aptitude Test have risen, prompting test officials to be optimistic about continued improvement.
The average S.A.T. verbal score this year was 424, one point above last year's score, while the mathematics average was 478, a two-point rise over 1992, for a total of 902. The highest possible scores are 800 on each, and the lowest are 200. 
 The number of students taking the test also rose, indicating that the higher scores are a real gain, not a fluke. The test was taken by 1,109,380 students this year compared with 1,034,131 in 1992. In general, a larger pool of students who take a test results in lower overall scores, as the pool usually includes more students form lower-income, less-educated households.
Blacks maintained the gains they have made against whites since 1976, when the S.A.T. began reporting ethnic breakdowns.
On the verbal test, the average scores of black students rose to 353 this year, up 1 point from last year and 21 points from 1976. In comparison, the average score of white students was 444 this year, up 2 from last year and down 7 points from 1976.
 
Blacks Improve Scores
 On the math test, the average score of black students rose to 388 this year, up 3 points from last year and up 34 points from 1976. In comparison, the average score of white students was 494, up 3 points from last year and up 1 point from 1976.
New York, New Jersey and Connecticut were among the states with the highest percentage of college-bound students taking the S.A.T. New Yorkers had average scores of 416 for verbal and 471 for math, compared with 416 and 466 respectively in 1992. New Jersey had 419 in verbal and 473 in math, compared with 420 and 471 last year. Connecticut students averaged 430 in the verbal and 474 in math, compared with scores of 430 and 470 in 1992.
State scores cannot be easily compared because of variables including such things as the demographics of the test-takers, what percentage of all students take the test and how many students in a state plan to go to colleges that do not require the S.A.T. In addition, there is a competing test, the American College Test, that is preferred in some states.
Educators said they could not determine whether this year's increase indicated a long-term trend to reverse the decline that began in the 1960's. They did note that a continued increase in the percentage of test-takers who had taken 20 or more courses in six academic areas, to 42 percent this year, up from 34 percent of in 1987.
"Rigorous academic studies makes for winners," said Donald M. Stewart, president of the College Board. Like many educators, the S.A.T. test officials said high academic standards and challenging curriculums fostered better scores.
 
Right Direction
 "We're looking at a one-point difference but it's not the amount of the change that's impressive, but the direction," said Marc Tucker, president of the National Center on Education and the Economy, a nonprofit policy and analysis organization based in Rochester. "What's most important is that more kids are taking courses of substance. We need a whole lot more kids doing that."
Regardless of ethnic group, students with four or more years of study in the six academic course areas (English, art and music, social sciences and history, foreign languages, natural sciences and mathematics) attained the highest scores. The top scoring students in each academic area took the most advanced courses in these areas.
Despite the improvement, Mr. Stewart said too many students were still "not being held to rigorous academic standards or exposed to a challenging curriculum." He also expressed concern over the "painfully slow academic recovery," noting that this year's verbal score was still one point under the level of 1983 and that both scores were significantly below the historic high levels of the 1960's. The total score on the verbal test was 463 in 1969, and the total score on the math test was 493.
This year, women's scores rose one point each on the verbal test, to 420, and math sections, to 457, while men's scores rose three points on math, to 502, and remained unchanged on the verbal section, at 428.
Girls historically score lower than boys, a fact that FairTest, a Cambridge, Mass.-based organization that analyzes tests, attributes to bias.
But Howard T. Everson, senior research scientist with the College Board, said, "We don't think the test is biased. It's no secret. For a variety of reasons, young women are socialized and steered away from more rigorous math courses and that plays itself out in scores on standardized tests."
Generally, women taking the tests come from lower-income households, representing 59 percent of test-takers reporting annual household incomes below $20,000. Girls generally get higher grades than boys do in high school and college in the same courses.
Among other ethnic groups since 1976, American Indians raised their scores by 12 points on the verbal, to 400, and 27 points on math, to 447.
Asian-Americans increased their verbal scores by 1 point, to 415, and their math scores by 17 points, to 535. Mexican Americans improved their scores during this period by 21 points on the verbal, to 353, and 18 points on the math, to 428. Puerto Rican students increased their verbal scores by 3 points, to 367, and their math scores by 8 points, to 409.
Asian-Americans, whites and those who said they were from other ethnic groups reported that they had taken more academic courses and received the highest scores. Mexican-American and black students reported the fewest academic courses and were among the lowest scorers.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Test Results" Average S.A.T. verbal and math scores in 1993. A number of variables can make state-by-state comparisons difficult. The top possible score in each category is 800.

State	Verbal	Math	U.S.	424	478	Ala.	480	526	Alaska	438	477	Ariz.	444	497	Ark.	478	519	Calif.	415	484	Colo.	454	509	Conn.	430	474	Del.	429	465	D.C	405	441	Fla.	416	466	Ga.	399	445	Hawaii	401	478	Idaho	465	507	Ill.	475	541	Ind.	409	460	Iowa	520	583	Kan.	494	548	Ky.	476	522	La.	481	527	Me.	422	463	Md.	431	478	Mass.	427	476	Mich.	469	528	Minn.	489	556	Miss.	481	521	Mo.	481	532	Mont.	459	516	Neb.	479	544	Nev.	432	488	N.H.	442	487	N.J.	419	473	N.M.	478	525	N.Y.	416	471	N.C.	406	453	N.D.	518	583	Ohio	454	505	Okla.	482	530	Ore.	441	492	Pa.	418	460	R.I.	419	464	S.C.	396	442	S.D.	502	558	Tenn.	486	531	Tex.	413	472	Utah	500	549	Vt.	426	476	Va.	425	467	Wash.	435	486	W. Va.	439	485	Wis.	485	551	Wyo.	463	507	
 
(Source: College Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SA T CEREALES ASTIGI (93%); SA T LOS GONZALEZ (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SCHOLASTIC APTITUDE TEST (SAT); MATHEMATICS;
BLACKS (IN US) STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); TRENDS (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

PERSON: DE WITT, KAREN

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1993



496 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Large Increase In Trade Deficit Startles Experts

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 19

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit widened sharply in June to $12.06 billion, the largest in more than five years, as exports shrank and imports rose, especially in trade with Western Europe.
The sheer size of the June shortfall startled trade experts, who had expected only a modest increase from the May deficit. "That's just unimaginable -- holy moly," said Wayne L. Berman, a former Commerce Department official and senior campaign aide for President George Bush, when told of the June deficit. 
 Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown and some private-sector economists attributed the deterioration to economic stagnation abroad, which reduces demand for American goods, and continued growth in the United States, which leaves Americans better able to afford imports.
 
 
Third World Buys Less
 Exports to the third world, which had grown for the first five months of the year, fell in June, although by less than exports to Europe. But imports from third world countries also rose.
 The trade deficit with Japan also rose, but the dollar still soared against the yen after the Federal Reserve supported the dollar in the currency markets. [Page D1.]
 The June deficit in merchandise trade easily exceeded the large May deficit of $8.38 billion, and was the largest since a $12.56 billion shortfall in February 1988. "It further reflects that while our economy improves, the economies of several of our major trading partners remain weak," Mr. Brown said in a statement.
But Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., the president of the Economic Strategy Institute, a Washington research group that advocates trade policies that are more confrontational, said the deficit was too large to be explained by the worldwide slowdown. He contended that closed markets abroad were also partly responsible.
Stephen L. Cooney Jr., a trade expert at the National Association of Manufacturers, said the 5.1 percent rise in imports in June, to $49.71 billion, was remarkable given Commerce Department estimates that the economy grew only 1.8 percent in the second quarter.
"It's a pretty modest recovery, but it sure hasn't been modest in terms of import growth," he said. By contrast, exports fell 3.3 percent, to $37.65 billion.
 
Exports Contribute Less
 According to Commerce Department figures, exports are contributing less and less to American economic output, after equaling three-quarters of the nation's growth during the Bush Administration. During the first half of this year, rising exports accounted for only a fifth of the nation's economic growth.
Recalling the Clinton campaign's famous slogan, "It's the economy, stupid," Mr. Berman said, "The phrase should have been, 'It's the global economy, stupid,' because you can't separate our economy out."
The biggest increases in imports were for manufactured consumer goods -- notably cotton clothing and television sets -- and manufactured industrial products, led by computers, civil aircraft and computer chips. Export categories that fell sharply included gold, computer accessories and cars and car parts.
The Commerce Department has now announced four consecutive monthly trade deficits running at an annual pace of $100 billion or more; the nation has not recorded a surplus in more than a decade.
The United States trade deficit peaked at $152.12 billion in 1987. The annual trade deficit gradually fell to $66.72 billion in 1991 as the value of the dollar shrank on foreign-exchange markets, and then grew last year to $84.5 billion as the American economy began expanding while other economies did not grow.
 
Lower Sales in Europe
 The weakest June trade figures were for commerce with Western Europe, Japan, Latin America and members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. With the European Community forecasting a shrinkage in economic output this year of five-tenths of a percentage point, sales of American goods there and elsewhere in Western Europe have steadily slackened and the American surplus has evaporated.
The United States ran a $332 million surplus with Western European nations in May that turned into a $1.7 billion deficit in June, the Commerce Department said today. Exports tumbled 11.5 percent from May while imports climbed 9.9 percent.
Exports to developing countries and Canada have offset part of the weakness in American exports to Western Europe and Japan this year.
But this pattern did not hold true in June, when exports to nonindustrialized countries fell 3.1 percent while imports surged 9.6 percent. Mr. Cooney said American sales to the third world were slowing as some countries, especially in Latin America, sought to trim their own trade deficits.
Japan and Mexico, the two countries with the most sensitive trade relations with the United States at present, posted gains in their trade with the United States. The American trade deficit with Japan widened to $4.33 billion, from $3.75 billion, while the American trade surplus with Mexico contracted to $127.9 million, from $249.9 million.
Economists disagree about the importance of monthly trade deficits. Monthly figures fluctuate considerably, and the June deficit was made larger by a sharp drop in gold exports and an increase in imports of civilian aircraft.
Experts even disagree about the method of calculating the monthly deficit. Many economists contend that the figures are misleading because they exclude trade in services, like insurance and banking.
To address this concern, Commerce Secretary Brown ordered the department in April to begin giving combined quarterly trade figures for goods and services. Until now, the department provided separate merchandise and service figures, but did not add them. For the first quarter of this year, the United States had a $29.1 billion merchandise trade deficit for goods only, and a $14.6 billion surplus in services, for a combined trade deficit of $14.4 billion.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade" shows the defict and the excess of imports over exports. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (88%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (71%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (88%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BROWN, RONALD H (SEC) GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



497 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Heidi Talks Heidi, And Hollywood Listens Closely

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Aug. 19

 BODY:
Heidi is starting to talk -- and talk. And while she seems to be saying nothing quite as scandalous as anyone else at lunch at the Ivy or Cicada, the movie community here remains frightened and fascinated.
"You know, it's all out of jealousy," Heidi Fleiss, the 27-year-old woman accused of running a high-level prostitution ring here, says of her arrest. "The truth is, people in this town have been in this business their entire lives. It took me one year and I did it. 
 "By the time I was 26, I was burnt out. I won't make any boasts, but L.A. is in a recession. I put a lot of people through college, maybe. A lot of people got to go on with their careers. A lot of girls got to be who they really wanted to be."
 
The Worst of Hollywood
 Ms. Fleiss made these and other comments in an interview to be published in the October issue of Details, the hip Conde Nast men's monthly with a circulation of 450,000. The interview, by Nikki Finke, a journalist and author, presents a version of the Heidi chronicles that are a measure of Hollywood's underside -- thousands of dollars tossed around by studio executives, producers and performers in a world of drugs, perversity, sleaze and threats of blackmail.
Ms. Fleiss was arrested at her $1.6 million mansion in the Benedict Canyon area and charged with running what the Los Angeles police said was an exclusive call girl ring. She pleaded not guilty last Monday, in Municipal Court, to five counts of pandering and a single count of possession of cocaine for sale. She was released on $100,000 bail and ordered to appear in court on Sept. 10 for a preliminary hearing.
What has shaken Hollywood, which is certainly accustomed to scandal but now pretends to be just a family town, is the possibility that Ms. Fleiss's clientele may have included film moguls and stars. And she is beginning to talk about it. Connie Chung, Barbara Walters, book publishers, supermarket tabloids, you name it, have sought her out.
Although Ms. Fleiss has spoken sporadically to The Los Angeles Times and Daily Variety, her comments in Details are her most extensive to date. She names no clients but speaks of a sour relationship with a television director, Ivan Nagy, who was also arrested on a pandering charge; her early life in the affluent Los Feliz section of Los Angeles, where her father is a pediatrician and her mother was a schoolteacher, and her involvement in prostitution, largely from 1991 to 1992.
 
Angry With Billy Idol
 Ms. Fleiss also briefly discusses her angry relationship with the rock star Billy Idol, who has recently acknowledged knowing her while denying that he paid for sex.
Of her relationship with Mr. Nagy, Ms. Fleiss said she phoned Michael Nathanson, an executive at Columbia Pictures, where Mr. Nagy has worked, after Mr. Nagy began harassing her when they broke up two years ago.
"I said, 'Michael, please call Ivan and stop him from bothering me,' " Ms. Fleiss said. After that call, she said: "I never made another call to Michael, ever. Never."
Asked if anybody ever gave her a check from Columbia Studios, Ms. Fleiss replied: "No. Never. Ever."
Columbia has declined to comment. Mr. Nathanson, through his lawyer, has denied any improper involvement with Ms. Fleiss. His bosses, however, are unhappy about seeing his name and Columbia's in print for the first time on the subject of Ms. Fleiss.
Ms. Fleiss showed no reluctance about seeing her own name in print. "Put it this way," she said in the interview, "the person 'Heidi' that people talk about -- in the history of time, no one did what she did in one year. No one."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I put a lot of people through college, maybe," Heidi Fleiss said in a magazine interview. (Anacleto Rappling/The Los Angeles Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DETAILS (MAGAZINE) LOS ANGELES TIMES (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETAILS (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOLLYWOOD (CALIF) UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION; MOTION PICTURES INTERVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (89%); ARRESTS (89%); PROSTITUTION (89%); FILM (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); PUBLISHING (72%); EXTORTION (71%); BAIL (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); BOOK PUBLISHING (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (65%); POP & ROCK (65%); COCAINE (65%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; FLEISS, HEIDI BARBARA WALTERS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



498 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
The nation's trade deficit widened sharply in June to $12.06 billion, the largest in more than five years, as exports shrank and imports rose, especially in trade with Western Europe. The size of the June deficit startled experts, who had expected only a modest increase from the May figure of $8.38 billion. [Page A1.]
 
Markets
The dollar rallied sharply after the Federal Reserve system and the Treasury Department apparently intervened to halt the surging Japanese yen by buying dollars in large quantities. [D1.] Gold prices tumbled $3 an ounce, and other precious metals fell in response to the Fed's move in the currency markets. [D14.] 
 The bond market rose across the board, partly on the surprisingly poor merchandise-trade report. The yield on the 30-year bond dropped to another 16-year low, and other maturities also fell. [D1.]
Stocks were mixed as investors consolidated their positions after strong gains Wednesday. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 7.27 points, setting another closing high at 3,612.13. [D4.]
The number of shares sold short rose to a record on both the New York and American Stock Exchanges this month, spurred in part by increased merger activity. [D2.]
 
Companies
Mattel and Fisher-Price agreed to merge in a stock swap valued at about $1 billion. The combined company, which would join Mattel's Barbie, Hot Wheels and Disney infant toys with Fisher-Price's preschool lines, is expected to challenge Hasbro, which became the No. 1 toy maker when it acquired Tonka in 1991. [D1.]
GlenFed shareholders narrowly approved a $425 million bailout and gave up most of their equity in the company to keep it from being seized by regulators. The Government would take over Glendale Federal Bank if it does not meet capital standards. [D1.]
Lockheed Information Management used a lobbying campaign that began soon after Mayor Dinkins took office early in 1990 to win a city contract, despite having been implicated in a municipal corruption scandal in the mid-1980's. [A1.]
Regulators allowed Southern Ohio Coal to maintain a flooded coal mine by pumping polluted waste water into the Ohio River because, they say, the environmental damage is temporary but the loss of the mine and more than 800 jobs would be permanent. [A12.]
The Clinton Administration wants to repeal a law that prohibits even negligible amounts of cancer-causing substances from being added to food. The move would benefit pesticide manufacturers, who have long opposed the law, known as the Delaney clause. [A14.]
Two new potential buyers have emerged for Nutri-System, and Nutri-System franchisees are independently pursuing an affiliation with other diet companies. [D3.]
Texas Instruments plans a huge new chip factory in anticipation of continuing strong worldwide demand. The company will spend $750 million to $1 billion through 1998. [D3.]
A big shareholder in Rodman & Renshaw proposed to replace the board with his own nominees. Marshall S. Geller submitted the plan after a deal to make him chairman failed. [D3.]
I.B.M. scientists developed a new method for manufacturing a sensitive device for reading magnetic information on computer disks, making it possible to store more data. [D3.]
Lower airline ticket taxes were among recommendations in the report of a U.S. panel looking into the industry's ills. [D3.]
 
Today's Columns
The groundwork for a stock market fall is being laid, many on Wall Street say, though they expect the market to continue its rise for the near future. Kurt Eichenwald: Market Place. [D1.]
The Thom McAn shoe chain is scrambling to attract younger consumers with a campaign by Kirshenbaum & Bond, the agency Thom McAn hired in June. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D15.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MAT (NASDAQ) (68%); TXN (NASDAQ) (50%); NTRI (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (68%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (68%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%); NAICS812191 DIET & WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (50%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC7299 MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL SERVICES, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MATTEL INC (68%); LOCKHEED INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES CO (53%); GLENDALE FEDERAL BANK FSB (53%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (50%); NUTRISYSTEM INC (50%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS EXPORT PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MERGERS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); BONDS (90%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (89%); WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (86%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); CHEMICALS TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); LOBBYING (76%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); FRANCHISING (75%); GOLD MARKETS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (70%); TOYS & GAMES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); MAYORS (68%); COAL MINING (65%); BAILOUTS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); CARCINOGENS (60%); DIETING (60%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (60%); CORRUPTION (50%); CANCER (50%); SCANDALS (50%); PESTICIDES (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



499 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
U.S. Tries To Halt Fall Of Dollar

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration seemed to put out a stop sign yesterday on the precipitous decline of the dollar against the Japanese yen, trying to halt it through dollar-buying by the Federal Reserve and jawboning by the Treasury.
The apparent sudden shift in the Administration's outlook and the Fed's dollar purchases in the currency market caught traders by surprise, causing a sharp rally in the dollar. In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar jumped 4.22 yen, or 4.15 percent, to 105.85 yen, the strongest the American currency had been since the end of July. In Tokyo early on Friday, the dollar slipped to 104.60 yen. 
 The dollar's surge yesterday came despite a Government report that the merchandise trade deficit jumped in June to its highest level in more than five years. The deficit with Japan alone rose to $4.33 billion. Since February, the White House has aggressively encouraged the strengthening of the yen to help reverse this trade imbalance.
Currency traders and speculators will now try to determine if the Administration has truly decided that the dollar has dropped too far. The dollar hit a low of 100.40 yen to the dollar in trading on Tuesday.
 
 
A Shift in Policy?
 "This is a new statement from the Administration, and that is why the market is wondering if there is a shift in Administration policy," said Nicholas P. Sargen, the chief investment officer at Prudential Insurance's Global Advisers.
But it will be hard to tell at first what the Administration has done. The Administration may be trying only to slow the fall of the dollar. The Administration might have been worried, as some analysts suggested, that a drop below 100 yen to the dollar would rattle the American bond market, where the move to lower long-term interest rates is about the only positive economic news for which the President can take credit.
And traders are suspicious because there have been other instances when interventions by the Fed and comments by Administration officials were mistaken for stop signs on a falling dollar.
To test the Administration, traders may sell dollars for yen, pushing the dollar lower, and then see if the Federal Reserve again intervenes to support the dollar. If the Fed does step in, the Administration's message will appear more firm.
In addition, traders will look for a sign that the United States and Japan have reached some kind of quid pro quo. The Administration may have agreed to back off from downward pressure on the dollar in exchange for a move by Japan like stimulating its economy or opening its markets that would benefit the United States by encouraging Japanese imports of American goods.
The American move did come on the same day that the Japanese Government promised unspecified plans to deregulate the economy. President Clinton had a phone conversation with Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa on Wednesday night, but White House officials said they believed that the two did not discuss exchange rates.
Traders in the currency market were quick to speculate that there was some sort of deal. If that is the case, they said, the Administration will probably continue to defend the dollar, possibly stopping its decline at least for the time being.
 
 
Traders Wait and See
 "The market wants to see what happens over the weekend to see if deals were made," said Richard E. Witten, a partner in foreign exchange at Goldman, Sachs & Company. "If a trade deal has been worked out, the pressure on the dollar may go down some."
Merely halting the decline of the dollar, however, will not bring much relief to Japanese exporters, whose goods have lost their competitive edge abroad because the strong yen has made them much more expensive. Japanese companies may also lose millions of dollars in profits from sales abroad when they are converted into the stronger yen.
 And there will not be much relief for American tourists in Japan, where a cup of coffee can cost $5. Tourists were already getting less than 100 yen to the dollar when they changed money in hotels. Even if the dollar does not sink any further, it is still 15.2 percent lower than it was at the end of 1992.
 
 
Treasury Is Concerned
 The Treasury Department would not explain its position other than to issue a statement by Lawrence H. Summers, Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs. But his statement indicated that the Administration believed that further declines in the dollar against the yen would be counterproductive.
"We are committed to cooperating with our G-7 partners in foreign exchange markets," Mr. Summers said in part, referring to the Group of Seven nations. "In this context, we are concerned that the recent rapid rise of the value of the Japanese yen could retard growth in the Japanese and world economies."
A White House official said the decision had been made by the Treasury Department and portrayed the move as a tactical step that was consistent with the Administration's goal of avoiding excessive volatility in the currency markets. The official insisted that it did not represent a new policy by the United States.
 The backdrop for the dollar's fall and the yen's rally is the continuing dispute over American access to the Japanese market.
On Feb. 19, Secretary of the Treasury Lloyd Bentsen, at the National Press Club, said, "I'd like to see a stronger yen." Traders immediately interpreted this as a license to sell the dollar against the yen.
"The yen is the most political of all currencies," Mr. Sargen of Global Advisers said. He said the fall of the dollar this year -- compared with last year, when the Japanese trade surplus was just as much of a problem -- was a new policy by the Clinton Administration to pressure Japan to open its markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE CURRENCIES (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); BOND MARKETS (71%); BONDS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



500 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Coal Mine Sends Polluted Water Into Ohio Creeks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WILKESVILLE, Ohio, Aug. 19

 BODY:
Here in this economically depressed Appalachian region of Ohio, the Southern Ohio Coal Company is saving a flooded coal mine by pumping a billion gallons of polluted waste water into 75 miles of streams and creeks that flow into the Ohio River.
Now in its 19th day, the waste water is painting the creeks the color of coffee or tea with cream, and in its wake the discharge is killing all aquatic life and posing a threat to an endangered species of mussel in the Ohio River. 
 The discharge -- harmful mainly because it contains high levels of iron and is slightly acidic -- does not pose any health problem for communities that rely on the Ohio River for drinking water. That is because the nearest municipality, Huntington, W. Va., more than 50 miles downstream, is able to remove impurities.
Nonetheless, the flow of polluted water from the caved-in coal mine has put an end to recreational fishing, swimming and boating on the creeks for six months to two years, say state officials who approved the discharge.
 
Widespread Support
 The company has won widespread support from state environmental officials, politicians, union leaders and area residents by contending that the environmental damage is temporary and reversible, but that the loss of the mine and more than 800 jobs would be permanent if the water was not quickly pumped out.
A Federal court in Columbus today blocked the Federal Environmental Protection Agency from taking any action to halt the pumping. It also prevented the United States Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation and Enforcement from executing an earlier order to stop the discharge.
"It was a jobs issue," said Jenny Camper, a spokeswoman for Gov. George V. Voinovich, a Republican, who along with the state's entire Congressional delegation, supported the company plan.
Southern Ohio Coal, the largest employer in southeastern Ohio, is a subsidiary of the American Electric Power Company, which owns three coal companies and seven electric utilities in Ohio and six nearby states.
In trying to stop the discharge, Federal environmental officials said the company was merely using the politically powerful issue of jobs to avoid the expense of purifying its waste water. "It's basic blackmail," said Dale Bryson, regional director of the water division of the E.P.A. "Severe environmental damage is occurring and I think it will be long-lasting."
But Federal District Judge Sandra S. Beckwith ruled in favor of the company, which brought the lawsuit, saying that the two Federal agencies do not have jurisdiction in the state case.
Federal and state environmental officials said they are disappointed. "I am astounded that a Federal judge would restrain two Federal agencies from exercising their primary responsibilities," said David C. Callaghan, director of the West Virginia Division of Environmental Protection.
Dr. Eli McCoy, chief of the Office of Water Resources in the West Virginia Division of Environmental Protection, said the most polluted body of water, Leading Creek, was sending a sludge blanket into the Ohio River at the confluence of the two waterways near Middleport, Ohio. Aerial photographs show that the sludge has sunk to the river bottom and is depositing an iron-based sediment in a plume up to several miles long, he said.
Environmental officials at the Ohio River Valley Water Sanitation Commission, an interstate agency, say their biggest concern is that the sediment will wipe out beds of common mussels as well as a bed of an endangered species, the pink pearly mucket mussels.
"Our immediate concern is the mussel beds," said Peter A. Tennant, a spokesman for the commission. He said the company responded to the commission's concerns last week by bringing in pumps to speed up the mixing of the creek water with the river water to dilute the pollution.
The problem began last month at Southern Ohio Coal's mining complex, one of the largest underground coal mining operations in the nation. The two mines in the complex, three miles east of Wilkesville, produced 5.2 million tons of high-sulfur coal last year.
At 8 P.M. on July 11, company officials say, a structural support collapsed in an abandoned mine that was holding about a billion gallons of waste water, flooding 10 miles of tunnels in an adjacent, active mine that holds about 100 million tons of coal.
The highly acidic floodwaters are corroding the mine's electrical systems as well as $34 million worth of mining equipment and damaging the 20-year-old mine's structural integrity, said James F. Tompkins, a vice president and general manager of the mine. "Time is the most important factor in saving the equipment and the mine," he said during a tour of the complex.
If the water had been left in the mine until it could be properly treated, Mr. Tompkins said, the damage would have been so great that it would have been too expensive to reopen that mine as well as another, which shares overhead costs with the damaged mine.
About 300 miners have already been laid off while the mine is being pumped out. If the company were to close the whole complex, it would mean a loss of 815 jobs, or $78 million a year in lost wages and benefits in a corner of the state where a quarter of the population lives below the poverty level.
The company told state environmental agencies that if the mine and the jobs were to be saved, the company would have to pump the waste water into nearby creeks and streams for 60 days without complying with state and Federal water waste standards, which the state enforces.
One state agency, the Division of Mine Reclamation, denied the company's request, but the agency's ruling was stayed pending a hearing later this month by an appellate review board. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, meanwhile, granted the company's request to discharge the waste water, starting July 30.
In its agreement with the state agency, the company said it would increase its capacity for treating the water, search for better solutions and mitigate environmental damage wherever possible. "If the company had not been able to meet our environmental concerns, we would not have allowed them to proceed," said Robert R. Berger, a spokesman for the agency.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Southern Ohio Coal Company argued that the loss of 800 jobs would be permanent unless a flooded mine was pumped out, so permission was granted even though the polluted discharge would pose health problems. Gary Evans, left, a union leader, and James F. Tompkins, the general manager of the mine, stood at a water-discharge point that feeds into the Ohio River. (John Halley for The New York Times)
 
Map of Ohio showing location of Wilkesville.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (99%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN OHIO COAL CO SOUTHERN OHIO COAL CO (92%); AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (84%); OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION & ENFORCEMENT (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN OHIO COAL CO OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION & ENFORCEMENT (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OHIO; WILKESVILLE (OHIO); OHIO RIVER UNITED STATES (99%); OHIO, USA (99%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; COAL; MINES AND MINING COAL MINING (92%); COAL INDUSTRY (91%); WATER POLLUTION (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); SURFACE MINING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MINE & QUARRY RECLAMATION (78%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); POLITICS (71%); JURISDICTION (70%); JUDGES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); APPROVALS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); LITIGATION (65%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (62%); SPORT FISHING (53%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY GEORGE VOINOVICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



501 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
NEW YORK CITY BUDGET DIRECTOR RESIGNS
The New York City Budget Director, Philip R. Michael, has resigned at the request of the Mayor a day after a city investigation determined that he had shown favoritism to Lockheed Information Management Services, a company seeking a $150 million contract to collect parking ticket fines. A1.
 
DISGRACE WAS NOT FOREVER
How a company that was disgraced just seven years ago, implicated near the heart of New York City corruption scandals, managed to resurrect its standing and ultimately win an extremely lucrative city contract is the story of a well-calibrated campaign by Lockheed Information Management Services. A1. 
 Once again, Mayor Dinkins finds himself vulnerable when the question is raised: "Why did it take so long?" News Analysis. B4.
 
8 FINALISTS FOR CHANCELLOR
The New York City Board of Education, moving into the final days of its troubled, six-month search for a new schools chancellor, has focused on eight candidates and has scheduled interviews with the finalists for next week. B3.
 
HAITIANS AND THE RADIO TOWN SQUARE
Haitian-Americans, like many other immigrants who relied on radio in their homelands, have clung to the medium in the United States as a primary source of information. B3.
 
NEW WEEKLY SECTION IN THE TIMES
The New York Times is creating a weekly section aiming to help readers more easily navigate life in New York City and its neighborhoods, the publisher, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., has announced. B3.
 
QUEENS MAN ARRESTED IN RAPES
An unemployed man from Queens was arrested on Wednesday in four sexual assaults since January that were primarily in Jamaica Estates. The police said the man was under suspicion in other cases. B3.
Teamsters chief cleared of conflict charge. B2.
 
REGION
 
MAYOR BACKS WHITMAN
Jersey City's Mayor, Bret Schundler, a Republican, has endorsed Christine Todd Whitman, the Republican candidate for governor. He said his backing "largely forecloses any possibility that Jim Florio will be re-elected." B5.
 
A FINAL SHOREHAM QUESTION
Officials in charge of the decommissioning of the Shoreham power plant are beginning to grapple with perhaps the final question in the long struggle over Shoreham: What do you do with an empty nuclear-power plant? B5.
 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE RECORDS RELEASED
New Jersey Gov. Jim Florio raised at least $58,240 for his re-election campaign from companies that handle public bond issues before calling for legislation to ban such contributions, records show. All told, he has raised $1.5 million, compared with $475,000 for his Republican opponent, Christine Todd Whitman. B5.
Executives entrusted with doling out part of the Carvel ice cream fortune to charity squandered hundreds of thousands of dollars, New York Attorney General Robert Abrams has charged. B6.
 
Our Towns by Evelyn Nieves B5
Chronicle B6

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Manhattan Mortgages" shows interest rates for 30-year fixed-rate or 1-year adjustable-rate loans (chosen by 66% of borrowers in June 1993) for Manhattan co-ops and condominiums. (Source: Manhattan Mortgage Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); LOCKHEED INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POWER PLANTS (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); BONDS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); GOVERNORS (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); PARKING OFFENSES (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); ARRESTS (69%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (64%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (57%); 

PERSON: ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



502 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Precious Metals Plummet On Currency Maneuvering

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Gold prices tumbled yesterday as the dollar jumped sharply against the Japanese yen.
The Federal Reserve intervened in the currency markets, buying dollars and selling yen, after a larger-than-expected merchandise trade deficit sent the dollar falling. 
 The dollar surged higher after Lawrence Summers, Treasury Under Secretary, said the recent rise in the yen could hinder global economic growth, reversing the Clinton Administration's earlier endorsements of the strong yen.
"This is a huge watershed for the dollar," said Keith Cheveralls, foreign exchange manager at Nippon Credit Bank in New York. "Japan and the U.S. have decided that the yen is not going to strengthen."
In response, gold and other precious metals fell. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August delivery lost $3 an ounce, to $371.30. December gold, the most actively traded futures contract, fell $3.10, to $374.40. September silver slipped 5.2 cents an ounce, to $4.658 an ounce. And October platinum plunged $5.10 an ounce, to $386.30, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 
'Pressure on Gold'
 A rising dollar often leads to lower gold prices, in part because a strong dollar dims prospects for renewed inflation and also makes gold more expensive for foreign investors.
"When we got a good dollar rally, it put pressure on gold," said Jim Steel, vice president for commodities research at Refco Inc. in New York.
On other commodity markets, unleaded gasoline futures continued their descent on expectations that supplies would outstrip demand.
Unleaded gasoline for September delivery fell 0.58 cent a gallon, to 53.52 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. September crude oil slipped a cent a barrel, to $17.65. But September heating oil edged up 0.08 cent a gallon, to 52.37 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8304 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (66%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (66%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: REFCO INC (66%); AOZORA BANK LTD (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; PRICES; CURRENCY GOLD MARKETS (93%); FUTURES (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); HEATING OIL (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (64%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



503 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Rally On Report Of Trade Gap

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The bond market rallied across the board yesterday on the back of surprisingly downbeat economic news in the June merchandise trade report and on some relief that the Clinton Administration may have moved to halt the decline of the dollar against the Japanese yen.
The yield on the 30-year bond, in what is becoming a routine development, dropped to another 16-year low. But more importantly, the rest of the bond market rallied, pulling the yield on the 10-year note to a new 20-year low and the yield on the 5-year note to its lowest level since 1967, according to monthly averages kept by Salomon Brothers.
 
 
Exports Fall
 The unexpectedly large jump in the June trade deficit to $12.06 billion came, in part, at the expense of American exports, which fell 3.3 percent. And economists were quick to conclude that the surprisingly steep drop could mean that the growth in the second quarter of the year, which was initially reported to be 1.6 percent, will be cut back to as low as just six-tenths of 1 percent at an annual rate after adjustment for inflation. 
 Such a downward adjustment in the second-quarter growth just adds potency to the economic theme that is playing so well in the bond market now: that inflation, despite a scare this spring, is remaining low and economic growth is so sluggish that there is no chance that there will be any worrisome price pressures soon.
On the dollar, the Federal Reserve intervened to support the currency against the yen and the Clinton Administration, in a statement from the Under Secretary of the Treasury, indicated a surprising concern about the weakness of the dollar that could signal a shift in policy. Since February, Administration officials have indicated that they favored a stronger yen and a weaker dollar.
For some traders, according to Matthew Alexy, government trading strategist at the First Boston Corporation, the move to support the dollar did relieve fears that the dollar could break through 100 yen and possibly force disruptive selling of Treasury securities by the Japanese. The dollar ended at 105.85 yen, up 4.15 percent, from 101.63 on Wednesday.
In a volatile day of trading, the price of the new 6.25 percent bond due in August 2023 jumped 15/32 of a point as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 6.20 percent in late trading, down from 6.26 percent the day before. The price of the 10-year note, which is becoming an alternative benchmark for long-term interest rates, jumped 15/32 and the yield fell to 5.61 percent, from 5.67 percent Wednesday and the lowest since the spring of 1971.
The price of the five-year note was up 10/32 as the yield plunged to 4.94 percent, from 5.01 percent and the lowest in 26 years. The discount rates on Treasury bills fell, as the rate on the three-month bill slipped to 2.96 percent, from 2.97 percent, and the rate on the six-month bill hit 3.08 percent, down one basis point, or hundredth of a percentage point.
The trade deficit news helped send the yield on the 30-year bond as low as 6.18 percent in the morning, and then almost all the gains were lost after a big buyer of 5-year notes followed by selling the 30-year bond. But then the bond recovered, matching its 6.18 percent yield in the afternoon before closing slightly higher.
Joseph Liro, chief economist at S. G. Warburg & Company, said that buying by the Japanese also helped lift the price of the 30-year bond, noting that the new issue seems to be trading in a zone of its own.
He suggested that it was the rally of the 30-year bond in the afternoon that just pulled up the rest of the market with it.
 
 
Frequency Cut
 One reason the bond is trading so much better than the rest of the market is that the Treasury has cut the annual issuance of the bond by 40 percent and will now sell it only two times a year instead of four. In addition, the bond is in demand for traders who are betting that the differential in the yield between shorter- and longer-term securities is narrowing. For this trade, one can buy the 30-year bond and sell the two-year note.
A sign of the demand for the new 30-year bond is the difference between the yield on it, which was 6.20 percent yesterday, and the yield on the old 7.125 percent 30-year bond due in February 2023, which was 6.37 percent in late trading yesterday.
Normally, this gap would be much narrower. But there is more demand than usual for several reasons. One, said Jay Goldinger, a trader at Capital Insight in Los Angeles, was that corporate bond traders have sold the new bond short as a way to hedge against adverse price moves on the corporate bonds they are buying. But because the new bond has rallied so much they need to buy it back to prevent sharp losses.
Mr. Goldinger said that the people who own the new bonds are just doing what is natural when a rally is on and other traders are caught short -- "pressing their positions."
Following are the results of the Government's auction of one-year bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 96.663
Discounted Rate . . . 3.30%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.43%
High Price . . . 96.673
Discounted Rate . . . 3.29%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.42%
Low Price . . . 96.663
Discounted Rate . . . 3.30%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.43%
Accepted at low price . . . 47%
Total applied for . . . $52,088,128
Accepted . . . $15,280,843
N.Y. applied for . . . $48,790,047
N.Y. accepted . . . $14,639,530
Noncompetitive . . . $449,278
 
The one-year bills mature Aug. 25, 1994.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" tracks average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent, since May. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CURRENCY BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); INTEREST RATES (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



504 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: A Nemesis Revisited;
For Dinkins, the Toughest Question In a Scandal Is What Took So Long?

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
As Mayor David N. Dinkins responded this week to an official report that harshly criticized his senior aides for giving preferential treatment to a company that won a $150 million contract to collect New York City parking fines, he said, "New Yorkers may well feel angry," and added: "That is understandable. I am angry, as well."
But yesterday Mr. Dinkins's opponents, and more than a few of his own aides, were asking in one way or another, "What took you so long?" 
 It is a question that has dogged this Mayor at a half-dozen critical junctures since he took office nearly four years ago, from his reluctance to intercede in the boycott of a Korean grocery store to his initial reluctance to add police officers amid concern over crime, to his postponement of hard choices on the budget to his handling of the interracial violence in Crown Heights.
Of course, there is nothing intrinsically wrong with deliberation, and Mr. Dinkins has long insisted that it often produces superior results. But with the parking fines, as in several other cases, even his friends suggest that Mr. Dinkins may have deepened his problems by not reacting more quickly and forcefully to early warnings.
Repeated news reports over two years questioned how the company, Lockheed Information Management Services, had obtained special meetings with top city officials while its competitor was left with junior aides. There was open feuding between the budget director, who backed the contract, and the Transportation Commissioner, who opposed it, and a phalanx of well-connected lobbyists were hired by Lockheed explicitly for their personal ties to the Mayor.
But Mr. Dinkins ordered an inquiry by the City Department of Investigation only last spring. He canceled the contract only on Wednesday, when the report was issued, and accepted the budget director's resignation only yesterday.
"It basically confirms the kinds of things Giuliani has been saying about him," one senior mayoral aide said glumly, referring to Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal mayoral candidate, and speaking on condition of anonymity. "It's sad."
That Lockheed was the successor to a company that rigged bids in the corruption scandals that bedeviled the city in the mid-80's -- and that some of the same executives still ran it -- should have raised loud alarm bells at City Hall, and indeed it did. The Investigation Department itself learned two years ago of complaints by Transportation Commissioner Lucius J. Riccio that Budget Director Philip R. Michael had tried to exert undue influence on Lockheed's behalf.
But it took no action until news accounts repeated Mr. Riccio's claims last spring.
The report draws a picture of City Hall's workings that surprised few who know the Mayor or Mr. Michael, one in which the Mayor seemed perhaps too willing to delegate authority and too tolerant of his subordinates' shortcomings.
In fact, late on the night of June 30, 1991, after Mr. Dinkins and the City Council had finally reached agreement on the bleakest, hardest-fought municipal budget in years, a befuddled reporter asked Mr. Michael whether the final package amounted to $28 billion or $29 billion.
"It's $28 billion or $29 billion, give or take a billion," Mr. Michael said. Some of the bone-weary aides in the room laughed. But off to the side the Mayor just glowered silently and said nothing.
 
Quest for Revenue
 That Mr. Michael could not be bothered to give a precise answer at such an important moment and that Mr. Dinkins quietly suffered that attitude then and in the many months since sums up what the Mayor's critics regularly describe as the air of casual attention to some problems and appearances of propriety that has so often seemed to prevail on his watch.
The city investigation did not suggest that Mr. Michael sought to profit personally from Lockheed's gain. As the architect of the city's spending plans, deeply in need of any new revenues in the face of a recession and huge budget gaps, he was apparently trying to increase the revenue from the Parking Violations Bureau, while Mr. Riccio was also guarding his own bureaucratic turf.
Nor did the report this week hint that the Mayor had done anything improper. Indeed, it never so much as suggested that he was even especially aware of the feuding that was dividing his aides.
"I had some awareness of the struggle, because some of it was mentioned in the press, and I inquired, 'What's this about?' " the Mayor recalled yesterday. "Norman was busily trying to resolve it," referring to First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel.
The report did suggest, however, that Mr. Michael -- by offering in the presence of Lockheed executives to help Mr. Riccio withstand other budget cuts if he granted a small pilot contract to Lockheed -- surrendered his claim to impartiality and gave Lockheed an inapproriate advantage in the bidding.
The Mayor's press secretary, Leland T. Jones, said Mr. Dinkins had no recollection of any conversations with Basil A. Paterson, a former Secretary of State for New York State and one of Mr. Dinkins's oldest friends, whom Lockheed hired to help lobby the city. It would have hardly been unusual if Mr. Paterson had, because Mr. Dinkins has been a figure in city politics for more than two decades, socializes with the former city officials who now lobby the government and is willing to be waylaid by even the least powerful ones who have been known to ambush him from a bench outside his suite.
In its report on Lockheed, the Investigation Department also criticized Mr. Steisel -- who is often advanced as the administration's chief manager and is even now in charge of removing asbestos from city schools -- saying he had failed to make a vital initial finding, whether farming out the collection of tickets was in the city's best interests.
Allowing for campaign hyperbole, Mr. Giuliani's words yesterday had an uncomfortably acute sting.
"I can't imagine that any parents in the city are resting any easier today knowing that Norman Steisel, the same person who seemed not to know what he was doing in handling Lockheed, is now in charge of asbestos removal in the schools," Mr. Giuliani said. "It is really pretty astounding that we've got the highest level in the Dinkins administration appearing to know nothing of what they were doing with what was in fact the largest contracting-out project of the Dinkins administration, which is now cratered."
The Mayor countered: "Mr. Giuliani does not disappoint. One can pretty much guess what kind of comment he would make." Mr. Dinkins now has just over 10 weeks to see whether New Yorkers agree.


GRAPHIC: The contract awarded to Lockheed InformationManagement Services called for the company to assume all functions of the Parking Violations Bureau except hearings before administrative judges. Here are some highlights:
 
Responsibilities would have included ticket processing mailings, data entry and operating help centers.
 
There were plans to use new technologies to improve service. Instead of ticket information being entered into computers by hand, for instance, new tickets would have been scanned by computer. And an automated telephone information line would have allowed motorists to punch in their license plate numbers to learn how many tickets they had outstanding and how much they owed.
 
Lockheed promised to increase collections from unpaid tickets by $100 million.
 
STATISTICS
Chart: "PARKING SPACE: About the P.V.B. Contract"
Only half of all parking tickets issued in New York City are paid or settled in the motorist's favor. The rest go uncollected.
 
(Source: Parking Violations Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES CO; PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU (NYC) LOCKHEED INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOCKHEED INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES CO; PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PARKING; ETHICS; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES PARKING OFFENSES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); SCANDALS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); POLITICS (76%); RACE & RACISM (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (72%); LOBBYING (69%); CORRUPTION (68%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (61%); ETHICS (60%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



505 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: New Director Known as Skilled Manager

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

 BODY:
Carol O'Cleireacain once said that she majored in economics at the University of Michigan because it was the hardest subject she could find.
Ms. O'Cleireacain (pronounced oh-CLARE-eh-can), who was named New York City's interim Budget Director yesterday, replacing Philip R. Michael, is known by fellow administrators as an intense, ambitious and skillful manager, eager to tackle subjects that appear hopelessly arcane to others. 
 As Finance Commissioner, she earned praise for aggressively and swiftly making the administration of the city's tax codes more efficient. She also replaced about half of the senior staff members in her department and cut the overall size of her department by 500 employees.
Before joining the Dinkins administration in 1990, she spent 13 years as chief economist at the city's largest union, District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. During those years she also taught at the New School for Social Research and at Columbia University.
She also worked as chief economic adviser to the Rev. Jesse Jackson during his campaign for President in 1988.
Ms. O'Cleireacain, 47, was born in Chicago and raised in Skokie, Ill. She studied at the University of Michigan for a master's degree in economics and earned a Ph.D. at the London School of Economics.
When a reporter interviewed her for a profile last year, she said her hobbies were listening to Irish music and reading detective novels.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carol O'Cleireacain (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); COUNTIES (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); POLITICS (66%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (57%); TAX LAW (55%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH; MICHAEL, PHILIP R (DIR); O'CLEIREACAIN, CAROL (DIR) JESSE JACKSON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



506 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Unemployed Man, 22, Is Arrested in Four Sex Assaults in Queens

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES

 BODY:
An unemployed man from Queens was arrested on Wednesday in four sexual assaults since January that were primarily in Jamaica Estates. The police said the man was under suspicion in other cases.
The suspect, Gary Heeralal, 22 years old, who has worked as a livery driver, messenger and mechanic, was seized at his house in Jamaica and identified in a lineup, the police said. He faces charges of first-degree rape, first-degree sexual abuse, attempted sodomy, second-degree robbery and endangering the welfare of a child. 
 The assailant would "stalk his victim and then he would come up from behind once she had passed," Sgt. Rolf Mahler of the special victims squad said. "He was an opportunist basically waiting for someone to come along."
 
Daylight Attacks
 Many attacks were in daylight but were not seen because the assailant dragged the women to the sides or rears of houses.
The most serious was a rape on Feb. 25 of a 24-year-old in Jamaica Estates, the police said. The rapist grabbed her from behind at 182d Street and Aberdeen Road at 8:45 A.M. and also robbed her. The attacker was described as wearing a baseball cap and a light blue nylon jacket with "Dodgers" on the back.
The youngest victim, a 14-year-old, was assaulted at 3:15 P.M. on Feb. 9 at 196th Street and 56th Avenue in Bayside. Her assailant punched her, knocked her down and tried to pull down her pants but fled when she screamed.
 
Other Cases Investigated
 The first incident was on Jan. 14, when an 18-year-old was approached from behind on Henley Road, punched and fondled.
The most recent attack, on July 31, was in front of 176 Croydon Road. The attacker punched and knocked down a 28-year-old and fondled her.
Two other incidents that fit the pattern, said Sergeant Mahler, were attempted rapes on Jan. 24 on Highland Avenue and on Feb. 9 on Henley Road. The police said that they were investigating whether Mr. Heeralal was involved in those attacks, but that he has not been charged in them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SEX CRIMES SEX OFFENSES (91%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (91%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); ARRESTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ROBBERY (76%); CHILD ABUSE (73%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE; HEERALAL, GARY

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



507 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Gore Jumps Into the Job Of Cutting U.S. Waste

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 19

 BODY:
Strolling around a Pentagon courtyard filled with attentive Federal employees, Vice President Al Gore is holding another gripe session.
Microphone in hand, sweat soaking his blue shirt, Mr. Gore exhibits the moist concern of an afternoon talk show host, offering up equal doses of empathy and outrage. But instead of tales of faithless husbands and long-suffering wives, he is talking about overpriced steam traps (for heating systems) and overregulated ash trays, unwieldy personnel practices and all manner of bureaucratic slag. 
 In campaign-style trips to Government agencies and in short-hop, out-of-town investigative missions, Mr. Gore listens to and retells the same horror stories over and over and over. If ever a temperament was matched to a task, this is it.
The point of compiling these tales of woe has been grandly called reinventing government, a task Mr. Gore has been handed to fulfill a Clinton campaign pledge to cut waste and address the widely held perception that Washington does not work. If that were not enough, Mr. Gore, during the budget fight, was also saddled with the job of fulfilling optimistic promises to Congress to find big, quick spending cuts -- and he has to do all this while remaining the President's bashful sidekick.
 
Real Theory, Vague Hope
 On Sept. 7, the Vice President is scheduled to present his findings, discovered not only by him but also by 1,000 full- and part-time employees. On that day, reinventing government, or REGO, as it has been nicknamed, will become reality instead of theory, or at least a real theory instead of a vague hope.
It will also become the well for a lot of expectations and promises, and the focus of fierce resistance from many people in the Government whose programs are to be reinvented out of existence.
Mr. Gore's group is expected to recommend plans to combine departments, revamp rules governing the civil service and abolish commissions in a manner that remains faithful to the vision of David Osborne, an author whose writings have influenced Mr. Clinton and who has worked on the project.
In "Mandate for Change," a book published by the Progressive Policy Institute, an arm of the Democratic Leadership Council, Mr. Osborne recommended legislation to eliminate or consolidate about 500 grant programs, an increase in waivers to allow state and local governments to bypass Federal regulations, and the appointment of a Cabinet member in charge of overseeing the process.
 
Hard Task Lies Ahead
 But the Clinton Administration will be forced to handle another familiar problem the moment the ambitious plans are announced.
Mr. Clinton must push this latest initiative despite the inertia of bureaucrats, lawmakers and lobbyists satisfied with the status quo, while at the same time promoting important proposals on health care and international trade that opponents say will increase taxes and cost jobs.
"It's not that his Administration is going to stand or fall over whether the procurement system is streamlined," said William Kristol, a conservative Republican who was Vice President Dan Quayle's chief of staff. "But politically it's very important for him."
Clinton Administration officials hope that by providing evidence that they really intend to clean up the Government, Republicans can be wooed, Ross Perot quieted and debts repaid to senators, like Bob Kerrey, who provided the crucial budget vote in part on the basis of high REGO hopes. But Washington bookshelves are full of the dusty fruit of previous efforts to streamline the Government.
"Some describe it as pressure," Mr. Gore said in an interview in the characteristically cautious manner that makes him seem such a polar opposite to Bill Clinton. "We view it as opportunity."
At the least, it will be another opportunity for Mr. Gore to prove how central he has become to the Clinton Administration. Officials said Mr. Gore had played a central role in developing environmental policy, budget strategy, staff maneuvering and the politics of defending the President.
His constant proximity to the President has become a running White House joke. When the White House staff gave Mr. Clinton a birthday party recently, Mr. Gore gave Mr. Clinton a life-sized cardboard cut-out of himself, suggesting that the stiff figure could keep him from getting lonely as he set out on trips around the country without his trusty sidekick nearby.
It got a big laugh, which Mr. Gore liked. He has grown fond of mocking himself, and uses his own supposed shortcomings as a sort of humanizing shield to deflect criticism or questions he does not want to answer.
Such was the case when he was asked to say, prematurely, how much money the streamlining initiative will save. Self-consciously, he began to spin out jokes that the comedian Jay Leno has told about his stiffness and his dancing style. Quickly, his press secretary, hovering nearby, joined in.
Reminded that he had not answered the question about cost savings, he demurred.
"I've tried to avoid any numerical estimates on the savings that are coming out of this, other than to say I'm confident they will be significant," he said. And that is all he will say.
Mr. Gore and his aides have already begun to lower expectations about how sweeping the REGO plan will be. Mr. Clinton is expected to sign a number of executive orders aimed at reducing waste in the Government when he presents Mr. Gore's report on Sept. 7. But Mr. Gore also warned that some of the more far-reaching solutions might not occur for eight or 10 years.
Mr. Gore, who spent 16 years in Congress, seemed to notice a storm brewing in February, when he noted how few Republicans applauded the President's economic speech to a joint session of Congress.
"Political change has sometimes been described as the metaphor of a sailboat tacking against the wind," he told reporters the next day. "When one side comes up out of the water, it's a vivid image. That visual image and that metaphor reminds me very much of what happened in the chamber last night. I saw the mirror image of it during the beginning of the Reagan era, when one side of the chamber stands and applauds wildly and the other side sits with their hands folded in their laps.
"Visually the image is very much that of a great ship changing course, with one side out of the water and the other, sort of sinking."
 
Easy to Talk About
 Mr. Gore made those comments six months before he cast the tie-breaking votes on the President's economic package. Bipartisanship, he acknowledges, is a lot easier to talk about than it is to accomplish.
Among the props Mr. Gore uses to promote his effort to reinvent government is a moth-eaten old wool glove knitted from mohair produced in part because of Federal subsidies that protect goat farmers.
Mr. Clinton had proposed eliminating the mohair subsidy in his budget, but it survived, saved by two lawmakers from Texas, Senator Phil Gramm, a Republican, and Representative Charles W. Stenholm, a Democrat. Neither man voted for the budget, even with the subsidy restored.
"There is absolutely no justification for it whatsoever except politics," Mr. Gore said through gritted teeth.
But the gloves are not his favorite story.
Leaping out of the wing chair in his West Wing office to rifle through the props during an interview, he reached for a heavy glass ash tray.
"Not ash trays," he explained, flipping through a manual of purchasing guidelines. "Ash receivers, tobacco, desk-type."
In order to meet Government standards, he read, the ash tray must, when dropped, break into "a number of irregular pieces, not greater than 35, and it must not dice."
The Vice President breaks off, exasperated. "It's crazy!"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore has been given the awesome task of reinventing government by squeezing waste and excessive regulation out of the bureaucracy in Washington. He held a few of the briefing books assembled by his group of 1,000 people assigned to help in the research. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE CIVIL SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); WRITERS (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); BUDGETS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); TAX INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



508 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: GlenFed Stockholders Back Bailout, Ceding Most Equity

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
In the largest private-sector bailout of a distressed savings and loan, GlenFed Inc. said yesterday that it had completed a plan to raise $425 million in new capital. Shareholders of the ailing California savings institution narrowly approved the plan, under which they are to give up most of their interest in the company to keep it from being seized by Federal regulators.
GlenFed is the parent of Glendale Federal Bank, the country's fifth-largest savings institution, which faces a takeover by the Office of Thrift Supervision if it does not meet minimum capital standards by Sept. 30. The bank must raise its core capital from 2.65 percent of its assets to more than 4.5 percent. If this goes as intended, Glendale Federal would have core capital of 4.81 percent. 
 Analysts said GlenFed was fortunate that the deadline came at a time when many investors were eagerly buying new securities from banks.
"Six months ago, this deal would be have been difficult to complete," said Stephen J. Trafton, GlenFed's chairman. "And it was difficult enough as it was."
Under the complex plan, which was approved by only 53 percent of the shares outstanding, existing stockholders will receive 2 percent of the shares of the recapitalized company. Holders of GlenFed bonds and preferred stock will get a total of 18 percent of the shares, and the remaining 80 percent will be sold for $250 million.
In addition, the company last night sold $175 million in new convertible preferred stock to institutional investors.
The stock and bond holders will also receive warrants allowing them to buy shares of the company for $9 each. If all of these are exercised, it would raise $81 million of the new equity. GlenFed has received binding commitments from institutional investors, mainly mutual funds, to buy enough additional shares to raise the full $250 million.
Many analysts were astounded at the willingness of investors to put new money into a company that has not earned a profit since 1990 and will probably just break even this year.
"This deal is not cheap," said Gary Gordon, an analyst for Paine Webber, who said he would not recommend buying GlenFed shares at $9. He calculated that the stock would sell for about 70 percent of its fully diluted book value while similar companies sell for 50 percent of book value.
"Investors are starved for yield and they are willing to take unusual risks to get it," said an investment banker at a Wall Street firm.
Mr. Trafton said, however, that the ability of the company to raise the new capital was the best sign of a revival. "Despite the many vocal people who said this is a dead institution," he continued, "the recapitalization clearly speaks well for the perceived value of the company to investors and their perception of the economy and how that will affect us."
The transaction, which will merge the holding company into the bank, will have the effect of creating one new share of stock for every 10 existing shares. On the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, GlenFed shares closed unchanged at 93.75 cents.
Under the plan's provisions, existing shareholders will receive four new shares for each 100 they now own.
The convertible preferred stock, which was underwritten by the First Boston Corporation and Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Company of Washington, D.C., pays a dividend of 8.75 percent. That is far higher than the 6 percent rate of a recent similar issue by H. F. Ahmanson & Company, the nation's largest savings institution, which is in much better financial health than GlenFed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLN (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: GLENFED INC; OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION GLENFED INC (91%); GLENDALE FEDERAL BANK FSB (57%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (83%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GLENFED INC; OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (83%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (89%); BONDS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (65%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



509 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Decline 1.8%

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 19

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing claims for state unemployment benefits fell last week by 6,000, or about 1.8 percent, to 325,000, the Labor Department reported today. The figure compares with 331,000, a figure that was revised, for the previous week.
Private economists had expected the number of first-time claims to rise to 333,000 for the latest week, which ended on Saturday. 
 The Labor Department said its four-week moving average of initial claims also declined, falling to 347,500 from 354,250.
The number of people filing for unemployment compensation under a special Federal program slipped to 37,171 from 41,443.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STATES (US) JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



510 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 27; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Review/Dance;
In Celebration of Philadelphia

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
In a continuing celebration of Philadelphia and its artists, Lincoln Center Out of Doors presented three soloists and one company on Wednesday afternoon at the Fountain Plaza. All were winners of Pew Fellowships in the Arts.
To judge from the three solos that opened the program, dance in Philadelphia is a matter of quiet, rather abstracted musings on movement and its expressiveness. Steve Krieckhaus's "Entering and Spreading," performed to a peaceful hum of a score by Steve Berkowitz, offered a chance to watch a gifted artist work his way through the smallest curls, leans and lilting walks. The solo was a minimalist journey through time, with surprisingly strong dynamic changes and even a sense of building drama given the refinement and slow pace of the dance. 
 Mr. Krieckhaus is a dance poet whose medium is air. He does not jump through it, but rather establishes the feeling and buoyancy of air with the slight rise of a foot at the start of a pivot and with an even slighter tilt backward of the head, as if to let the sun and breeze caress his face for a moment.
Ilse Pfeifer has a compelling way of making everyday moves seem slightly comical as well as dancy. In "The Wondrous Endeavor of Isabella," she appeared to be a voyager through history and the world. But the solo, danced to music by Peter Price with a text spoken by Ms. Pfeifer, needed a much simpler setting and a better sound system.
In contrast, Karen McMahon looked like a caryatid in motion, sculptured, perhaps, by Henry Moore, in "Between Blue Rock." Set to music by Brian Eno, the solo was a thing of pleasingly blunt, thick body shapes. But it needed editing.
The program ended with a burst of vivid African music and dance from the Ibeji Performing Arts Company. The 12 beautifully costumed performers, who included four charming little girls, stood out for their precise and subtle way with rhythmic changes in "Lengjengo," an initiation dance, and "Econcon," a harvest and hunting tableau, from West Africa. Somehow, the sense of a village square and ceremony was created and the two adventurous and comic stilt-dancers featured in the closing segment had the audience as wide-eyed as children. Ibeji is directed by Hodari Banks and Jeannine Osayande.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Krieckhaus, a winner of a Pew Fellowship in the Arts, performed "Entering and Spreading" at Lincoln Center Out of Doors. (Lois Greenfield)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: IBEJI PERFORMING ARTS CO

ORGANIZATION: IBEJI PERFORMING ARTS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; PEW FELLOWSHIPS IN THE ARTS; FESTIVALS; LINCOLN CENTER OUT OF DOORS FESTIVAL FESTIVALS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DANCE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); DANCERS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER; KRIECKHAUS, STEVE; PFEIFER, ILSE; MCMAHON, KAREN

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



511 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Review/Rock;
Edgy, Cool Steely Dan Back on Stage and Tour

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
As timing goes, now would hardly seem to be the right moment for the first Steely Dan tour since 1974, which came to Madison Square Garden on Wednesday night. Pop music has veered sharply away from everything the group's core, Donald Fagen and Walter Becker, cared about most.
Instead of Steely Dan's cool, subtle, meticulous, elegantly ironic songs, matching oblique lyrics to harmonically ambiguous jazz chords, the rock mainstream has turned toward noise, simplicity and blunt impact. Where Mr. Becker and Mr. Fagen could agonize for months over perfecting a smooth transition, hip-hop has brought sudden jump-cuts instead. The band's influence has survived mostly in pop-jazz tunes that saunter along, half-heard, on background-music radio stations. Steely Dan camouflaged its subversive edge a little too well. 
 But the fact that there's nothing like Steely Dan around has built up a demand; its Madison Square Garden show sold out in 40 minutes to an audience that included few people under 30. Mr. Fagen, Steely Dan's singer, recently released an album, "Kamakiriad" (Warner Brothers), that was produced by Mr. Becker, and Mr. Becker is working on his own album and collaborating on songs again with Mr. Fagen. Mr. Becker even sang two new songs, revealing a plaintive voice that had been unheard since the band's first albums. Onstage, the revived Steely Dan doesn't care about being unfashionable; the band plays as if its private musical sphere is the only one worth inhabiting.
Mr. Becker, on guitar, and Mr. Fagen, on keyboards, have always been wise guys, and the show had some typically inside jokes; opening with an instrumental version of "The Royal Scam" (a reference to reunion tours in general?), pointing out that the hall wasn't the original Madison Square Garden (lest anyone carp that the band wasn't the original Steely Dan), introducing Mr. Fagen as Tristan Fabriani (the pseudonymous author of liner notes on the band's first album, "Can't Buy a Thrill" from 1972) and Mr. Becker as Gustav Mahler. It didn't play the song everyone might have expected: "Do It Again."
Hearing the songs again only underscored Steely Dan's range and finesse. Steely Dan wrote about aging ("Hey Nineteen"), psychotic killers ("Third World Man"), stock-market crashes ("Black Friday"), Orientalism ("Bodhisattva") and even more enigmatic subjects with telegraphic economy; the entire lyric of "Green Earrings" includes only 47 words, yet suggests a complex tale of romance and betrayal. ("The Fall of '92," a new Becker-Fagen song sung by Mr. Becker, was uncharacteristically blunt, calling the George Bush Administration "Nazis in Washington.") Mr. Becker and Mr. Fagen also prized musical ingenuity, making every detail gleam; the few sustained notes in the introduction to "Josie," for instance, create almost unbearable suspense, while "My Old School" proves that it's possible to steal from soul music without simply copying it.
The show was generous, with two sets adding up to more than two-and-a-half hours of music, including some instrumentals by the band. The touring group, with the guitarist Drew Zingg, has polished the songs in the style of the group's 1977 album "Aja" (MCA); the group includes three saxophonists who lace the songs with riffs and responses and take dramatic solos. Steely Dan concentrated on its later material, including most of "Aja," although only its 1974 masterpiece, "Pretzel Logic" (MCA), was unrepresented.
Many of the songs the band chose are based on the blues; verses vamp on the basic chords, then choruses take off on unlikely chromatic tangents. Songs from "Kamakiriad" also used that strategy, but with less distinctive melodies than the older songs, though the rhythms still cruised along. Steely Dan's principals were and are connoisseurs of grooves; each vamp, even at slow and medium tempos, was lifted by a different syncopation, with Peter Erskine on drums and Tom Barney on bass both providing muscle and finesse.
For most songs, the group recreated arrangements from the albums, stretching them with solos for Mr. Zingg, Warren Bernhardt on piano or the saxophonists (Cornelius Bumpus, Chris Potter and Bob Sheppard). But the band couldn't resist tampering with "Reelin' in the Years," from 1972; it moved the song's famous twin-guitar line to saxophones, and where that line had repeated the saxophones skewed it to imply stranger, jazzier harmonies. The audience roared approval for the change. It may be a reunion tour, but with Steely Dan the payoff is in craftsmanship, not nostalgia.
Steely Dan is to perform Tuesday and Wednesday at Jones Beach, and at the Meadowlands on August 27.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter Becker, left, and Donald Fagen of Steely Dan performing at Madison Square Garden on Wednesday night. (Paul G. Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: STEELY DAN (BAND) WARNER BROTHERS LICENSING (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STEELY DAN (BAND)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS; CONCERTS AND RECITALS JAZZ & BLUES (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSIC REVIEWS (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%); RADIO FORMATS (72%); RAP MUSIC (72%); RECORD RELEASES (72%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); WRITERS (61%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (50%); 

PERSON: PARELES, JON

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



512 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: Champion Freedom in Peru

 BODY:
Peru's present version of democracy is the most restricted in South America, thanks to President Alberto Fujimori's 1992 coup that abolished an elected congress and intimidated critical voices in the press. And its human rights record is also the continent's worst, as Mr. Fujimori's actions to eliminate judicial independence and abolish procedural safeguards compound problems generated by a notoriously abusive military.
Prisoners are often held incommunicado, tried in secrecy before faceless judges and denied effective legal representation. And while fewer people mysteriously "disappear" from streets and villages than in the recent past, many still do, often with apparent military involvement. 
 By withholding most foreign aid since the coup, America has armed itself with what could be an effective tool for expanding the scope of freedom in Peru. But the Administration's proposed human rights conditions for releasing much of that aid are disappointingly weak, settling mainly for promises of improvement rather than hard specifics.
Senator Patrick Leahy and Representative David Obey, who head the relevant foreign aid subcommittees in each house, rightly ask the Administration to press harder. The most important changes they seek concern imposing greater accountability on the armed forces and insuring access to independent international legal experts.
America ought not to simply walk away from Peru in disgust. There have been some positive changes since the coup, like continued economic reform, and some modest political liberalization, like the election of a constituent assembly. The U.S. also has an interest in engaging the Peruvian authorities on areas of mutual interest, like narcotics control.
But human rights must remain a central concern. Economic and political reform cannot thrive without the rule of law. And an unaccountable army cannot be a reliable partner in drug interdiction. America is the most powerful potential champion Peru's human rights victims can look to. The Clinton Administration should not let them down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: PERU (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU PERU (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; PERU-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); ARMIES (76%); DRUG POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); DRUG INTERDICTION (64%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FUJIMORI, ALBERTO (PRES) DAVE OBEY (57%); PATRICK LEAHY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



513 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: LETTER;
Raise Capital Gains Tax and Cut Deficit

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The extraordinary buoyancy of the stock market, now trading at its highest levels, gives the Government an opportunity to reduce the deficit without hampering economic growth.
Americans are estimated to hold something like $1.25 trillion in unrealized capital gains. The wealthy, who hold most of this, don't need to sell to pay the rent or other living expenses. They will hold on to their appreciated assets -- and pay no capital gains taxes, perhaps ever -- unless they have incentive to do so. 
 Lowering the capital gains tax does not provide the needed incentive, but an increase does. In 1978-82 the tax was cut in half, from 49 percent to 24 percent, but not much happened. Taxable gains rose slightly, sank, edged up again. But in 1986, when a tax rise from 20 percent to 28 percent was announced for the beginning of 1987, taxable gains more than doubled, from $200 billion in 1985 to $410 billion in 1986, as people took their long-held gains before the increase took effect.
Raising the rate does not hamper economic growth. During 1982-85 the tax was 20 percent, and capital gains tax revenue averaged $19.8 billion. However, after the raise to 28 percent in 1987, revenue increased 60 percent, averaging $31.8 billion in 1988-91. Since the 1987 increase, stock market prices and volume have also risen.
Raising the capital gains tax does not hamper economic growth because 97 percent of the action on Wall Street consists of trades of old shares, which is not an investment to economists. It is a transfer of an asset. No money goes to the company that issued the security, which helps explain why genuine investment in the United States lags so far behind such competitors as Japan and Germany.
What should be done is to announce today that the capital gains tax will increase to, say, 40 percent, effective next Jan. 1. This will trigger a wave of selling. If shareholders and owners of other types of assets cash in three-fourths of their $1.25 trillion unrealized capital gain, that creates $940 billion in taxable capital gains. At 28 percent, that could take a big bite out of the deficit.
 
HAROLD PEPPERELL
 
Tiburon, Calif., Aug. 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (51%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (51%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) CAPITAL GAINS TAX (97%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); TAX INCREASES (70%); 

PERSON: PEPPERELL, HAROLD

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



514 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: Letter;
Demise of Egyptian Tourism Is Exaggerated

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"Islamic Guerrillas Take to the Hills in Egypt" (news article, Aug. 12) states that, as a result of extremist activities, tourism to Egypt has been "wiped out." This is untrue. From January to June 1993, 1,197,753 foreigners visited Egypt, 74,695 from the United States. In June alone, 201,119 foreigners visited the country. 
 While these figures represent a decline of 19.4 percent over the same period last year, tourism revenue still contributes significantly to Egypt's economy. There is also some evidence that the tourism decline slowed between April and June over the same months a year ago.
We believe this is because increased security precautions have successfully halted incidents directed at tourists. In recent months there have been no attacks on tourists, and no foreigner has been killed on Egyptian soil since Feb. 26, the day that a bomb exploded at the World Trade Center.
 
ABDEL-MONEIM RASHAD
 
Regional Director
Egyptian Tourist Authority
New York, Aug. 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALEXANDRIA, EGYPT (90%); 

COMPANY: EGYPTIAN TOURIST AUTHORITY (55%); EGYPTIAN TOURIST AUTHORITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EGYPTIAN TOURIST AUTHORITY (55%); EGYPTIAN TOURIST AUTHORITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EGYPT EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALEXANDRIA, EGYPT (90%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TOURISM (88%); TERRORISM (88%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RELIGION (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (72%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); 

PERSON: RASHAD, ABDEL-MONEIM

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



515 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: BUDGET DIRECTOR OF NEW YORK CITY IS FORCED TO QUIT

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
The New York City Budget Director, Philip R. Michael, resigned at the request of the Mayor yesterday, one day after a city investigation determined that he had shown favoritism to a company seeking a $150 million contract to collect parking ticket fines.
Mayor David N. Dinkins announced Mr. Michael's resignation yesterday at City Hall after a tense day of meetings with his top staff to fashion a response to the report, which asserted that his administration gave the company, Lockheed Information Management Services, unusual time and attention and special treatment. 
 Mr. Dinkins, effectively accepting one critical finding of the report, said Mr. Michael had been "overzealous" in arguing forcibly within the administration for accepting the company's proposal to take over many responsibilities of the Parking Violations Bureau.
 
Swept Up by a Promise
 The report found no evidence of criminal activity by Mr. Michael or any other administration officials, but it suggested that they had been swept up by Lockheed's promise that it could vastly increase the city's collections of unpaid parking tickets.
In sacrificing Mr. Michael, Mr. Dinkins moved to quiet demands for action -- from City Council members and political opponents -- before they caused further damage to his administration or his re-election campaign. The Mayor, who canceled the contract Wednesday night, said he decided not to take any action now against three other high-ranking officials who were criticized to a lesser degree in the report, including his First Deputy Mayor, Norman Steisel.
After a late-night meeting with his closest political advisers, Mr. Dinkins requested Mr. Michael's resignation yesterday morning in a two-hour meeting in the Mayor's basement office at City Hall, officials said. Even as he ended Mr. Michael's tenure, the Mayor praised his skill in balancing the city's budgets during a bitter recession.
 
Effectiveness 'Compromised'
 "Phil Michael and I mutually agree that his ability to be as effective as we need in these very difficult fiscal times has been greatly compromised by the report of the Department of Investigation," Mr. Dinkins said. "But that ought not to diminish the contributions that he has made."
Mr. Dinkins would not elaborate on his decision, but his aides said he was worried that Mr. Michael's credibility had been so badly damaged by the report, which suggested that he had been less than forthright with investigators on some questions, that he could no longer be effective as budget director. The aides added that it was a sensitive time because of the election, but that the Mayor would have made the same decision in a different year.
For his part, Mr. Michael said he accepted the Mayor's judgment that he could no longer be effective, but denied he had done anything illegal and continued to defend his actions.
"I did nothing wrong," Mr. Michael said. "My only sin was trying to raise money for the city of New York. I agree that is exactly what I did and I wished I had tried to raise more."
 
Steisel Is Also CriticizedXxx
 The First Deputy Mayor, Norman Steisel, was also criticized in the report, which said he failed to rigorously study the question of whether the city should have private companies do the the work of the Parking Violations Bureau in the first place.
Mr. Michael's decision to step down came on a day when some City Council members and the Mayor's political opponents called for a wider shake-up in the administration.
The Republican-Liberal candidate for Mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, quickly seized on the report as a political weapon, saying it was evidence of poor management and ethical lapses in Mr. Dinkins's administration. He called on the Mayor to immediately relieve Mr. Steisel of his duties, including the huge survey of asbestos in the city's schools that began two weeks ago.
"With this cloud hanging over Norman Steisel, I would imagine the Mayor is going to have to remove him for a time during the asbestos removal and put someone else there until these questions are cleared up," Mr. Giuliani said on a morning talk show. "It is really pretty astounding that we've got the highest level in the Dinkins administration appearing to know nothing of what they were doing with what was in fact the largest contracting-out project of the Dinkins administration."
To offset the attack from his Republican opponents, Mr. Dinkins and his aides have tried to pin some of the responsibility for the affair on Mr. Giuliani, arguing that when Mr. Giuliani was a United States Attorney in 1987, he wrote a letter to the city's lawyers that gave Lockheed Information a clean bill of health.
In fact, in the letter, Mr. Giuliani merely gave his approval to a settlement of a civil lawsuit the city had reached with the Lockheed subsidiary -- which was then known as Datacom Systems -- because company executives had cooperated with Federal prosecutors. The letter does not refer to whether the city should do business with the company.
Carol O'Cleireacain, who has been the city Finance Director since 1990, will take over as Budget Director immediately, Mr. Dinkins said.
Mr. Michael, 53, was appointed budget director in 1990 after serving for a year as the executive director of the State Financial Control Board. A native of San Francisco who began his public career as a trial lawyer in the United States Justice Department in Washington, Mr. Michael came to New York in 1972 as the Deputy Commissioner for Trials in the Police Department. He was appointed a deputy commissioner in the Department of Investigation in 1978 and Finance Commissioner in 1989.
Mr. Dinkins reached his decision after a night and a day of tense and anguished meetings with his closest aides while reporters clustered outside his office in a phalanx of cameras, notepads and inquiring faces.
Mr. Michael arrived at the Mayor's office at 10:30 A.M. and was closeted with Mr. Dinkins for more than two hours. He strode out of City Hall at about 12:30 P.M., refusing to comment to reporters.
Lockheed Management Information Services is a business unit of the Lockheed Corporation, a major manufacturer of aerospace equipment and military contractor that is based in California. Lockheed says the unit is a small part of its portfolio of businesses, accounting for less than 13 percent of its sales and less than 3 percent of its profits in 1992.
 
'Showed Favoritism'
 Investigators said that Mr. Michael "showed favoritism" to the Lockheed subsidiary by meeting repeatedly with the company's executives, reporting back to them about talks among top city officials and arguing forcefully within the administration that the city should shift much of the Parking Violations Bureau to private business to save money.
Investigators also accused Mr. Michael of trying to coerce the Transportation Commissioner, Lucius J. Riccio, to grant Lockheed Services a small, related contract. Mr. Michael, the report said, told Mr. Riccio he would restore some cuts to the Transportation Department budget if Mr. Riccio approved the contract.
While it did not suggest there were bribes or criminal activity, the report harshly questioned the decisions of several other top Dinkins aides that ended up tilting the competition in favor of the company. The report found substantial evidence that Ellen Baer, chief of staff to the First Deputy Mayor, violated the City Charter when she was interviewed for a job with Lockheed while taking part in talks with other city officials about the drafting of the contract proposal.
The report also determined that Mr. Steisel had made the crucial decision to broaden the bid specifications to include contracting of other operations besides collecting payments, which the report said gave Lockheed an edge in the bidding. Mr. Steisel made the decision in June 1991, a day after meeting with two influential lobbyists for the company, James Capalino, a former aide to Mayor Edward I. Koch, and Basil A. Paterson, a close friend of Mr. Dinkins.
 
Lockheed Also Assailed
 The report, which followed a five-month investigation, also suggested that Lockheed Services had failed to disclose to the city that three current officials of the company had been involved in conversations about bid-rigging at the Parking Violations Bureau in 1985.
Investigators also found that Lockheed had misled the city when it certified that it had not tried to discourage other companies from bidding. In fact, the report says, Lockheed had reached a broad agreement in 1989 with another company, American Management Systems, that in effect took it out of the competiton.
Since acquiring Datacom Systems in 1984, and swiftly being engulfed in New York's scandal, Lockheed Management Information Services has grown rapidly as a provider of computerized services to state, local and Federal agencies. The company said yesterday that it had 130 government contracts, for work in processing water bills, family support payments and other government programs.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 26, 1993, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Friday and a picture caption on Saturday about Carol O'Cleireacain, who was appointed to replace New York City's Budget Director, misstated her title. She is to be Budget Director, not interim Budget Director.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip R. Michael, who resigned as New York City budget director, after meeting yesterdaywith Mayor David N. Dinkins. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES CO ; PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU (NYC) NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%); LOCKHEED INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOCKHEED INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES CO ; PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; ETHICS; CONTRACTS; PARKING; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES ; FINES (PENALTIES) CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); PARKING OFFENSES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); MAYORS (90%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); ETHICS (74%); POLITICS (66%); EVIDENCE (53%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; MICHAEL, PHILIP R (DIR); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); STEISEL, NORMAN (DEPUTY MAYOR) ; O'CLEIREACAIN, CAROL (DIR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993



516 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Agrees to Renew Talks on Plans for New York Coliseum

BYLINE: By JEANNE B. PINDER

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority told the Dinkins administration yesterday that it has accepted the city's suggestion for further talks over the New York Coliseum development, which has been stalled by disputes over the project's size.
In a letter to Mayor David N. Dinkins, the chairman of the M.T.A., Peter E. Stangl, agreed to meet again with the site's developer, Mortimer B. Zuckerman. 
 But he also said he was "surprised and disappointed" that the Mayor's Deputy for Finance and Economic Development, Barry F. Sullivan, had in an earlier letter to Mr. Stangl accused Mr. Stangl of being unwilling to "engage in constructive dialogue" with the developer.
Mr. Zuckerman, who bought The Daily News in January, has had an option to develop the site at 59th Street and Columbus Circle since 1985, through his company Boston Properties. But his plans were delayed by court challenges until last September, when the downturn in New York's real-estate market made his original plans for the site impractical. Since September, Mr. Zuckerman has been talking with the M.T.A. and with city officials about cutting the development's size and cutting the price that he would pay for the land from the 1985 level.
 
'Less Favorable to the City'

 Because of the complicated ownership arrangement for the 3.4-acre plot that now holds an exhibition hall, office building and parking ramp, the city and the M.T.A. must both sign off on any agreement.
Mr. Stangl, responding yesterday to Mr. Sullivan's letter, wrote to Mayor Dinkins that the latest Zuckerman proposal, made in early August, "is even less favorable to the city and the M.T.A. than the version we were negotiating in June."
Mr. Stangl's letter said he had objections to the new Zuckerman plan, which he said included reducing the purchase price below what he said is the site's current value to the M.T.A., and breaking it into a two-stage project that could delay revenues for the M.T.A.
Mr. Stangl agreed to Mr. Sullivan's suggestion that further negotiations proceed with the aid of Vincent Tese,Commissioner of the State Department of Economic Development. He also urged the city to set a closing date for the sale to "stimulate serious negotiations" and added: "I do not believe that the city should allow Boston Properties to extend its free option on this site indefinitely at the expense of farepayers and taxpayers."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BXP (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; COLUMBUS CIRCLE (NYC) UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK COLISEUM; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); 

PERSON: PINDER, JEANNE B; STANGL, PETER E (CHMN); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



517 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-4
 
NEW PLAN OFFERED ON BOSNIA
Mediators presented a draft peace accord on Bosnia and gave the factions 10 days to consider it. The Presidents of Serbia and Croatia said they backed it, but the Bosnian leadership criticized it. 1
Bosnian Croats denied an aid convoy access to a Muslim area. 4 
MEDICAL DEBATE IN BRITAIN
The case of a smoker who died of a heart attack after his doctors put off operating until he quit smoking has become the focus of a fierce debate across Britain. 4
 
DEMJANJUK DEPORTATION DELAYED
Israel's chief justice blocked deportation of John Demjanjuk, acquitted of being the Nazi death-camp guard known as "Ivan the Terrible, giving groups pressing for new charges two weeks to make their case. 3
 
ISRAEL-LEBANON BORDER QUIET
Although officials said Israel is likely to avenge the deaths of nine Israeli soldiers in southern Lebanon, the border was quiet, confirming that Israel did not plan immediate large-scale reprisals. 3
 
The toll of Brazilian Indians dead in a miners' attack is over 30. 3
Tokyo Journal: broader view of World War II gains ground. 2
 
National 5-8
 
JUMP ON HEALTH PLAN
Without waiting for details of President Clinton's health plan, hospitals, doctors and insurance companies are already forming the health care networks that Mr. Clinton is likely to propose. 1
 
NEW RURAL GHETTOS FORM
Small towns that were once economically stable and racially mixed are becoming pockets of poverty and overwhelmingly black, prompting some experts to say a new kind of ghetto is evolving. 1
 
PROBLEMS WITH FLIERS CASE
The Navy and Marine Corps are having trouble turning the accusations of sexual harassment at an aviators' convention into criminal charges or administrative punishment. 1
 
TWINS SEPARATED; ONE DIES
Doctors in Philadelphia separated 7-week-old Siamese twin girls, but, as had been predicted, one girl had to to give her life so her sister could have a chance. 1
 
INJURED DOCTOR RETURNS TO CLINIC
An abortion doctor who was shot outside his Wichita, Kan., clinic on Thursday returned to work, and an Oregon woman was held in an Oklahoma City jail on charges of attempted murder. 5
 
PAYING FOR THE ALTMAN CASE
Since Robert Altman was acquitted of charges that he helped deceive banking regulators about the true ownership of a Washington bank, a new debate has arisen over who will pay his huge legal bill. 5
 
WOMEN WIN TORTURE CASE
Three women won their case against the Atlanta hotel bellhop they said was the man who had them tortured in Ethiopia 15 years ago. 8
 
The California Supreme Court refuses to stay an execution. 7
Beliefs: Was the Pope's message misunderstood? 7
Hampton Beach Journal: A resort town gets a bit racier. 5
Metro Digest 21
 
MORE FIREPOWER FOR OFFICERS
New York City police officers will begin this fall to phase out their .38-caliber revolvers for 9-millimeter semiautomatic weapons, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said yesterday. 1
 
END OF A TRAGIC JOURNEY
About New York: The return of four skeletons to Greenland ends the shameful tale of a group of Eskimos who were brought to the Museum of Natural History as specimens by the Arctic explorer Robert E. Peary. 1
 
Business Digest 35
 
Arts/Entertainment 9-14, 45
Brenda Russell at Bottom Line. 9
Los Angeles County art museum chief resigns. 9
Gain for Russian Museum. 9
Public Radio's new chief. 45
Film: "Surf Ninjas." 9
Public Theater to show recent Italian movies. 14
Music: New works by Relache. 14
TV: "Mysteries of the Deep." 45
 
Obituaries 26
Milton Weinick, co-founded an accounting firm.
Dr. Wilma Thompson Donahue, an expert in the psychology of aging.
 
Sports 27-31
Baseball: Yankees beat Royals. 27
Mariners set back Blue Jays. 28
Ratings are low in San Diego. 29
Mets schedule meeting with Coleman. 29
Column: Moran on baseball in the daytime. 27
Football: Giants-Jets rivalry set for renewal. 27
Golf: Kendall shines at International. 31
Horse Racing: Five victories in one day for Krone. 27
Wide open race in Travers. 29
Sports People 30
Tennis: Rain washes out Agassi versus Lendl. 31
Track and Field: Welshman sets record in hurdles. 27
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 18-19
Editorials
The sound of snoring at Empire.
Too many costly aircraft carriers.
A small price for big art.
Too timid on the police corps.
Letters
Russell Baker: Heidi, Joe and the catnip.
Daniel Jonah Goldhagen: Treblinka's other monster.
Richard Miniter: Regulated senseless in New York City.
Stanley S. Litow, Robin Willner: Do we really need five school districts?
Bridge 13
Chronicle 20
Crossword 13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); ISRAEL (94%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); LEBANON (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); WICHITA, KS, USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); ISRAEL (94%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); LEBANON (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); WICHITA, KS, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DEMJANJUK WAR CRIMES CASE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); HOSPITALS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); SMOKING (76%); MURDER (76%); ACQUITTAL (75%); DEPORTATION (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); WORLD WAR II (74%); TORTURE (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); DEATHS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); NAVIES (71%); SMOKING CESSATION (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SLUM DWELLINGS (69%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (68%); INSURANCE (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (63%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (63%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (60%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%); HOTEL STAFF (60%); POLICE FORCES (55%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN DEMJANJUK (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



518 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1729 words

HEADLINE: Deep South and Down Home, But It's a Ghetto All the Same

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JONESTOWN, Miss.

 BODY:
This forlorn little town of rickety shotgun shacks and 1,467 people, surrounded by the table-top-flat cotton fields of northwest Mississippi, has the spent air of a place that history has passed by.
But throughout this forgotten corner of America and in the other poorest parts of the South, hamlets like Jonestown are writing a bitter epilogue to integration. Small towns that were once economically stable and racially mixed are becoming pockets of poverty and overwhelmingly black -- 75 to 100 percent so.
 
100 With Jobs
 The pattern is so striking that some experts say a new kind of ghetto is evolving: rural instead of urban, but sharing many conditions of the inner city: white flight, black poverty, a disappearing job base, reliance on government welfare payments, rising crime and social isolation. 
 The phenomenon is taking some of the luster off one of the great success stories of the South, its rising tide of black elected officials. Almost 20 percent of black elected officials nationwide come from Mississippi and Alabama alone. But many of them have come to political power only to inherit the dust of economic abandonment.
"You're in charge, but how much can you do?" said Bobbie Walker, who recently lost her bid for re-election after four years as mayor here. "We have 1,476 people, but we may have 100 who actually work. Almost all the stores have closed. The town is basically broke. People expect miracles because there are black people in office, but this town is so strapped, and the tax base is so small, you can barely stay afloat."
What is happening in towns like this is happening in small towns across America. But here, in the upper reaches of the Mississippi River Delta, it is has a peculiarly Southern twist, one that largely reflects the South's historic concentrations of poor blacks, most of them dependent on an agricultural economy that no longer needs as many workers because of decades of increasing mechanization.
But equally striking is how many of the issues raised in isolated towns like Jonestown reflect the national debate over the urban ghettos, particularly the role of racism in creating and sustaining them, and the future of welfare and other programs for the poor.
Charles S. Aiken, a geographer at the University of Tennessee, described the phenomenon in a 1990 paper on an area south of here. "A new type of black ghetto has emerged in the Yazoo Delta since 1960," he wrote. "To many whites, the ghetto towns have become nonplaces, areas of black population that are to be isolated and ignored, just as the black residential areas of municipalities traditionally were isolated and ignored."
 
Years of Inequality
 The Mississippi Delta has always been based on inequality. The fortunes of the region's planters and white working class were supported for most of its history by the labor of black slaves, then of black sharecroppers. Until integration, whites controlled all the towns, except for Mound Bayou and Winstonville, which were all black.
In Jonestown, blacks outnumbered whites even before integration. The 1950 census showed that of the town's 741 people, two-thirds were black. But, particularly after the schools integrated in the 1960's, young whites began to leave, either for big cities like Memphis or Jackson or the larger towns like Clarksdale or Cleveland. No whites moved in to replace them, and the white population began to dwindle.
Meanwhile, the black population has steadily increased, though economic opportunity has not. Today there is only a handful of residents in what is left of the white section of town; the population is 95 percent black, primarily the elderly and young women with children. No one can imagine the balance swinging back.
The figures vary from town to town, but the trend is similar throughout most of the rural Delta. There is Glendora, 51 percent black in 1950, 90 percent black now; Friars Point, 66 percent black in 1950, 90 percent now; Shelby, 62 percent black in 1950, 87 percent black now. In 1950, the small town of Sledge had the smallest percentage of blacks in the Delta, 19 percent. Now blacks make up 56 percent of the town.
 
The Old South Rising?
 To many blacks, the rural ghetto is the racism of the Old South in a new form, now employing economic deprivation instead of Jim Crow laws.
"There's racism all over the United States, but it's not as systematically oriented and as ideologically grounded in religion and Southern tradition as it is here in Mississippi," said Bruce Williams, a sociologist at the University of Mississippi who has studied the small Delta towns. "The rural elite is interested in maintaining the status quo, and that's it."
In fact, except for the general decay, the economic hierarchy in Jonestown is not much different from what it was during segregation. The only major business in town is the Delta Oil Mill, a farmers cooperative that produces $22 million in cottonseed oil a year. All the clerical and supervisory jobs are held by whites, and many of the laboring jobs are held by blacks. There are still blacks working in the cotton fields but none at the small Jonestown branch of the Sunburst Bank.
What has changed most is the degree to which Jonestown exists almost solely because of social welfare programs.
"If you're not old enough for Social Security, or sick enough for S.S.I., or don't have children for A.F.D.C., you're left out in the rain," said Mrs. Walker, referring to Federal relief programs. "There's nothing else here."
 
Other Forces Involved
 But many people here, black and white alike, see something more complicated than just racism at work. Small towns are withering on the vine around the country, and in the battle to attract jobs, few places have less resources to work with than impoverished, poorly educated, rural black towns like this one.
"I think race may enter into it," said State Senator Willie Simmons, who is black and who represents part of the Delta, "but race is probably not as great a factor as it is with the location and the lack of resources. These small communities don't have the resources to compete with larger communities."
And if racism, first in the form of slavery and then of the legalized segregation of Jim Crow, is ingrained in the history here, many say that that alone is no longer what's holding the town back.
Quincy Bryant is the last white store owner in Jonestown and as such, from a battered green recliner, presides over the last reminder of the town's more prosperous past. His business is called Q&B Used Furniture, but it is really an old-time general store where Mr. Bryant spends his days selling Snickers bars and Super Soakers, nails and toothpaste, underwear and wigs, bantering amiably with his customers and doing magic tricks for the children who congregate there.
 
White Family Leaves
 Mr. Bryant raised his six children in Jonestown, but he now lives in Clarksdale, and all his children live elsewhere. He is committed enough to the town that he has promised to buy pillows and drapes from a fledgling company Mrs. Walker is trying to get off the ground. But he said the crime and social decay in the town would dissuade almost any businessman from locating here. He said youths recently broke into his store and stole $2,800 in merchandise. Now he has installed a new alarm system for $1,000.
"This used to be a nice little town," he said. "Now if something isn't done about the crime, there isn't going to be a town. People have been through, looking at putting in businesses, but if you wanted to put in a 7-Eleven here, you'd have to have a night watchman on duty 24 hours a day. People look the town over and they get scared."
The grim straits of many of the towns evoke all the racial stereotypes of the old South. Many whites are not reluctant to take note of the towns' decline as blacks have taken control.
"This is a town of 200 whites and 2,400 welfare recipients," said David Favi, the owner of David's Diner in nearby Shelby. "They're not interested in working. All they care about is the welfare check."
 
Town's Own Problem's
 To many, what is happening is one more cruel twist in a long history of black deprivation in one of the poorest parts of America. But if there is something perverse in blotting out history and blaming blacks for the ills of the Delta, many blacks agree that some of the most grievous wounds are now being inflicted from within.
Donal Lee Burnett, owner of the Jonestown Service Station, a combination service station, fishing shop and barbecue joint, is one of the few black businessmen in Jonestown. He takes the existence of racism as a given. But when asked about the problems of Jonestown, he begins with the 14-year-old mothers, the 30-year-old grandmothers and the family decay he sees all around him. He knows Jonestown needs jobs, but he does not think economic opportunity alone is the answer.
"People have to take responsibility for the community they live in," he said. "I don't see that here. If businesses came here and people aren't responsible enough to work, you're not going to get anywhere. You have too many people waiting for the welfare checks. If you were lying in bed, and someone kept bringing you food, so you never had to get up, what would you do? You'd probably just lie there."
There are glimpses of hope throughout the Delta, like the nuns from Minnesota who have opened a health clinic here, or the home-building by Habitat for Humanity here and elsewhere. To wander into the town of Ruleville and see the Ruleville Beautification Committee, including a white descendant of the town's founder and a group of blacks and whites planting periwinkles along the town's main street, is to be reminded of how much real change has occurred and how hard some people are working to keep their towns alive.
But many people assume there are only two prospects for towns like this. The first is that they will wither and die. The second, perhaps even more dire, is that they will become permanent pockets of blight and despair.
"Martin Luther King said he wanted to go to the mountaintop," 64-year-old Bertha Saxton said as she stood among a crowd of young men milling in front of a local grocery in the midday heat. "But it seems every time we get near the mountaintop, someone's always pushing us back down."

GRAPHIC: Photos: With few jobs and an almost nonexistent tax base, Jonestown, Miss., has become one of many rural ghettos, where poor blacks are trapped in economic isolation. For families like this one, prospects are bleak (pg. 1); In Jonestown, Miss., a town with few jobs, Donal Lee Burnett is one of the more fortunate. He owns a store, but he is not hopeful. "People have to take responsibility for the community they live in," he said. "I don't see that here." Bobbie Walker, who was recently voted out as mayor, said, "We have 1,476 people, but we may have 100 who actually work." (pg. 6) (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)
 
Map/Graph: "Changes in Mississippi's Rural Delta" shows black population of as percentage of total population for each town. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; SOUTHERN STATES (US); JONESTOWN (MISS) UNITED STATES (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS (IN US); RURAL AREAS; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); TRENDS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); POLITICS (66%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



519 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Charles Baldwin, 91, Ex-U.S. Ambassador

 BODY:
Charles F. Baldwin, a former United States Ambassador to Malaya, died at home in Cockeysville, Md., on Wednesday. He was 91.
The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest, his family said. 
 In 1961, President Kennedy named him Ambassador to Malaya, encompassing what is now Malaysia and Singapore. After retiring as ambassador in 1964 he served several years as the diplomat in residence at the University of Virginia.
His career in government began in 1927 in the Commerce Department. He served in the automotive division and Shipping Board Bureau and as the United States trade commissioner in Sydney, Australia.
In World War II he served as a Navy intelligence officer in London, reaching the rank of captain.
Joining the State Department in 1945, he held posts in the embassies in Chile, Norway and Italy. He was economic counselor in London, Consul General in Singapore and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Economic Affairs.
In 1955, during a break in government service, Mr. Baldwin was a European officer in the Motion Picture Export Association of America.
Mr. Baldwin was born in Zanesville, Ohio. He grew up in Washington and graduated from Georgetown University.
His wife of 52 years, Helen, died four years ago.
His survivors include a son, C. Stephen Baldwin of Manhattan; a sister, Cordelia Baldwin of Washington, and eight grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MALAYSIA (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); CHILE (79%); NORWAY (79%); ITALY (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (55%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); MOTION PICTURE EXPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); MOTION PICTURE EXPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MALAYSIA (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); CHILE (79%); NORWAY (79%); ITALY (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); WORLD WAR II (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); NAVIES (69%); 

PERSON: BALDWIN, CHARLES F JOHN F KENNEDY (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



520 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Hunger Strikers Allowed to Ship Supplies to Cuba

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DALLAS, Aug. 21

 BODY:
A group of ministers who have staged a three-week hunger strike in a school bus along the Texas-Mexico border to protest the United States trade embargo against Cuba won permission today to deliver supplies to the island nation.
The agreement was reached after two days of talks between representatives of Pastors for Peace and the Federal Government, said Michelle Smith, a spokeswoman for the Treasury Department. 
 "We are pleased to have been able to work constructively with the Pastors for Peace to resolve the situation on the border at Laredo, Tex.," Ms. Smith said in a telephone interview from Washington.
Fourteen protesters began a hunger strike on July 30 at a customs station on the Texas-Mexico border inside a school bus that customs agents had impounded. The bus was part of a 95-vehicle convoy carrying about 100 tons of supplies bound for Cuba. The other vehicles had entered Mexico without incident the day before.
Customs Service officials said the bus had been impounded because the people on board had declared it an export in violation of the 33-year-old trade embargo against Cuba.
The Rev. Lucius Walker Jr., who left the bus on Thursday to begin negotiating with the Government, was not available for comment, but Federal officials said they believed the agreement meant that his hunger strike was over.
 
Shipments via Mexico
 Organizers said the convoy was carrying computers, medicine, wheelchairs, school supplies and other materials for Cuba. The supplies were to be shipped to Cuba from Mexico, which unlike the United States has no restrictions on such exports.
In announcing the agreement, the department said it had been assured that the World Council of Churches would oversee delivery of the supplies as humanitarian aid to a church in Havana.
Customs agents inspected the bus at the border in preparation for crossing.
"The bus is going to be on the way to Havana, Cuba," Ms. Smith said.
During the hunger strike, sympathizers have held demonstrations in 36 cities.
The pastors' group, which is based in Minnesota, contends the trade embargo against Cuba is wrong because Washington does not enforce similar sanctions on other nations that have worse human-rights records.
The protest came at a time when Cuba's leader, Fidel Castro, has stepped up calls for an end to the embargo. Mr. Castro, whose nation is trying to stave off economic collapse, has said he would like to enter direct negotiations with the United States to end the boycott.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (96%); CUBA (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PASTORS FOR PEACE; CUSTOMS SERVICE (US)

ORGANIZATION: PASTORS FOR PEACE; CUSTOMS SERVICE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA; TEXAS; MEXICO UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (96%); CUBA (96%); TEXAS, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; HUNGER STRIKES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); BOYCOTTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); RELIGION (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



521 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: HEALTH INDUSTRY IS MOVING TO FORM SERVICE NETWORKS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20

 BODY:
Without waiting for details of President Clinton's health plan, hospitals, doctors and insurance companies around the country are already linking up to form the health care networks that Mr. Clinton is likely to propose as the foundation of a new medical system.
The health care market, not the Government, is the driving force behind these networks, which are being formed in New York and many other metropolitan areas. But doctors, hospital executives and insurers say they are also trying to position themselves for success under any legislation Congress might pass in the next 15 months. 
 The competition to establish these networks is being intensified by the belief that whoever moves first will be able to profit by controlling the shape of the new health system.
 
A Fixed Price
 In addition, many doctors have concluded that they will be left in the cold, without a significant source of patients or income, if they do not join a network. Insurance companies, fearing that Mr. Clinton's health plan will eliminate their ability to make money by selecting only the healthiest customers, are purchasing hospitals, clinics and doctors' practices so they can deliver and manage care, rather than just finance it.
The new networks typically offer a full spectrum of care, from treatment of minor infections to open-heart surgery, for a fixed price. Consumers, in theory, will no longer receive their care from a multitude of unconnected services.
The new networks resemble health maintenance organizations in some respects, but they are bigger than the typical H.M.O. These huge new conglomerates may include outpatient clinics, freestanding doctors' offices, nursing homes, hospices, home health agencies, retail pharmacies, drug treatment centers and medical equipment suppliers, as well as hospitals.
With nearly 40 percent of hospital beds empty, the American Hospital Association is exhorting its members to form "community care networks." The association's biweekly magazine, published since 1936 under the title "Hospitals," changed its name in June to add the phrase "& Health Networks."
 
'Integrated Delivery Network'
 Dr. James S. Todd, executive vice president of the American Medical Association, said, "In recent months, there has been an unprecedented wave of health care industry mergers, acquisitions and consolidations." He warned that this trend may restrict patients' ability to choose their doctors and the doctors' freedom to make medical decisions -- a concern shared by some consumer advocates.
Just this month eight hospitals in the St. Louis area, all either Roman Catholic or Baptist, announced that they were forming an "integrated delivery network" to cut costs and reduce duplication of services.
A model of the new vertically integrated organization is the network being formed by the Henry Ford Health System in Detroit, Mercy Health Services and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Michigan.
The Michigan network, which includes at least 13 hospitals, will offer health care to groups of 100 employees or more for a fixed payment averaging $2,400 a year for an individual and $5,600 for a family. It promises that premiums will not rise more than 5 percent a year in 1994 or 1995.
New York Hospital, the main teaching hospital of Cornell University Medical College, is forming a network that includes Booth Memorial Medical Center and the Silvercrest Nursing Home in Queens, the Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn, and the Hospital for Special Surgery and Gracie Square psychiatric hospital in Manhattan.
 
Fee-for-Service Option
 George A. Vecchione, executive vice president of New York Hospital, and Stephen S. Mills, the head of its network, said the organization would offer care to employers in the New York City area, New Jersey and Connecticut. Employees can enroll in a health maintenance organization or get care in the customary way, on a fee-for-service basis.
These networks are just like the ones President Clinton wants to establish all over the country. Under his plan, initially outlined in the 1992 campaign, large purchasing groups, representing hundreds of thousands of consumers, would buy health care from large corporate networks of doctors and hospitals.
Many states, including Minnesota, Washington, Florida and Vermont, have recently passed laws encouraging formation of these networks, known as accountable health plans or integrated service networks.
Dr. Sidney M. Wolfe, director of Ralph Nader's Health Research Group, said the proliferation of networks could harm consumers because insurance companies, in selecting doctors for their networks, often emphasize cost over quality.
The Medical Society of the District of Columbia is preparing a lawsuit against the local Blue Cross and Blue Shield plan to challenge the exclusion of hundreds of doctors from a network that serves many Federal employees. Dr. Harold Weiss, president of the society, said that the selection criteria, though secret, "appear to emphasize economic issues rather than quality."
Elsewhere, doctors complain that hospitals are putting pressure on them to join networks in which hospitals have the upper hand. Dr. Lee H. McCormick, a family practitioner in Pittsburgh, said: "There are a lot of good reasons for hospitals and physicians to work together. But hospitals are rushing in, taking charge, intimidating the physicians."
With improvements in medical technology, many procedures formerly done in hospitals are now done in doctors' offices. "Hospitals do not have patients," said Dr. McCormick. "They only have physicians who take care of patients. That's why hospitals are approaching physicians to work together; they have to. Their survival depends on it. Hospitals now need physicians more than we need them."
Rather than work for networks run by hospitals or insurance companies, doctors are organizing their own networks in some states. The South Carolina Medical Association is forming a statewide network of doctors that will negotiate contracts with employers and accept responsibility for controlling their health costs. The Medical Society of the State of New York is forming a similar network.
In South Carolina, the doctors will negotiate an annual health care spending goal for each company. If actual costs are below that goal, the doctors will share savings with the company. If costs exceed that amount, the doctors will forgo a portion of the income they would otherwise receive.
Hospitals have been merging and diversifying their activities for years. But the latest trend is different because the new networks are bigger and more tightly knit than the loose affiliations of the past. In addition, they are responding to new demands. Employers, the main source of health insurance coverage for workers in the United States, are encouraging formation of these networks so they can negotiate a single contract for the care of all their employees at a guaranteed price.
The trend toward networks of doctors and hospitals has probably gone further in Southern California than in any other part of the country. "Solo practitioners are getting to be increasingly rare out here," said Robert H. Calverley, a spokesman for the Los Angeles County Medical Association.
Dr. Ben Shwachman, an anesthesiologist and lawyer who is president of the Los Angeles association, said: "You can't just hang up a shingle, open the door and get patients any more. You have to get contracts, and contracts go through huge conglomerates formed by hospitals, physicians or insurance companies."
Dr. Shwachman said, "This trend has created a class of millionaire entrepreneur-physicians who own and operate the networks." In transactions between networks and insurance companies, he said, "the patients are moved around like cattle," even though they may receive good care.
Michael D. Bromberg, executive director of the Federation of American Health Systems, a trade group that represents investor-owned hospitals, said there was "a whirlwind of activity" by hospitals and doctors trying to get ready for the new health care system envisioned by Mr. Clinton.
But Mr. Bromberg said that hospitals were at a disadvantage, compared with big insurance companies, because they do not have subscribers and generally do not have expertise in calculating premiums or bidding for the business of large employee groups. To be sure that these highly specialized tasks will be performed well, Mr. Bromberg said, hospitals may need to form joint ventures with insurance companies, including them as full partners in their networks.

GRAPHIC: Photo: New York Hospital, the main teaching hospital of Cornell University Medical College in Manhattan, is anticipating medical overhaul proposals by the Clinton Administration. It has started a network of health organizations under the direction of George A. Vecchione, executive vice president. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (80%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF MICHIGAN (80%); MERCY HEALTH SERVICES NORTH (50%); HENRY FORD HEALTH SYSTEM (50%); MERCY HEALTH SERVICES INC (50%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; DOCTORS; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS INSURANCE (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); MERGERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); HOSPICE (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (70%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (69%); RELIGION (69%); PHARMACIES (63%); HOME HEALTH CARE (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



522 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
The antitrust investigation into Microsoft was dropped by the F.T.C., but the Justice Department announced an inquiry of its own. The F.T.C. was twice deadlocked over whether Microsoft had engaged in anticompetitive practices in the $1 billion market for personal computer operating software. [Page 35.] 
 Ameritech will eliminate 1,200 to 1,500 managers in the final phase of its corporate restructuring, cutting its current 19,000 management staff by 7 percent by the end of the year. [35.]
General Electric will trim 4,000 jobs from its jet engine division to help it weather a slump in orders from military and commercial aircraft manufacturers. [35.]
Cadbury Schweppes agreed to buy Prudential's 20.2 percent stake in Dr Pepper/Seven-Up for $231.3 million. The purchase brings Cadbury's stake to 25.9 percent. [37.]
Nintendo and Silicon Graphics are said to be working on a video game player with photo-realistic images and high speed using the MIPS chip contained in Silicon Graphics work stations. [37.]
Neither Boeing nor McDonnell Douglas would confirm reports that President Clinton had helped the companies get a $6.2 billion order from Saudi Arabia. Analysts felt the order was certain. [37.]
Herbert Haft transferred his majority ownership in Dart Group to his younger son. The sale was seen as a ploy to keep the retailing group from his wife, who is seeking a divorce. [37.]
Ricoh has developed what might be called a reverse copier: Put in a copy and out comes a blank page, with the toner that forms the image stripped away so the copy paper can be used again. [37.]
First American Bankshares -- Robert A. Altman's former employer -- is likely to balk at paying millions in legal fees incurred in Mr. Altman's acquittal in the B.C.C.I. case. [5.]
Sashco Sealants has found success selling its caulking products at lower volume but higher margins to small retailers. [35.]
 
The Economy
The Federal Reserve's main policy-making committee voted in July to maintain its bias toward raising short-term interest rates, even though some members urged it to drop that bias because economic growth was so weak. Economists meeting in Wyoming were divided over whether the committee had maintained the bias when it met again last Tuesday. [35.]
Without waiting for details of President Clinton's health plan, hospitals, doctors and insurance companies are already forming the health care networks that Mr. Clinton is likely to propose as the foundation of a new medical system. [1.]
 
Markets
The New York Mercantile Exchange would pay $50 million to members of the Commodity Exchange of New York under a plan to merge the leading exchanges for oil and gold futures. [35.]
The Dow industrials swung into positive territory in the last five minutes of trading to gain 3.35 points. It closed at a new high of 3,615.48, its fourth in a row, and gained 45.83 points in the week. [36.]
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond slipped after a spectacular two-week rally. Other Treasury issues were mixed, with the price of the 10-year note edging up slightly. [43.]
The dollar fell against the yen after having surged more than 4 percent Thursday. Gold rose. [44.] Sugar tumbled. [44.]
 
 Your Money
Income taxes on trust funds for minors and young adults will be sharply increased under the new tax law, raising questions about whether it makes sense to create such trusts. [32.]
A new book on mutual-fund investing by the chairman of the Vanguard Group is as much a "how not to" as a "how to." [32.]
Foreign stocks are cropping up in a host of mutual funds with nary a mention of global or international in their names. [32.]
Buying a single share in some companies can bring discounts on products and other perks given to shareholders. [33.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); T (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); 7974 (TSE) (56%); RICOP (PAR) (54%); RICO (LSE) (54%); 7752 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (56%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5043 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); AT&T INC (58%); CADBURY LTD (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); BOEING CO (57%); NINTENDO CO LTD (56%); RICOH CO LTD (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (83%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); METALS MARKETS (77%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (75%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (75%); FUTURES (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE (72%); RETAILERS (70%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (70%); PHOTOCOPIERS (69%); COMPUTER GAMES (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (83%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (83%); BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



523 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Higher Base Wage Urged

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20

 BODY:
In a memorandum to President Clinton, Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich has made a strong case for a 25-cent rise in the Federal minimum wage to $4.50 an hour and an automatic annual adjustment in the minimum wage linked to inflation, the Labor Department said today.
But Mr. Reich stopped short of recommending a specific course of action and said the agency would report on the pros and cons of such a policy before Oct. 20. 
 While Mr. Reich will almost certainly propose legislation along these lines, such legislation may not move forward this year. A rise in the minimum wage would attract strong opposition in Congress because it would raise business costs and might cause job losses, and the Administration's legislative agenda is already full.
 A minimum wage of $4.50 in 1994 "is a minimum prerequisite to reaching the goal of lifting families of four with full-time workers out of poverty," Mr. Reich wrote in the July 20 memorandum. The document was released first by the Employment Policies Institute, a business research group, and its authenticity was later confirmed by the Labor Department.
"If the minimum wage is not indexed, or if it is indexed at a lower level, the goal will not be achieved," Mr. Reich wrote. Indexing the minimum wage to the Consumer Price Index would mean that the minimum wage would go up each year at the same rate as inflation.
 Alan Krueger and David Card, economists at Princeton University, say a 25-cent increase would directly affect about five million workers who now earn from $4.25 an hour, the current minimum, to $4.50. More than two-thirds of these workers are 20 or older and about a third are in families with annual incomes of less than $12,500, roughly the poverty line for a family of four.
But making it more expensive for business to hire entry-level workers could cause business to replace some of these workers with machines or, more likely, a smaller number of more skilled workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); 

PERSON: REICH, ROBERT B (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



524 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
No Confirmation Is Offered On Saudi Aircraft Orders

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
Despite signals this week from President Clinton that he helped get a $6.2 billion aircraft order from Saudi Arabia's national carrier for the Boeing Company and the McDonnell Douglas Corporation, no confirmation emerged yesterday.
Spokesmen at both companies had no comment on reports of the pending order, and officials at the Saudi Embassy in Washington said they had no announcement to make. 
 White House officials said that the President, who is vacationing on Martha's Vineyard, had encouraged King Fahd of Saudi Arabia to patronize the American aerospace industry but had not lobbied for any particular manufacturer.
"The President has said he would do all he could to promote U.S. aircraft and aircraft manufacturers," Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary, said in a briefing.
 
How to Divide the Pie
 News of the deal was announced Wednesday by Senator Patty Murray of Washington.
In addition, the United States Export-Import Bank has approved a tentative commitment to finance the potential sale of Boeing jetliners to Saudi Arabia.
"I would be astonished if the Saudi Government were to change its mind," said Wolfgang H. Demisch, an analyst at BT Securities. "I think this is a done deal."
Even so, there were some misgivings about the way the news of the order had leaked out, because it broke an industry rule of thumb that an order for airplanes from a specific manufacturer is never final until it is announced by the customer.
 
Premature Suggestion
 In the past, some deals have fallen apart at the last second. Several months ago, for example, a French official said that Airbus Industrie, the European manufacturing consortium that is the largest competitor to Boeing and McDonnell Douglas, would win orders for 44 jets from Saudi Arabia. This proved premature and some industry analysts believe it angered Saudi officials.
If anything were to happen to the reported United States deal it would be an embarrassment for President Clinton, who apparently involved himself personally in trying to draw the Saudi orders away from Airbus. Through speeches to Boeing employees and his appointment of a national commission to study the airline business, the President has shown a strong interest in the industry.
The Saudi order would be a welcome one for Boeing and McDonnell Douglas, both of which have cut thousands of workers in recent months. The order is the largest on the horizon for them.
Boeing stock closed yesterday at $39.50, down 25 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange; McDonnell Douglas closed at $83.75, up $1.75.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (94%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SAUDI ARABIAN AIRLINES; MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; BOEING CO BOEING CO (96%); MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (94%); AIRBUS SAS (92%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAUDI ARABIAN AIRLINES; MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; BOEING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAUDI ARABIA SAUDI ARABIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; CONTRACTS AIRCRAFT ORDERS (91%); AIRCRAFT MFG (91%); AIRLINES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); LOBBYING (76%); APPROVALS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (57%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); PATTY MURRAY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



525 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Fed Affirmed Its Bias Toward Higher Rates

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JACKSON HOLE, Wyo., Aug. 20

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve's main policy-making committee voted in July to maintain its bias toward raising short-term interest rates, even though some members urged it to drop that bias because economic growth was so weak.
As Federal Reserve officials and private economists gathered in this Rocky Mountain resort for an annual conference, the economists were divided over whether the Fed's policy-making committee had maintained the bias when it met on Tuesday. 
 The Fed panel meets eight times a year but its deliberations are not disclosed until after the next meeting.
Several economists speculated that the Fed maintained its tilt toward higher rates because it was eager to convince financial markets that it wanted to keep inflation subdued. But others said they thought the Fed adopted a neutral stance because it was pleased by recent inflation reports but worried about slow growth. Federal Reserve officials refused to discuss what was decided at Tuesday's meeting.
According to a summary that the Federal Reserve released today of the July 6-7 meeting, the policy-making committee, known as the Federal Open Market Committee, voted 11 to 1 to continue its bias toward tighter rates. The action gives the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, the authority to raise rates somewhat without seeking board approval, although he usually consults board members before acting
At the July meeting, Wayne D. Angell, a member of the Federal Reserve Board, cast the dissenting vote, arguing that the central bank should raise interest rates immediately. He said that there was a disappointing lack of progress in reducing inflation and that monetary policy was overly expansive because the central bank's short-term interest rates, currently 3 percent, were less than the inflation rate.
Several committee members called for dropping the bias toward raising rates, suggesting that a neutral policy was more consistent with the weak growth and the subdued inflation being reported. But those members ended up voting with the majority after being convinced that if the committee abandoned that bias so soon after adopting it in May it "could convey a misleading impression" -- in the report's words -- that the Fed had become less committed to fighting inflation.
The central bank adopted the bias toward raising rates in May, when its members grew upset that inflation was running at an annual rate of more than 4 percent in the first four months of this year.
According to the summary of the July meeting, many Fed officials felt that the statistics pointed to a sustained rate of economic expansion -- a sentiment that may have been too optimistic because in late July the Commerce Department announced that the economy grew by a lackluster 1.6 percent in the second quarter.
The report of the July meeting said, "While current monetary policy seemed likely to support further economic expansion, the committee needed to remain alert to the potential for intensifying inflation."
Some members said that while the need for any change in policy seemed somewhat remote in coming months, the next policy move was more likely to be toward tightening rather than toward easing.
At the July meeting, the policy-making committee decided to put less stock in trying to meet certain targets for growth in the money supply. The members noted that the relationship between economic growth and growth in M-2 -- a broad definition of the money supply that includes cash in circulation and deposits in checking and savings accounts -- had largely broken down. A certain amount of growth in M-2 was no longer producing the expected rate of overall economic growth.
The committee considered, but rejected, relying on an even broader measure of the money supply: M-2 plus bond and stock mutual funds. The central bank concluded that that measure would be unreliable.
Federal Reserve officials said one reason M-2 had became such an unreliable yardstick was that millions of Americans had moved their money from savings and checking accounts, which are considered part of the money supply, into bond and stock mutual funds, which are not considered part of the money supply.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (85%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); MOUNTAINS (57%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



526 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: D. Lee Bawden, 56; Washington Economist

 BODY:
Dr. D. Lee Bawden, senior economist at the Urban Institute in Washington, who wrote more than 70 papers and books evaluating social programs, died on Wednesday at his home in Great Falls, Va. He was 56.
The cause was cancer, the institute, a social and economic policy-research organization, said. 
 Dr. Bawden joined the institute in 1974. Four years later he became director of its employment and labor policy division, now known as the Human Resources Policy Center.
His principal subjects were poverty, welfare policies and employment and training programs for those without either. His most recent books, published by the institute, included "Rethinking Employment Policy," with Felicity Skidmore (1989); and, as editor, "The Social Contract Revisited: Aims and Outcome of President Reagan's Welfare Policy" (1984).
Dennis Lee Bawden was born in Wolf Point, Mont. A graduate of Montana State University, he earned a doctorate in agricultural economics at the University of California at Berkeley. He served as a lieutenant in the United States Air Force.
Dr. Bawden is survived by his wife, Carlene Crumpton Bawden; four children, Hilary A. and Darin L., both of Madison, Wis., Robert Crumpton Jr. of Lakeville, Minn., and Sharon R. Crumpton of Reston, Va.; his mother, Alice B. Bawden of Billings, Mont.; two brothers, John B., also of Billings, and James G., of Crown Point, Ind.; and a granddaughter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BILLINGS, MT, USA (72%); MADISON, WI, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: CROWN POINT PRESS (54%); URBAN INSTITUTE (84%); URBAN INSTITUTE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); US AIR FORCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (84%); URBAN INSTITUTE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); US AIR FORCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MONTANA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BILLINGS, MT, USA (72%); MADISON, WI, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CHILDREN (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); CANCER (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); AIR FORCES (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); 

PERSON: BAWDEN, D LEE (DR) RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



527 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Pressure of Costs Drives Some Contractors to Stress Worker Safety

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JACKSON TOWNSHIP, N.J.

 BODY:
Shouting over the cough of heavy machinery and the roar of air compressors, Steven T. Thies is a preacher of workplace safety at a construction site where the congregation of hard hats at times seems deaf and often blind to his exhortations.
But like the newly converted businessmen and contractors in the construction industry who send safety managers like Mr. Thies into the field to reduce accidents and to lift profits, the foremen and laborers are beginning to hear the message. 
 That is the consensus of leaders in the construction industry, where workers' compensation premiums and other soaring costs related to death and injury in a dangerous occupation are forcing management to push safety programs to remain competitive and profitable.
 
Insurance Company Pressure
 Construction is one of the most dangerous jobs in America, placing workers in a constantly changing raw environment where one misstep or forgetful moment can snuff out a life or crush a limb. Pressures to finish a job quickly often push foremen and workers to take risks, industry experts say, amid a macho culture of muscle, sweat and swagger that tends to belittle safety measures and confuse caution with timidity.
The new push for safety, the experts say, is being led by large companies forced by the recession to try to save money and become more competitive by taking advantage of revised insurance industry policies that reward good safety records. "When companies understand that safety saves them money and increases productivity, they become believers," said Mr. Thies, corporate safety manager for Henkels & McCoy, a 5,000-worker utility construction company based in Blue Bell, Pa.
Others in the industry suspect that little is happening at most work sites even as big companies make progress.
 
An Epidemic of Deaths
 Workers' compensation costs for on-the-job deaths, medical treatment and lost wages due to injuries, have tripled in the past decade for construction and building trades work, according to the insurance industry.
"A watershed period of concern is forcing the industry to focus on safety issues and make rapid changes," said Knute Ringen, director of the Center to Protect Workers' Rights, a Washington research arm of 15 A.F.L.-C.I.O. construction trade unions.
In July, the center sponsored a national conference of delegates from organized labor, contractors, universities and government to map strategies to end what Mr. Ringen described as a "cowboy mentality of risk-taking" among both workers and bosses that he said produced some 2,000 deaths and 210,000 serious injuries a year.
"Any other industry with that record would be shut down," he said. "A disease with that many victims would be declared an epidemic."
 
No Safety Culture
 Mr. Ringen blamed the transient and episodic nature of construction work for the lack of public outcry about its dangers. "The average contractor employs 8 to 10 workers and the construction worker signs on with 6 to 8 contractors a year at different locations," he said.
More than 8 million people share work that is equivalent to fewer than 5 million full-time jobs. And a contractor can hire unskilled workers off the street and put them to work on a dangerous work site with no training.
"All this combines," he said, "to work against a strong safety culture throughout the industry."
Lee Penman, president of Kamp Associates, a New Jersey consulting firm that advises construction projects on risk management, agreed. "Money and work schedules drive the industry so there's still an attitude that work must be completed quickly even if it means taking safety shortcuts," he said.
 
A Different Breed
 "You can walk on to almost any job site and find safety violations and I don't see anyone shutting down operations because of them."
Instead, he continued, it is fairly common to see workers flout safety standards. "I've seen bosses walk girders on a high building blindfolded to show the ironworkers he can still cut it," he said.
Yet some owners and contractors are establishing higher safety standards than those mandated by the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration, said James Lapping, safety director for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in Washington.
 
Security, Not Safety
 From its inception in 1970, OSHA often was attacked because of its demand for safety measures that many in the construction industry portrayed as intrusive, impractical and costly.
Those attacks decreased after the Reagan Administration officials closed some 40 inspection offices and cut staff by 20 percent. Then the Bush Administration sought wider compliance by a tenfold increase in the size of fines for willful violators.
The number of field inspectors was not restored to full strength. As a result, OSHA officials concede, projects employing large work crews are more likely to be inspected than smaller ones, even though those have a higher proportion of the untrained and inexperienced workers most susceptible to serious accidents.
Risks also remain great for unskilled laborers and illegal aliens who feel powerless to challenge a boss who fails to provide safety equipment or orders them to perform unsafe work.
"In a recession, job security is more important than job safety and workers don't ask questions when a foreman tells them to do something that might be dangerous," said Dennis Gaughan, head of the OSHA field office in Avenel, N.J., which inspects work places on Staten Island and parts of central New Jersey.
 
A Role for Unions
 But Joseph Busacco, health and safety officer of Local 472, Heavy and General Laborers Union in northern New Jersey, said, "If our guys are sent into bad conditions, we'll tell the contractor to make the place safe or we'll shut him down."
Moreover, he said, unions are becoming less supportive of workers who flout safety rules. "We tell the contractor if one of our guys won't wear a hard hat or safety vest to send him back to the union hall," he said.
In New Jersey, unions and contractors cooperate in an organization called Project Build. A mobile unit operated by the Heavy and General Laborers Union, with contributions from contractors, visits work sites to show safety videotapes to workers.
 
The Message in the Ditch
 The message, at times, has trouble making its way from the front office down to the guy in the ditch with his boot on a shovel. In Jackson Township, where Henkels & McCoy is laying a natural gas pipeline, Mr. Thies, the safety director, came face to face with an attitude among some workers he describes as "How much can I get away with not doing?"
Coming upon laborers and welders laying a 30-inch pipe in a 10-foot deep trench, he spotted some minor infractions that were immediately cleared. But 50 yards further he discovered a major violation: The trench had been inadequately shored by timbers to prevent a cave-in.
Mr. Thies told Sal Simao, the foreman, to halt construction until the problem was fixed, an order that caused some rolling of eyeballs under hard hats along the line. Mr. Simao protested that the trench had been prepared by another crew. The slowdown, he grumbled, would reflect badly on him.
"Routine is the enemy of safety," Skip Parry, one of Mr. Thies's inspectors, observed later. "The old theory was 'I am only going to be down in the ditch for two minutes and it's never caved in before.'
"The new theory is 'We're going to protect lives even if you're down there for only 30 seconds, even if we could lay 14 more feet of pipe in the time it takes to do it right.'

GRAPHIC: Photo: "When companies understand that safety saves them money and increases productivity, they become believers," said Steven T. Thies, third from left, corporate safety manager for Henkels & McCoy. He pointed out a possible safety problem at a construction site in Freehold Township, N.J. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (66%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BELL PA (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; LABOR; WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION INSURANCE CONSTRUCTION (92%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (91%); INSURANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (89%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



528 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Rally in Long Bond Cools Slightly

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The 30-year Treasury bond retreated slightly yesterday, after a two-week rally that sent its price sharply higher and pushed its yield to record lows. But many traders expected the rally to resume.
Other Treasury issues were mixed, with the price of the 10-year note edging up slightly. 
 In trading yesterday, the new 6.25 percent bond due in August 2023 slipped 7/32 . Its yield rose to 6.22 percent, from 6.20 percent on Thursday, its lowest point in the 16 years that the Treasury has issued 30-year bonds on a regular basis. Prices and yields move in opposite directions.
The price of the 10-year Treasury note, which is becoming an alternative benchmark for long-term interest rates, rose 1/32 of a point, while its yield was unchanged at 5.61 percent. Shorter-term issues also showed little change.
 
New Issue's Strength
 Traders noted that the new 30-year bond, which was auctioned by the Treasury on Aug. 12, continued to outperform the previously auctioned 30-year bond by a wide margin.
Reflecting sharply higher demand for the new bond, its yield in the secondary market was around 15 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, lower than the old bond's yield.
Analysts said the strong demand for new 30-year bonds was fueled by an impending drought of coming issues, which has driven up their price. The Treasury Department has acted to sharply scale back its sales of 30-year bonds. The 30-year auction on Aug. 12 was the last for six months.
But the wide gap between yields of the old bonds and the new, or "cash," bonds has created some problems for many traders, who depend on consistency in their value to carry out their transactions.
"The cash bond is trading on a completely different planet from the rest of the market," said John Canavan, an analyst with Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton, N.J.
Part of the volatility was tied to an unusually small number of investors holding a large portion of the newly auctioned bonds, Mr. Canavan said. That means a few transactions can tilt the bond's value in secondary trading.
 
Spurred by Deficit Data
 On Thursday, the 30-year bond rallied on an unexpected surge in the nation's trade deficit, which added to a string of recent evidence that the economic recovery is sputtering. Slow economic growth and low inflation help the value of fixed-income securities. Traders said some investors had decided to take their profits before the weekend.
Elliott Platt, director of economic research at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities, said that the market seemed positioned to rally further but that it could be setting itself up for a correction.
"Right now people are fundamentally bullish," he said. "But I think they can be in for some disappointment. I don't think the economy is as weak as some of the recent data have suggested."
The discount rates on Treasury bills edged up slightly, with the rate on the three-month bill rising a basis point, to 2.97 percent, and the rate on the six-month bill also rising a basis point, to 3.09 percent.
But the Federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, slipped to 2.94 percent, from 3.02 percent on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



529 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: In San Diego, the Ratings Are Low

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STUDIO CITY, Calif.

 BODY:
Life was simpler for Tom Werner when all he had to worry about were Bill Cosby and Roseanne Arnold, the stars of his best-known television productions. He could have fun at a ball game. Or contemplate what quiet things his money could buy. He wasn't being demonized by fans or the news media.
Then, he and 14 other rich folks bought the San Diego Padres in 1990 for $75 million. Last year, after the Padres finished third in the National League West at 82-80, the team seemed on the verge of something very good. But it was an expensive good his Padres achieved. Earlier this season, he traded off high-salaried stars like Gary Sheffield, Fred McGriff and Bruce Hurst. 
 This was not very good for Werner's image.
Even worse than producing "A Different World."
Werner, who has the largest share of the team's 15 owners, is not having fun. He does not sit in a field box at San Diego-Jack Murphy Stadium anymore. He sits in the owner's suite, a demilitarized zone. He finds this very frustrating and not at all fun.
There is no sympathy for the devil.
In his Studio City offices north of Hollywood, Werner asks an assistant for a newspaper, and he flips to what is still fun -- television -- and a favorable forecast for his new situation comedy, "Grace Under Fire."
"I'm dealt with very nicely in the life section," he says. "But not in the sports section."
 
No Easy Resolution
 But life in sports for Werner is not a sitcom episode with an easy resolution. Dr. Cliff Huxtable won't make Werner feel better, unless Cosby's physician character has a dandy revenue-sharing plan.
"It's been quite tough because we think we're doing the right thing," he says, in a piney conference room without any television or baseball artifacts. He wears a blue shirt and green pants with loafers and socks.
"Nobody who understands the facts would operate any differently," he says. "I have letters from fans who understand that."
But there have been many vitriolic letters, a poll urging Werner to sell the Padres, demands for refunds and a lawsuit by fans who would like to cancel Werner like a bad television show. There has been conjecture that the stripping of the Padres might have been halted by a commissioner, if baseball had one.
 
Trading to Improve
 "That is ludicrous," Werner says, shaking his 43-year-old head, glaring with fire in his eyes. "We didn't trade players for cash. We traded to improve our team. We believe we got good value."
The Padres' return for its stars, dating to last year's trade of reliever Craig Lefferts, includes several young players now playing on the denuded major league level: infielder Ricky Gutierrez, pitchers Trevor Hoffman, Tim Mauser and Andy Ashby and catcher Brad Ausmus.
It could make a beleaguered owner go back to full-time television.
"I keep hoping baseball as a national institution can right itself so it's easier for a small-market team to compete," he says, adding that he is not selling or moving. "I'm trying to improve the institution. I'm not finished bumping my head against the wall."
So he has been a busy owner with a bruised head. He was chairman of the television committee that blew off a traditional network television deal from CBS that offered 54 percent less than it currently pays. He urged baseball's joint venture with ABC and NBC -- a financial skin bracer -- that will split revenues but provide no upfront money as in the past.
He led his Padres -- four other teams followed -- into breaking the National League's 37-year-old broadcasting agreement as a strategy to increase from 25 percent the amount of local cable television money that the league's teams share.
"Who's to say we don't increase the value of the larger-market teams if we don't have more revenue sharing that helps the small markets?" he says.
 
A Contrary View
 There is a contrary view that maybe Werner and his board of grim discounters are doing the savvy thing by making a statement about how arbitration and free agency are choking small markets like San Diego by unloading big-time salary debt. Too bad the message is as popular as botulism.
It's not a fan-friendly strategy in the short term, maybe not in the long term either. When you rid yourself of the unpaid portions of salaries like McGriff's $4.25 million, only your accountants will think you are smart.
"I hope people will say what we're doing is smart," he says. "I'm not looking for people to throw bouquets at me. I'm saying the economics aren't right. People don't want to look at sports as economics."
He has been outspoken privately but not publicly as much as other owners.
 
A Fortune in Sitcoms
 "I'm somewhat shy and I don't want to talk about money, money, money," he says. He would prefer the news media would not, either. He knows neither can.
In various, less draconian ways, other owners are trying to reduce their payrolls. But nobody has done it as spectacularly as Werner.
"I.B.M. reduces its payroll," he says. "Procter & Gamble reduces its payroll. It's not terrible in America to do that. I'm doing it to breathe, and I'm roundly criticized for it." There's no sympathy for the devil.
Werner has made a fortune from his company's share of the syndication profits on "The Cosby Show" and "Roseanne." The other Padres owners have a varied range of wealth. Werner says that they have never made a penny on the Padres, that they had an operating loss of $10 million for 1991 and 1992.
 
What's a Popular Number?
 "We've lost $10 million and we're unpopular," Werner says. "Is there a number at which we'd be popular? Fifteen million? Twenty million?"
He raises his left palm in a sign of frustration.
Last week's owners' meeting in Kohler, Wis., did not result in a consensus on the revenue-sharing that would benefit Werner and other small marketeers. Werner says it was too rosy to expect a plan in two days.
One of the loudest voices heard by lobby-milling reporters in Kohler was that of the Yankees' principal owner, George Steinbrenner, the largest of large-market owners. Another defender of the faith was the Mets' co-owner, Fred Wilpon.
In being a vocal advocate of small markets' needs, Werner says: "I'm not trying to make any example to George Steinbrenner. We're just choking here."
Too much choking may return Werner from the protective shield of his owners' suite and deliver him from his time-consuming, largely unpleasant baseball routine. That may be when "my sanity" tells Werner it is time to return full time into the embrace of Roseanne's arms.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Werner, who has the largest share among the Padres' 15 owners, is not h aving fun with the team. (San Diego Union-Tribune)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SAN DIEGO PADRES SAN DIEGO PADRES BASEBALL CLUB LTD PARTNERSHIP (69%); SAN DIEGO PADRES (94%); SAN DIEGO PADRES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN DIEGO PADRES SAN DIEGO PADRES (94%); SAN DIEGO PADRES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (75%); 

PERSON: WERNER, TOM; SANDOMIR, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1993



530 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 18; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: August 22, 1993

 BODY:

 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 	1	1	54	THE BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY, by Robert James Waller. (Warner, $16.95.) A photographer and a lonely farmer's wife in Iowa.	 	 	 	 	2	2	2	VANISHED, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $23.95.) The abduction of their young son creates a crisis for a New York man and woman and for the woman's first lover.	 	 	 	 	3	4	3	STREETS OF LAREDO, by Larry McMurtry. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A Texas bounty hunter goes south of the border in pursuit of a train robber and killer.	 	 	 	 	4	3	23	THE CLIENT, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $23.50.) A deadly secret, revealed by a lawyer just before he kills himself, presents problems for an 11-year-old boy.	 	 	 	 	5	6	19	LIKE WATER FOR CHOCOLATE, by Laura Esquivel. (Doubleday, $17.50.) Frustration, love, hope -- and recipes -- sampled by a woman on a Mexican ranch.	 	 	 	 	6	5	6	THE NIGHT MANAGER, by John le Carre. (Knopf, $24.) A Zurich hotelman's life in the world of arms dealers, dope smugglers and international terrorists.	 	 	 	 	7	9	12	PLEADING GUILTY, by Scott Turow. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) A lawyer in pursuit of his firm's missing partner and a multimillion-dollar fund.	 	 	 	 	8	7	9	PIGS IN HEAVEN, by Barbara Kingsolver. (HarperCollins, $22.) The stresses and strains that befall a mother and her adopted Cherokee daughter.	 	 	 	 	9	8	6	HONOR AMONG THIEVES, by Jeffrey Archer. (HarperCollins, $23.) Saddam Hussein plots to steal and destroy the Declaration of Independence.	 	 	 	 	10	12	4	A CASE OF NEED, by Michael Crichton writing as Jeffery Hudson. (Dutton, $18.95.) A 1968 novel about the mysterious death of a surgeon's daughter.	 	 	 	 	11	10	9	CRUEL & UNUSUAL, by Patricia D. Cornwell. (Scribners, $21.) Dr. Kay Scarpetta investigates mysteries involving a man executed for murder.	 	 	 	 	12		1	PRIME WITNESS, by Steve Martini. (Putnam, $21.95.) A series of murders in a small California town vexes a temporary district attorney in and out of court.	 	 	 	 	13	13	6	AFTER ALL THESE YEARS, by Susan Isaacs. (HarperCollins, $23.) The plight of a woman whose estranged husband is found murdered in her house.	 	 	 	 	14	14	12	THE SCORPIO ILLUSION, by Robert Ludlum. (Bantam, $23.95.) A former naval officer tracks down a terrorist conspiracy headed by a vengeful woman.	 	 	 	 	15		1	THE SHINING ONES, by David Eddings. (Del Rey/Ballantine, $22.) The second volume of "The Tamuli," a fantasy saga.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction	 	 	 	 	1	1	54	WOMEN WHO RUN WITH THE WOLVES, by Clarissa Pinkola Estes. (Ballantine, $23.) How myths and folk tales can enable women to understand their psyches.	 	 	 	 	2	4	6	LISTENING TO PROZAC, by Peter D. Kramer. (Viking, $23.) A psychiatrist discusses mood-changing medications and their effects on a person's self.	 	 	 	 	3	5	15	EMBRACED BY THE LIGHT, by Betty J. Eadie with Curtis Taylor. (Gold Leaf Press, $14.95.) A woman's near-death experience.	 	 	 	 	4	3	49	THE WAY THINGS OUGHT TO BE, by Rush H. Limbaugh 3d. (Pocket, $22.) Anecdotes and opinions offered by the talk-show host.	 	 	 	 	5	2	11	REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION, by Michael Hammer and James Champy. (Harper Business, $25.) A manifesto for business innovation.	 	 	 	 	6	6	10	THE FIFTIES, by David Halberstam. (Villard, $27.50.) A journalist's social, political, economic and cultural history of the 1950's.	 	 	 	 	7	7	9	DAYS OF GRACE, by Arthur Ashe and Arnold Rampersad. (Knopf, $24.) The memoirs of the late tennis star.	 	 	 	 	8	9	36	CARE OF THE SOUL, by Thomas Moore. (HarperCollins, $22.50.) A psychotherapist's discussion of spirituality and everyday life.	 	 	 	 	9	8	6	GIRL, INTERRUPTED, by Susanna Kaysen. (Turtle Bay/Random House, $17.) A memoir of a young woman's mental illness.	 	 	 	 	10	10	11	MAMA MAKES UP HER MIND, by Bailey White. (Addison-Wesley, $17.95.) Life in a tiny Georgia town; by a first-grade teacher and radio commentator.	 	 	 	 	11	13	12	SECRET CEREMONIES, by Deborah Laake. (Morrow, $20.) The unhappy marriages of a woman raised as a Mormon.	 	 	 	 	12	11	27	HEALING AND THE MIND, by Bill Moyers. (Doubleday, $25.) Conversations with physicians and others about the relationship of sickness to thoughts and emotions.	 	 	 	 	13 *	14	2	THE LAST BROTHER, by Joe McGinniss. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A biography of Senator Edward M. Kennedy.	 	 	 	 	14		1	MAYBE (MAYBE NOT), by Robert Fulghum. (Villard, $19.) Essays suggesting that inspiration can be found in most unexpected ways and places.	 	 	 	 	15	15	14	A WORLD WAITING TO BE BORN, by M. Scott Peck. (Bantam, $22.95.) A call for people to make civility part of their lives.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 	1	1	4	AGELESS BODY, TIMELESS MIND, by Deepak Chopra. (Harmony, $22.) A physician's advice about aging.	 	 	 	 	2	3	8	EAT MORE, WEIGH LESS, by Dean Ornish. (HarperCollins, $22.50.) Counsel about diet and nutrition.	 	 	 	 	3	2	14	MEN ARE FROM MARS, WOMEN ARE FROM VENUS, by John Gray. (HarperCollins, $20.) Ways to improve communication and relationships between the sexes.	 	 	 	 	4	4	17	A WOMAN'S WORTH, by Marianne Williamson. (Random House, $17.) Advice for women.		 	 	 	
 
Rankings reflect sales figures, for the week ending Aug. 7, at 3,050 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 28,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
 
DENYING THE HOLOCAUST: The Growing Assault on Truth and Memory, by Deborah E. Lipstadt. (Free Press, $22.95.) A historian untangles the perverse and ingenious arguments of those who say there was no Holocaust.
THE FORGOTTEN PLAGUE: How the Battle Against Tuberculosis Was Won -- and Lost, by Frank Ryan. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) A sobering narration, with possible implications for AIDS, of the 70-plus years and the generations of scientists it took to cure tuberculosis (which is still around).
FOXFIRE: Confessions of a Girl Gang, by Joyce Carol Oates. (William Abrahams/Dutton, $21.) A dark and troubled epic of women who revenge themselves on men, set in the slow-witted 1950's, before female bonding had been discovered.
THE HIDDEN LIFE OF DOGS, by Elizabeth Marshall Thomas. (Peter Davison/Houghton Mifflin, $18.95.) What do dogs want, feel, even think? A close, sympathetic observer's data make this a profoundly unsilly question.
KAYAKING THE FULL MOON: A Journey Down the Yellowstone River to the Soul of Montana, by Steve Chapple. (HarperCollins, $23.) Self-discovery by an arduous journey into the wilderness is a literary device that works just fine in this instance for the author and his family.
THE LIBERTY CAMPAIGN, by Jonathan Dee. (Doubleday, $22.) Very large questions of good and evil and the low moral stakes in everyday American life inhabit Mr. Dee's provocative novel about a suburban executive whose neighbor is accused of monstrous crimes in Brazil.
A MOMENT OF WAR: A Memoir of the Spanish Civil War, by Laurie Lee. (New Press, $17.95.) An English poet and memoirist's bleak, understated, metaphorical monument to his ragged brigade of international volunteers.
PHILIP LARKIN: A Writer's Life, by Andrew Motion. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) Pre-eminently the modern poet of death, Larkin in this biography by a poet and friend is overtaken in life by the postures of his poetry.
THE REST OF LIFE: Three Novellas, by Mary Gordon. (Viking, $22.) Each of these cautionary tales concerns an alive, complex, contemporary woman, and each of the women is wounded by an unequal relationship with a man.
SADE: A Biography, by Maurice Lever. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) A life of the French aristocrat and novelist (1740-1814) so wicked they renamed wickedness in his honor, so to speak.
SECOND SIGHT, by Robert V. Hine. (University of California, $20.) A splendid, highly literate personal account by the fortunate recipient of a miracle, a distinguished historian who slowly lost his eyesight and suddenly got it back.
THE WRESTLER'S CRUEL STUDY, by Stephen Dobyns. (Norton, $22.95.) Probability has no place when wrestling and metaphysics meet in this entertaining post-modern novel, governed by the presence of a wrestler's manager who talks and thinks like Friedrich Nietzsche.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); SMUGGLING (74%); LAWYERS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); GUILTY PLEAS (64%); MURDER (54%); TERRORISM (50%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



531 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 21; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 8259 words

HEADLINE: The Devil in Long Island

BYLINE: By Ron Rosenbaum; Ron Rosenbaum is the author of "Travels with Dr. Death and Other Unusual Investigations." He is currently writing a book for Random House about attempts to explain Hitler; he also writes a column for Harper's Bazaar on contemporary culture.

 BODY:
"He wondered every once in a while what life would be like without a second story and how it was people managed to get along in ranch-style or split-level houses without running amok once a year or so."
 Thomas Pynchon, from "Low-lands"
It would be foolish to believe that a single story could sum up the entire range of bizarre and sensational behavior that is Long Island Babylon. Particularly a story that doesn't even mention Amy or Sol, Joey or "Joel the Ripper," little Katie Beers or Howard Stern, much less the "Homeroom Hit Man," the "Angel of Death" nurse, the Islip Garbage Barge or Geraldo Rivera. 
 Nonetheless, I feel that the story of the unprintable Satanist Ritual Killing Ground Photo comes close.
Some years ago in Northport -- not far from the birthplace of Pynchon, who is, far more than the frequently invoked F. Scott Fitzgerald, the true literary avatar of the Long Island soul -- two allegedly angel-dusting, devil-worshiping teen-agers were branded as "ritual cult murderers" of another teen-ager in the Aztakea woods.
It was one of the first such episodes in what would become an overhyped national trendlet, and perhaps the first signal that something sinister was stirring out there behind the split-level shutters of Long Island's suburbs. But this particular story about the unprintable photo, one I heard from a former Newsday editor who swears it's true, isn't about the killing itself; rather about something that happened the night after the death became public.
It seems the paper had dispatched a photographer to get a nighttime shot of the supposedly spooky, satanist ritual killing ground out there in the woods, something that would capture the diabolical horror of it all. But when certain pictures came out of the darkroom, they just weren't . . . suitable. Unusable. Not because they were too terrifying (at least not terrifying in a Luciferian way). But because many photographs of the alleged cult coven's killing circle prominently featured a large boulder, across the face of which was scrawled the following somewhat-less-than-terrifying cult slogan:
SATIN LIVES!
A check with the Newsday photo library disclosed that contact sheets of all unpublished photos had been discarded. Nonetheless, 10 years later, it can be said with confidence: Satin still lives on Long Island. No, Satin flourishes. Satin rules. Satin lives in Joey Buttafuoco's auto body shop, Satin lives in Sol Wachtler's Manhasset town house, Satin lives in the recurrent proof that even when we try our hardest to be sensationally bad, we often wind up just a little bit off -- as much embarrassing as menacing.
I say "we" because, while I was born in Manhattan and have lived most of the latter half of my life here, I grew up on Long Island, and I'm resigned to the fact that in some essential, irrevocable way I'll always be a Long Islander. Resigned to the fact that, whenever I tell someone my hometown was Bay Shore, I feel compelled to add, pre-emptively, "Yes, that's right, that's the home of Katie Beers's dungeon." Resigned to the fact that every mush-mouthed hayseed in America feels he has the right to say, condescendingly, "Oh, you're from Long Island, you mean Lawn Guyland" -- as if everyone there spoke that way and he was establishing a Henry Higgins-like sophistication by comparison.
Resigned to the fact that while people from New Jersey, the second most maligned and unfashionable place to come from in America, at least have native son Bruce Springsteen to transmute their state's toxic wastelands into a kind of doomed romantic grandeur, those of us from Long Island have . . . Debbie Gibson and Billy Joel.
Resigned to the fact that while the image of Long Island was once merely unfashionable, uncool, the epitome of Plastic Suburbia, a Levittown of the Mind lampooned by 60's folkies for its cookie-cutter "Little boxes made of ticky tacky," suddenly in the past few years the Guyland (as we expatriates like to call it) has turned into a veritable tabloid pandemonium, no longer just tacky, but spectacularly mortifying, ludicrously, demonically possessed -- possessed by Satin.
Resigned, yes, but also lately, I must admit, perversely proud. Suddenly my background, my hometown has become tremendously exotic, the object of awe and wonder, not just snickering. Perversely proud but also profoundly puzzled. What the hell happened? What happened to the incredibly boring place I grew up in, where I swear nothing ever happened? What happened to turn it into this charnel house of sensational spouse slayings; fatally attracted judges posing as lowlife, blackmailing private eyes sending condoms to mistresses' daughters; cold-blooded, steroid-juiced young killers; kidnappers with dungeons; horticultural serial killers? A veritable Babylon and not the colorless stop on the L.I.R.R. right after Amityville, Copiague and Lindenhurst, but a Babylon out of the Book of Revelation, the blood-drenched Mother of Abominations.
I WAS THINKING ABOUT ALL this rather gloomily the other day. I believe it was the week after the story of the obsessed tennis coach and dungeon builder, Gary Wilensky (who wanted to make his teen-age tennis student, Jennifer Rhodes, his Katie Beers) broke, and Newsday printed his high-school yearbook photo that revealed -- wouldn't you know it? -- he came from Roslyn, L.I. About the same time, a local television station ran a scare story about a so-called Cannibal Killer, a former schoolteacher who had killed and eaten a student and who was about to be granted weekend furloughs from the psycho ward so he could return to his parents' home in -- you guessed it -- Melville, L.I.
I found myself staring resentfully at a recent Dewar's profile ad that featured a cheerful achiever whose hometown was Chicago. Under the rubric "Home: Chicago, Illinois," the Dewar's ad quoted her saying: "Toddlin' Town? Up and running's more like it!"
Bleakly, it occurred to me that just about every other place in America can find something to be perky and boosterish about. Death Valley, the Great Dismal Swamp, despite the names, are natural wonders. Feisty Cleveland, battling back from its toxic river-on-fire image, has the Rock-and-Roll Hall of Fame under construction at last.
But Long Island . . . what can you say these days?
Home: "Long Island. Plenty of sleazy spouse murders and more to come!"
Or
Home: "Long Island. When better dungeons are built, our psychos will build them."
Or perhaps something a bit more hopeful: "We've already been through our Satanist phase." Or "When you get three TV movies of the week, then you can criticize."
So what is it about the Guyland, anyway? Yes, I know there are sensational tabloid crimes everywhere and the closeness to the Manhattan media nexus tends to magnify everything. But even so, that was always true. There's just no denying that something has changed in the past decade, that, as our bard Billy Joel sings on his new album, there's "lots more to read about, Lolita and suburban lust."
But why? Why is this Island different from all other islands? And why are so many Long Islanders suddenly running amok?
The question of Long Island uniqueness was posed in a particularly acute way by one of the characters on one of those three Amy Fisher-Joey Buttafuoco made-for-TV movies.
The scene: The interior of Joey's Complete Auto Body Shop. One of Joey's employees is theorizing about the deep, underlying source of the love triangle shooting. He's obviously given some thought to the vexing question, attributing it to "Mid-Island Syndrome."
"It's the wires," he declares. "The wires weren't buried underground like in other parts of the country, so with all this electricity in the air, it fries some people's brains."
Now there are some practical objections to this theory. A Lilco spokeswoman, after checking with the Long Island power company's electric service operations department, insisted that Long Island does not differ from the rest of the nation in the way it deploys its high-tension lines and that, in fact, more are buried than exposed. Still, the power-line explanation at least attempts to offer a unified field theory of Long Island mania. And even the Lilco spokeswoman, perhaps attempting to divert attention from the power lines, offered an implicit endorsement of the quest for some explanation.
"Now the water -- that's another story," she said.
But before we get deeper into a consideration of Long Island theories, we have to do some surgery. We have to define exactly what we're talking about when we talk about the Guyland.
First, let's slice off Brooklyn and Queens at the Nassau County line. Now let's excise the Hamptons and Fire Island, which are really Manhattan transfers. I'm tempted to chop off Great Neck, a kind of transplanted Upper West Side, but if I did we'd lose one of the genuine culture heroes of the Guyland, the Great Neck native Andy Kaufman, the inspired madman comic recently memorialized anew by R.E.M.'s beautiful song, "Man on the Moon."
Still, when we look at the results, we're left with something, well, very cut off, all stump: the "Boxing Helena" of islands.
Which brings us to the first General Theory of Long Island I want to consider:
Gullah Theory -- People who think of Long Island as mainly a bedroom suburb of New York City don't grasp just how cut off much of the island really is, how isolated, how strange. Once you get out beyond Huntington on the North and Massapequa to the South, you're not dealing with city commuter culture, you're dealing with Long Island lifers, a different breed altogether.
"When people write about Long Island," the novelist Richard Price once observed, "they write about Fitzgerald's West Egg, but they don't think about places like Freeport." And the further out you go, the less has been written, the less is really known by most New Yorkers whose experience with this Long Island -- the Guyland of Freeport and Hicksville and Wyandanch, of Brentwood and Farmingville and Nesconset -- consists of a few conversations with locals in diners off the Long Island Expressway or the occasional trip to the supermarket in Bay Shore before catching the ferry to Fire Island.
As someone whose miserable summer job experience as a teen-ager consisted mainly of holding down positions in the supermarkets of Bay Shore (the low point was a hot-asphalt summer retrieving shopping carts on a vast King Kullen parking lot), I can assure you day-trippers, you sophisticated graduates of Riverdale and Stuyvesant, you street-smart urban boys and girls from the city hoods, you don't realize what a different world you glide through in your air-cooled Jitneys.
You day-trippers and weekend Hamptonites tend to forget the islandness of the Guyland. But the fact is, the only link to the mainland of America from the 516 area code are the ferries to New London and Bridgeport: Nothing goes through Long Island to get to somewhere else.
That is very cut off. There are virtues to being so cut off -- closeness, cohesiveness and a sense of commonality. But there are also problems -- a kind of inbreeding, spiritual if not physical, and, frequently, the development of an idiosyncratic dialect that separates, even alienates, native speakers from mainstream culture. The classic instance is the "Gullah" spoken by the descendants of West Africans, who've lived for centuries on certain sea islands off the Georgia and Carolina coasts, almost completely in isolation from the mainland. The famed Guyland dialect, so alien and untuneful to outsiders is, in effect, our Gullah.
Being this cut off has made the Guyland a laboratory for more than just language, made it, in effect, a kind of Plum Island of culture. You recall Plum Island, don't you -- the little island off the tip of Long Island's North Fork, the one marked on maps "Animal Disease Laboratory (Restricted)" because it's the site of top-secret, heavy-security, infectious-disease research labs. Let's not even get into the indignity of this situation: of all the pork barrel projects, boondoggles and Federal plums to be plucked, we get Plum Island.
Still, it makes one wonder: there's been trouble at Plum Island lately. Recent power failures and evacuations raised questions about the possibility that the almost unbelievably virulent strains of microbes (like Rift Valley Fever) supposedly sealed up on the island, have escaped. Questions that were not put to rest by reports of jerry-built attempts to resterilize a sealed laboratory by vaporizing formaldehyde in 97 electric frying pans. Could it be that Mid-Island Fever is actually the result of the escape of an experimental behavioral virus from Plum Island? Is that what's in the water?
Or if it's not something in the water, could it be something in the blood? That's the question posed by an ethnographic explanation we might call Amy Fisher-Billy Baldwin Matzoh-Pizza Theory.
In a recent interview, Baldwin, the star of "Sliver," recalled that his hometown, Massapequa, used to be known on the South Shore by the derisive (or proud?) moniker Matzoh-Pizza, a nickname linking (a bit uneasily) the two ethnic groups that predominate in the town. But there may be more to the linkage than mozzarella and unleavened bread: Is it just an accident of fate that the two Long Islanders most well known to the rest of the nation for their outrageousness -- Amy Fisher and Howard Stern -- are both products of Matzoh-Pizza marriages between Italian and Jewish parents? Consider also that the most memorable -- and scary -- nonfiction account of growing up in the Mid-Island, "Grown-Up-Fast" by Betsy Israel, was written by the half-Jewish offspring of a Massapequa marriage.
(The great defining Massapequa moment, the Sistine-Chapel-ceiling Massapequa moment, came on that morning when Massapequa resident Joey Buttafuoco reached out and touch-toned Guyland-born Howard Stern on air -- just a few days after Amy Fisher was arraigned for putting a bullet into Mary Jo's head -- to insist to a skeptical Howard that he'd never had an affair with the gun-toting teen-ager. Actually, the peak moment was Stern's hilarious deadpan reaction to hearing Buttafuoco's voice on the line: "Somehow, I knew you'd be a listener.")
Of course, what may be at work here is not ethnic determinism but Massapequa determinism. And yet there is at least one famous Long Island personage who seems to endorse the theory that some personal-cultural critical mass is achieved by bringing together the highly fissionable Italian and Jewish temperaments in the same body: Amy Fisher herself. Or at least her "autobiography." That book, "My Story," is a more thought-provoking work than one might suppose, thanks mainly to Amy's co-author, Sheila Weller, whose previous book was about Amagansett's cross-dressing stockbroker spouse-slayer, Joseph Pikul. In chapters that alternate with Amy's, Weller conscientiously seeks out sociologists and ethnologists in the hope of finding some explanation for Amy's explosive psyche.
What she suggests is that Amy's split-level ethnic identity was the source of the trouble: Amy was fleeing her Jewish side (or at least in flight from her Jewish father) and seeking danger -- a walk on the wilder side of her Italian heritage -- with rough-talking, gangster-moll-manque Italian girlfriends and tough guy car culture.
Weller traces the roots of Long Island car Kustomizing culture to the courtship rituals of the Sicilian ancestors of Guyland Italians who painted their wagons in gaudy colors to draw the attention of prospective brides. Weller's appreciation of the central role of car culture in the Mid-Island does help to explain to outsiders something not well understood. Joey and his body shop are often discussed as if he and his profession were some down-market, unfashionable, grunge-work occupation, something low-rent like Wilson's garage, the seed of the fatal love triangle in "Gatsby."
Outsiders don't realize that Complete Auto Body was a kind of Capital of Car Culture on the South Shore; Joey was a king, a magus of this world, a prince of the realm to Amy when she came to him for body work and customizing (he pin-striped her flashy white Dodge Daytona with the gentrified Klassy version of her name: Aimee).
Still, I find theories about "something in the blood" just as unpersuasive as those about "something in the water." They don't approach the heart of the matter -- that Long Island something in the soul. Which brings us to what might be called Great Chain of Wanna-Being Theory.
I had an epiphany on this subject in the aftermath of a fascinating conversation with Rob Weiss, the 26-year-old, first-time director of the recently released "Amongst Friends," a sort of Five Towns "Mean Streets." Weiss's film is the first I know that actually dares to let Long Island be Long Island. Previous films like Hal Hartley's "The Unbelievable Truth," praised by outsiders for its strong authentic Guyland flavor, actually seem, to this native son, to shy away from showing the Uncongenial Truth of the real thing, to attenuate raw Guyland vitality for fear perhaps it would overwhelm the uninitiated. (And nobody in Hartley's film speaks with a real Long Island accent.)
"Amongst Friends" doesn't shrink from strong Guyland flavors and accents. Weiss revels in them, wallows in them with, yes, a kind of perverse pride. Indeed, his film may represent the opening shot in a counteroffensive against the prevailing derisive suburb-from-hell light in which the Guyland has been seen lately. An up-front, in-your-face, yes, we're-a-suburb-from-hell-and-we-like-it-like-that attitude. Long Island Pride at last.
And just in time. One gets tired of Long Island serving as a whipping boy, the archetype of uncool for the self-proclaimed hip. As in this recent exchange between the comedian Rosie O'Donnell (from Commack) and Madonna in this month's Mademoiselle:
Madonna: You know, Ro, you're the only person I know from Long Island who's funny.
O'Donnell: Not true -- Jerry Seinfeld.
Madonna: Well, I don't think he's funny.
While I agree with her about Seinfeld, it's unfair to blame Long Island. Even if he is from Massapequa and acts like he's from the Five Towns.
The Five Towns -- those enclaves of wealth, notorious for nouveau riche attitude -- are really a kind of test for the rest of us from Long Island, a challenge to the inclusiveness of Long Island Pride: Do we disown them or defend them? And which Five Towns are they? As long ago as 1963, in his first novel, "V.," Thomas Pynchon raised the question of the Phantom Fifth Town. One of his characters, Rachel Owlglass, a Bennington hipster chick, "came from the Five Towns on the South Shore of Long Island," Pynchon wrote. "An area comprising Malverne, Lawrence, Cedarhurst, Hewlett and Woodmere, and sometimes Long Beach and Atlantic Beach, although no one has ever thought of calling it the Seven Towns."
In fact, indignant Five Towners have told me Pynchon made an egregious error in this list: Inwood, not Malverne, they insist, belongs in the magic circle of the inner five. Perhaps, at last, here is the explanation for Pynchon's legendary reclusiveness: for the last 30 years he has been so ashamed of this mistake he's never dared show his face again. (Could it be that he's hiding in Inwood, the town he erased from his list?)
Amused and a little bit bitter about the Five Towns the way most Long Islanders outside them are -- the Five Towns are Long Island's Long Island -- Pynchon depicts them as a kind of fairy-tale kingdom of sheltered princesses, "like so many Rapunzels within the magic frontiers of a country where the elfin architecture of Chinese restaurants, seafood palaces and split-level synagogues is often enchanting as the sea. . . . Only the brave escape."
Rob Weiss speaks as someone who's looked at the Five Towns from both sides now. He grew up in middle-of-the-middle-class Baldwin, but his father made enough money (organizing gambling junkets to Atlantic City) to enable Weiss to transfer from Baldwin High to Woodmere Academy, the haute Five Towns private day school. Weiss told me that although he'd seen it from the outside, once inside the heart of the beast he still was shocked by the frenzied conspicuous-consumption culture among his Benz and Beamer-driving fellow students at Woodmere. In Baldwin (home of Joey Buttafuoco's Complete Auto Body Shop), Weiss says, "you had an identity, you were a jock, you were a brain, whatever you were, you were. At Woodmere, it was what you had, what brand, it was a whole wannabe scene."
The Phantom Shifting Fifth Town Problem seems to grow out of the wannabe syndrome. Weiss and I were talking about the difficulty -- even natives have it -- of recalling exactly which five towns were the Five Towns. How people who live near the Five Towns frequently seem to blur the boundaries by including their own little hamlet among the fab five. In the course of one of several exploratory trips to the Guyland recently, I found myself discussing the Five Towns with a waitress in a diner in Baldwin (the one where Joey Buttafuoco eats breakfast, she boasted). "I'm from the Five Towns," she said. When I asked her which one, she said, "Oh, Lynbrook," which is close geographically but not otherwise. In addition to Pynchon's Phantom Fifth Town wannabes, Atlantic Beach and Long Beach, I've also heard residents of Oceanside and all the Hewlett clones -- Hewlett Harbor, Hewlett Bay Park, Hewlett Neck -- include themselves in. (There's even a "Five Towns College" located in . . . Dix Hills.)
On the other hand, those actually in the Five Towns, if you believe Weiss's film, all want to be somewhere else -- or someone else. He gives us Jewish gangster wannabees, blunt-spoken, Blunt-smokin' Bugsy Siegels "walking the killer streets of Hewlett Harbor," as one character's girlfriend sarcastically observes. He gives us "16-year-old Jewish kids thinking they were Flavor Flav" (the Public Enemy rap star who was in fact a Freeport native). Everyone else wants to be a player in Manhattan or Hollywood. Weiss, who just moved to Los Angeles himself, told me he's "amazed at how much Hollywood is Five Towns" and cites players like Scott Rudin and Brandon Tartikoff as Five Towns transplants. (Tartikoff corrected the record, saying people "automatically assume I'm from Great Neck or one of the Five Towns, but I'm really from Freeport"; he credits his middle-of-the-middle-class Freeport roots for his legendary ability to feel the pulse of the suburban, baby boomer, TV generation. Rudin is actually from Baldwin.)
After talking with Weiss, I was left with this vision: everyone outside the Five Towns wanting to be inside and everyone inside wanting to be something, somewhere, someone else.
The intellectual historian Arthur O. Lovejoy characterized the pervasive hierarchical structure of Western thought as a "Great Chain of Being," one that links the lower realms of imperfection and error upward to ever purer regions of divine perfection. What we have on the South Shore of Long Island is a Great Chain of Wanna-Being, a series of communities linked together by longing to be something else, something more. Indeed, suddenly the true meaning of the "Long" in Long Island, the secret hidden in the name itself, blazed forth: it stands for longing.
Longing. Amy longed. Sol longed desperately. Joel longed murderously. Walt Whitman longed lustfully. Walter Hudson, all 1,200 pounds of him, longed hungrily. It's the soulful longing you hear in doo-wop songs, always and forever popular on Long Island. And the soulless, flat-affect longing you hear in David Byrne's "Psycho Killer."
The locus classicus of Long Island longing, of course, is that image of Gatsby, the eternal iconic wannabe, standing on the West Egg pier, yearning for the green light of East Egg -- a cosmic longing that is both romantic and real estate-driven. One that unites him with the Roslyn resident longing to live in Roslyn Harbor and the Baldwin body shop owner longing for the forbidden Merrick princess.
But I prefer a more humble, more grungy than Gatsbyesque image of Long Island longing. Not someone stretching out his arms to a mansion across a moonlit channel, but the orphaned Islip garbage barge searching the oil-slicked waters of America's coastline, forlornly longing for a place to unload its cargo, a home for the wretched refuse of Long Island's shores.
As someone who grew up within the boundaries of Islip Township, watching weeks of coverage of this epic odyssey of humiliation and rejection, I found it hard not to identify with the brave little barge as it was turned away from landfill after landfill all down the Atlantic coast and across the Gulf of Mexico. North Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas -- all turned it away; then Mexico, Belize, the Bahamas: no one would take Long Island's garbage! It was hard not to feel that what was being enacted was a metaphor, a dramatization of the disdain mainland culture had for Long Island itself.
I came to admire the plucky, never-say-die spirit of the barge. And felt a perverse kind of vindication that amazing week not long ago when three national television networks devoted their primest of prime time to the Amy and Joey story: at last Long Island trash had found a home.
A UNIFIED FIELD theory of longing would go a long way toward explaining what sometimes seems like an epidemic of desperate -- and often desperately incompetent -- spouse-murder plots on the Guyland. Recently I immersed myself in some 10 years of tabloid clippings on sensational Long Island homicides and came away with two powerful impressions. First, that the most sensational ones were almost always intrafamily homicides or spouse slayings. Now it's true that, cross-culturally, homicides among intimates occur more frequently than "stranger" homicides. But in another sense of the word, there's no doubt Long Island has some of the stranger family homicides, stranger and more desperate. That was the second impression I had from study of the tabloid clips: the desperate longing to get the deed done -- however bizarrely, incompetently or self-revealingly -- often proved to be the undoing of the doer.
Consider this 1988 New York Post story, not one of the most sensational but representative of the broad midrange of Long Island spouse slayings. It appeared under the headline:
 
 
ACCUSED HUBBY-KILLER'S HUNT FOR HIT MAN
 The trial testimony therein described a woman who might be called the Ancient Mariner of Spouse Slayers -- she soliciteth one of three:
"A Long Island housewife on trial for arranging her husband's murder openly sought a hit man several times, witnesses testified."
The key word here is "openly." She "tried to hire a fellow church member, a county official and an undercover cop to kill [her husband] prior to his November 1986 bludgeoning death."
"Are you connected to the mob?" she asked a county official with an Italian surname shortly after meeting him. "I'm looking for someone to kill my husband."
Yes, surely this goes on in the rest of America, but not, I feel, with the urgency Long Islanders bring to it. One gets the feeling reading the clip file that on any given night the landscape of Long Island is crowded with bars where husbands and wives are overtly, ineptly, longingly seeking someone to kill their spouses. Although it seems that husbands come more naturally to it, are more likely to employ a do-it-yourself approach than a hired gun.
Consider the recent case of Dr. Robert Reza, a distinguished Bayport pulmonary specialist who was having an affair with the organist at his church. (Hadn't he ever heard of the Massapequa church secretary Jessica Hahn, Jim and Tammy Faye Bakker's nemesis?) So badly did the doctor long to kill his wife, he concocted a scheme to shoot and strangle her, then raced down to Washington to establish an alibi. Where he was shocked, shocked (he told police) when he learned his wife had been murdered by an "intruder" in his absence. All the while leaving a paper trail of travel times that succeeded in proving he and only he could have committed the crime.
The classic Guyland twist to this story is that when the doctor's alibi began to crumble, he confessed -- and switched to what might be called the Guyland Defense, which, as I recall from watching the trial on the Court TV channel, amounted to asking the jury to decide that living on Long Island itself was enough to engender a homicidal depression severe enough to be exculpatory. (The jury declined to accept this novel courtroom strategem.)
If we accept for the moment that it is not the power lines, not ethnic blending, not demonic possession (despite four sequels to "The Amityville Horror," which as we all know was "based on fact," I remain unpersuaded that the literal Gate to Hell is located a few blocks south of Montauk Highway; the Gate to Heck, maybe) -- that it's longing that makes Long Island Long Island, then what is the source of that force field of yearning that seethes beneath our stony topsoil? (Another injury to a Guylander's self-esteem: to learn as early as ninth grade that Long Island is geologically "terminal moraine," the refuse left behind by the melting of the last glacier -- in effect, the dumping ground for the last garbage barge of the ice age.)
One cannot ignore the role of class and status in fueling the engine of longing. The fact is that almost all of Long Island -- if one sets aside the old money Gold Coast on the North Shore and scattered enclaves of poverty -- can be said to be middle class. Which only proves how little is said by saying "middle class." Long Island is an elaborate, exquisitely hierarchical status structure within the middle class. The more fine the gradations, the more subtly demarked the differences, the more totemic power each gradation is invested with; the more fiercely each step up is coveted and flaunted. Perhaps beneath it all are the imperatives of real-estate rhetoric, designed to generate profits by creating largely metaphysical status distinctions among otherwise indistinguishable entities like Hewlett, Hewlett Harbor, Hewlett Neck and Hewlett Bay Park.
I know I was not immune to the pervasive inculcation of status distinctions. I recall in high school being made acutely aware of my family's precise position on the Great Chain of Car Model Status. The fact that we owned a Chevrolet Bel Air, which in the early 60's was one painful step below the top-of-the-line Impala and one deeply relieved step above the bare-boned generic Biscayne, signified more than the ludicrously insignificant threefold variations in exterior chrome trim. They represented three distinct worlds.
While I could see through the shallowness, the falseness of those distinctions, I can't deny that, even so, they got to me: every once in a while I found myself, shamefully, wishing we had the damned Impala.
The obverse side of the longing for the status rung just out of reach is the fear of slipping down. Barbara Ehrenreich once made a pretty persuasive argument that the epidemic of spouse violence on Long Island, the number of orders of protection violated by homicidal husbands stalking their exes, might have at its source the desperation of the declassed: the men who, because of the long-stagnant economy, lash out in panic at the sight of the rungs ripping out of the ladder below them, a process made more painful by the hyperacute consciousness of class on the Guyland.
A shockingly different and rather more cold-blooded explanation for the spouse-murder syndrome comes not from sociology but sociobiology. Call it Selfish Gene Demolition Derby Theory.
A researcher brought to my attention a rather astonishing study that appeared in a 1988 issue of the respected journal Science. Entitled "Evolutionary Social Psychology and Family Homicide," the study exhibits the remarkable cold-bloodedness of the sociobiological perspective that explains human behavior as a product of the drive by the "selfish gene" to maximize its posterity by any means necessary, however amoral. The authors refer to infanticide, for instance, as a strategy for maximizing the efficiency "of lifetime parental effort."
And most cold-blooded of all, they argue on the basis of diverse cultural studies (ranging from the Ache Indians of Paraguay and tribal horticulturists to Australian baby batterings and North American spouse killers) that family homicides of the type Long Island has become famous for are adaptive. In other words, a neo-Darwinian rationale for intrafamily murder! Parents who kill unhealthy or maladaptive (or adoptive) children, men who kill unfaithful wives are driven to it by the deeply rooted longing of the selfish gene to triumph in the reproductive derby of evolution. By weeding out the weak links on its own genetic team and cutting down the competition, these murderers maximize the proliferation of their own genes.
Murdering a wife can be counterproductive for a husband's short-term prospects in the reproductive derby, the authors concede, but this "hardly gainsays its candidate status as a masculine psychological adaptation." By this logic, the more sensational, the more attention-getting the murder, the more it serves this loathsome "masculine psychological adaptation" by terrorizing women into remaining faithful.
While this thesis confirmed my skepticism about the value of sociobiological thinking, it had a deeply disheartening effect on me. The good news is that some scientists believe Long Island may be on the very cutting edge of the evolution of the species. The bad news is that it's because of our penchant for killing those closest to us in attention-getting ways.
I couldn't help it: something about the savage sociobiological vision of this "Devolution Derby" made me think of the Islip Speedway, a now-defunct motor racing arena in my home township, the one that gave birth to the Demolition Derby, perhaps the signature contribution of the Guyland to American popular culture.
Invented in 1958 by a flamboyant Long Island promoter named Larry Mendelsohn -- who later went on to dream up the even more suicidal and still popular "Figure-Eight Racing" course (think about it) -- the Demolition Derby cannot be topped as Long Island spectacle, and metaphor.
What you had in the Demolition Derby was a couple dozen standard American road-hog sedans that would, when the gun sounded, begin to ram into each other viciously, with intent to maim, cripple and destroy. Until, after hours of screeching, smoke-belching, metal-ripping collisions, the last carcarcass still moving . . . won.
Oh yes, there was one crucial twist that made the event even more bizarre and emblematic: strategic considerations caused the drivers to smash into each other in reverse. Which made the spectacle a kind of parable of Darwinian evolution by annihilation; post-industrial America on rewind to self-destruct; Gatsby's boats beating backward against the tide of time.
The speedway is gone now, although the Demolition Derby as a concept has gone national, according to Marty Himes of the Himes Museum of Motor Racing Nostalgia, which is operated out of Himes's house and grounds in my hometown, Bay Shore. Himes added a curious, chilling footnote to Speedway lore. After the death of the Demolition Derby inventor, Mendelsohn (suicide, says Himes), the new operators of the Speedway, Barbara and Jim Cromarty, moved into a house on the South Shore that they'd purchased from a savings bank. The Cromartys knew the house they were moving into had been the site of the bloody DeFeo slayings of 1974 (a son had slaughtered his parents, as well as his two sisters and two brothers). What the Cromartys didn't know was that the previous owner of the Dutch Colonial house, George Lutz, was about to release a book, to be followed by a movie, that identified the Speedway operators' new place as home to . . . the Amityville Horror!
There was something appropriate about this figure-eight convergence of Guyland myths that linked, however tenuously, the Demolition Derby to the Gate of Hell. And made me wonder: Why had this ritual, this spectacular enactment of the longing for self-destruction sprung up in my backyard, of all places? It was so boring and uneventful, so generic, when I was growing up. But maybe that was it -- the generic rather than the genetic explanation.
The Guyland has long seemed to suffer from the curse of genericism. Consider the very name itself. Couldn't they have taken a little more time, come up with something a little more colorful, expressive. Or was it just, "What shall we call this long island off the coast here?"
"Let's call it Long Island."
And so, rather than a name, it was a category, a generic creature from the word go.
Perhaps we can take some comfort in believing that we are the true originals from which generic American culture has been generated. I know my former employer, King Kullen, always boasted it was the first supermarket in America. We had the first Levittown. California may not have been far behind, but its suburbs, its split-levels and ranch houses, are indisputably modeled on ours.
There is a nice resonance to Pynchon's line about ranch houses and split-levels lacking "a second story," lacking, in other words, another dimension, lacking mystery, secrets. Driving some to inscribe secretive second stories on the landscape -- or on their fellow citizens -- in whatever sensational way they can. I know I can recall feeling the contraction of my horizons when my family moved from a big old three-story Bay Shore place my grandmother once operated as a boarding house and that housed three generations of our extended family to a brand new nuclear-family-only generic ranch house in neighboring Brightwaters, with its single inescapable story. It was a kind of sensory deprivation that, I'm sure, drove me to the sensation-seeking culture of journalism. I'm sure that his adolescence in nearby West Babylon helped make Geraldo Geraldo. ("Esthetically speaking, growing up on Long Island sucked," Geraldo declared elegantly in his autobiography, "Exposing Myself.")
It also explains the sensational effect Pynchon's second novel, "The Crying of Lot 49," had on me when I discovered it in high school. I remember going around and inscribing on phone booths grafitti in the shape of the "muted post horn" -- the novel's symbol for a centuries-old, conspiratorial secret society operating even now in Pynchon's tract-house suburbs. Here, at last, was the longed-for "second story" to suburban reality, however paranoid. And I remember thinking when I first read Pynchon's description of the "ordered swirl" of suburban tract-house patterns seen from above as a kind of "printed circuit," one that revealed "a hieroglyphic sense of concealed meaning" -- finally someone understands.
But I didn't really understand until I'd spent some time in the ordered swirl of Levittown, researching a story about the Ur-burb's creator, Bill Levitt. In order to see the fabled circuit board tracts from the inside, I'd posed as a prospective home buyer and let a gold-jacketed Century 21 realtor show me through Levittown homes for sale.
What I saw was a revelation. Most people's image of Levittown has been formed by the famous photos taken immediately after it became notorious in the late 40's. Aerial photos showing an endless grid of treeless streets lined with bare, stencil-faced boxes, houses for pod people, breeders of conformity: soulless generic housing, social critics said, would produce soulless generic burb clones.
Seeing Levittown firsthand four decades later was something of a shock. The place has grown positively hairy with a veritable frenzy of individuation.
Each of the original cookie-cutter homes had sprouted dormers, add-ons, extensions, carapaces of nearly baroque, Dickensian singularity. The interiors I saw were virtual Old Curiosity Shops of built-ins, floor-to-ceiling trellises of shelves, knickknack-crammed nooks and crannies -- a thousand different do-it-yourself fantasies. Levittown turned out to be not the epitome of suburban self-abnegation but a tribute to the ineradicable drive for self-expression. A drive that can sometimes turn weird: I think it's no accident that Levittown gave birth to Bill Griffith, the talented creator of the subversive comic cult figure Zippy the Pinhead, an unshaven, befuddled and demented clown who wanders the suburban landscape issuing mutant aphorisms from a mall-damaged brain.
IF THERE CAN BE SAID TO BE A Long Island psyche, perhaps it has something of the contours of those Levittown houses, the product of that same intense longing to inscribe an individual identity on a generic one-story setting, something that has grown hairy, gnarly, idiosyncratic, eccentric and many-storied in reaction. Something like Joel Rifkin's garden.
I believe Howard Stern was the first to take note of how truly strange Joel's garden was; Howard called it "that Edward Scissorhands garden." There have been conflicting reports about whether Joel or his mother designed the garden in front of the East Meadow house they shared, or whether it was a collaboration. And perhaps no one would have paid much attention to this horticultural extravaganza had it not sprouted, blossomed, in front of the home of a horticultural serial killer who had been planting bodies all over the landscape as well. But spooky television news clips of that garden at night made it seem as if it, too, wasa product of that same desperate frenzy for individuation, here turned sinister.
Instead of the standard, featureless suburban lawn, one glimpsed a complicated jumble, if not jungle, of bushes and hedges; thorny, briary shapes that, in retrospect, can be seen as a self-portrait of his own state of mind. Joel Rifkin's garden as the internal landscape of the Long Island psyche, barely kept in trim, only provisionally under control.
But wait. Let's not end this in Joel Rifkin's garden. Not without giving some thought to the positive redeeming qualities of Long Island. I could talk about the beaches. I could talk about the diners (I love the diners). I could talk about the peace of mind the lawns and trees brought to people like my father, who grew up in Brooklyn, lived through the Depression and the war and found the American dream on the same streets that became a nightmare of boredom to me.
But I believe the truly redemptive Long Island qualities can be found in some of the darkest, most unlikely places -- for instance, Howard Stern's sense of humor and Katie Beers's dungeon.
What Howard Stern epitomizes at his best is Long Island's militant irreverence. The way Guylanders (the lifers not the wannabees) refuse to be impressed by celebrities, dignitaries, airs and names of the sort so dear to New Yorkers, Manhattanites in particular.
We know them too well, is the Guyland attitude. We've witnessed their slavish, degrading status-crazed behavior in the Hamptons. We know they're no different, certainly no better, than us. And they hate us for it. They hate us because they know we know. Which goes a long way to explain why Long Island's crimes and misdemeanors have been so magnified by the media lens of nearby Manhattan to look even more monstrous than they are.
And what about Katie Beers's dungeon? Reading over accounts of her imprisonment, watching news clips of her release, I found myself genuinely moved by the courage and spirit of the 10-year-old;by the matter-of-fact cheerfulness that carried her through her ordeal and saw her emerge from her dungeon smiling bravely -- even willing, in that very moment, to make a gesture of comfort to the sobbing figure of her captor as he was led away to his dungeon.
Long Island is like that in this sense: Consigned in the mind of America to a dark place not unlike Katie Beers's dungeon, locked up there by the media, the Guyland, like Little Katie, has learned to smile through the abuse and persevere. Perhaps because it knows a secret, a secret about the future.
THE SPACEPLEX, St. James, L.I. This towering pinball inferno, this laser video-game pandemonium the size of a rocket hangar, this Gothic cathedral of a cyberpunk sensorium, is stuck out in the middle of the middle of the central-island midlands, somewhere between eerie Lake Ronkonkoma (the pervasive local folklore held that Ronkonkoma was "the only lake in the world with no bottom," which gave rise to rumors of creatures haunting the bottomless nether regions) and the scarily generic Smithhaven Mall.
The Spaceplex was a favorite haunt of Katie Beers, who was something of a pinball wizard in her own right. The Spaceplex was where she could lose herself, or at least distract herself from the warring dysfunctional families who were pinballing her back and forth between them. The Spaceplex was where Katie thought she was going when she was kidnapped by her "family friend," John Esposito, and where he told police she'd disappeared from, after he'd locked her into the dungeon he'd built beneath the floorboards of his Bay Shore home.
The Spaceplex is an awesome vision of a run-down-Blade-Runnerish future, unlike anything to be found anywhere else in America -- yet. Entering the 30-foot-high, 45,000-square-foot rocket hangar is like going through the Gate of Heck. This is Satin's realm: a long black strobe-lighted Techno-throbbing tunnel leads to a soaring, inky dark, cathedral-like cave, its hollows filled with the echoing caterwauling din of a million boops, beeps, boinks and bong-bong-bongs; its blackness flickering with the reflections of a million flashing sensors, registering a billion acts of virtual violence. The official name is the Spaceplex Family Fun Center. It is really Long Island as the virtual future.
Not that I didn't have a great time there. I rediscovered the joy of pinball 10 generations more advanced than the games I played at Katie Beers's age. Ten generations more violent and deranged: I played Blasteroids, Road Riot, Spy Killer, Cabal, Martial Combat, Time Killers, Laser Ghost, Robotron, Rampage, Line of Fire, Lethal Enforcers, Sky Shark and Black Knight (my favorite).
After a while, communing with the pinballs in the enveloping Spaceplex darkness, I felt a kind of mind meld with my Guyland past -- the eternal search for distraction, the trench warfare against tedium. But there was something about the Spaceplex that reminded me of another place, another run-down future place: the Space Coast. That's what Cocoa Beach and the other towns along the Canaveral coast of Florida took to calling themselves during the space boom, when we were still going to the moon, when it looked like the Space Coast might be the Homeport, the Spaceplex for a Trekkie-like Federation of the Planets in the not-unforeseeable future.
They were still calling it the Space Coast some years later when I spent some time down there covering a shuttle launch in the aftermath of the boom, after the Space Goldrush. When the only vibrant optimism about the power of space imagery was pretty much limited to a topless joint in a strip mall that advertised "topless space suit strippers." When the Space Coast was on the verge of becoming the first Space Ghost Town.
There's that same unmistakable sense of a lost future in the Long Island Spaceplex, a peeling-vinyl, soiled-Astroturf, diminished vision of the future that is so much less than the one we were promised, the one we longed for. A sense of the aimless derangement that disillusion over a lost future produces.
I think that's why that beautiful, wistful R.E.M. tribute to Andy Kaufman should qualify as the true Long Island anthem. The song conjures up both the suburban rec-room-in-the-finished-basement past ("Let's play Twister, let's play Risk. . . .") and that sense of an abandoned future, too. I'd wondered at first what the meaning of the refrain "If you believe they put a man on the moon" meant, until I saw the Spaceplex and understood. The future as ghost town: the age of heroic futurist odysseys is so far past, it seems only a rumor they put a man on the moon. Laser Ghost and Blasteroids are the only legacy of the lost illusion.
Long Island, after all, was supposed to be the future before the future. We always had a head start on the life cycle of suburban baby-boom culture because we were the first-born burbs of the baby boom; a burbland created almost all at once, very fast and virtually ex nihilo, right after the war, a self-contained social organism. An organism whose sociobiological clock started ticking a little earlier than subsequent burbs, and whose shrill alarms now seem to signal that it has raced through its mature stage and is now rocketing headlong into the social-organism equivalent of senile dementia.
And so the America that laughs at Long Island's nonstop Satinist Demolition Derby, the America that looks down on Long Island as something alien, some exotic, carnivalesque pageant separable from its mainstream because it's separate from the mainland, may have to think again. May have to learn to say of this unruly island what Prospero said of the unruly Caliban at the close of "The Tempest": "This thing of darkness I acknowledge mine."
Because when America laughs at Long Island, it's laughing in the face of its own onrushing future.

GRAPHIC: Photos: 1. John Esposito -- A skilled contractor, he concealed the dungeon he built for Katie Beers beneath the house at top left (Joel Sternfeld for The New York Times); source of lipstick on the lions is unknown. (Vic Delucia/The New York Times; 2. Richard Kasso -- He hanged himself in his jail cell after his arrest for the satanist cult murder of a fellow high-school dropout. (Bettmann Newsphotos); 3. Jessica Hahn -- This Massapequa femme fatale brought down the empire of the evangelist Jim Bakker. (Vic Delucia/The New York Times); 4. Robert Golub -- This unemployed steroid-juiced body builder strangled and mutilated his neighbor, Kelly Ann Tinyes. (Associated Press); 5. Gary Wilensky -- His Roslyn High yearbook named this future tennis coach and dungeon builder "Best Dancer." (Steve Berman); 6. Robert Reza -- He mourned his wife's murder by an "intruder" until he confessed to the killing, after an affair with his church organist. (Associated Press); 7. Cheryl Pierson -- She hired the "Homeroom Hit Man," a fellow student at her high school in Selden, to kill the father she claimed had sexually abused her. (The New York Times); 8. Richard Angelo -- This "Angel of Death" nurse at Good Samaritan Hospital helped four patients on the road to death by injecting them with muscle relaxants. (The New York Times); 9. Matthew Solomon -- He grieved for the disappearance of his bride, until he confessed to killing her and disposing of her body in garbage bags after a Christmas Eve quarrel. (Associated Press); 10. Walter Hudson -- His home became a prison when he reached 1,200 pounds; his casket had to be lowered into the ground by crane. (David Bookstaver/Associated Press); Joey Buttafuoco and his father, Caspar, at their Complete Auto Body Shop in Baldwin. (Joel Sternfeld for The New York Times)(pg. 24-25); Split-Level Personality: A cyclist wheels by the East Meadow home of Joel Rifkin, the mild-mannered horticulturalist accused of planting bodies all over the landscape as well. (Photograph by Les Stone/Sygma)(pg. 26); The Real Amityville Horror: Coffins bearing the bodies of the DeFeo family slaughtered by son Ronald in their home, later to be dubbed "The Amityville Horror" house. (Photograph by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. 27); The Face That Launched 1,000 TV Movies: Amy Fisher, hair apparent, leaves court in Mineola after failing in a bid to reduce bail. (Vic Delucia/The New York Times)(pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS CULTS & SECTS (90%); MURDER (74%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); TRENDS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (68%); CHRISTMAS (68%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, RON THOMAS RUGGLES PYNCHON JR (73%); HOWARD STERN (57%); GERALDO RIVERA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



532 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 9; Column 5; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
For Papa Chabrol, It's All in the Family

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

DATELINE: LAC DE SAINT-FERREOL, France

 BODY:
Visiting Claude Chabrol on the set of his latest film was a bit like intruding on a family vacation. His stepdaughter, Cecile Maistre, was scurrying around as assistant director. His third wife, Aurore, was in charge of the script. And his son Thomas was playing a waiter in the movie, "L'Enfer," or "Hell." Warm weather, scanty clothes and a bucolic lakeside setting here in southwest France added to the relaxed mood. And, of course, there was Mr. Chabrol himself, jovial as ever, puffing away at his pipe, presiding over the scene like a benevolent squire.
Not that he makes relaxed films. His 45th, "Betty," which opened in New York on Friday, is the tale of a wife and mother, played by Marie Trintignant, who tumbles into alcoholism and disgrace after being chased from her home in Paris for infidelity. His 46th movie, which has yet to be released in the United States, was about the Vichy regime's collaboration with Nazi Germany. The film he is now shooting is also no sidesplitter. In "L'Enfer," Emmanuelle Beart, seen most recently in Claude Sautet's "Coeur en Hiver," plays Nelly, a beautiful young woman whose husband is driven to distraction by jealousy. 
 But that's just the movies. Mr. Chabrol's idea of life, at least on location, is quite different. "Some directors can only work in tension -- and I understand that," he said, sitting in a shaded garden during a break between scenes. "For me, it's the opposite. I feel human relations are more important than a film. I realized long ago that you can never be sure if the film will be good or bad. If, on top of that, people are at each other's throats for three months, it's an absolute nightmare. So if they can enjoy being together, it's less disastrous if the film is a flop."
Miss Beart, working with Mr. Chabrol for the first time, has found the experience surprising. "I have always liked the tension on sets," the 28-year-old actress explained, "because I have always felt they were moments of great intensity, of violence, passion, hate, love. But for the first time since I began in this business, I find I'm working with pleasure. And I think it is Chabrol who provokes that. He creates pleasure."
At 63, Mr. Chabrol clearly enjoys life -- his family, his friends, the company of women, and good wine and cuisine -- but he is also self-deprecating about his work, about the "miserable" films he has made. "And I know when I have made a bad film," he said. "Not while I'm shooting. On the set, I think I can save everything. But once it's over, you then see the stupid things you've done. You say, that's not possible. It's awful!" He laughs easily, frequently.
Of course, he can afford to remember his failures because, after an intense career of movie making, his many French and foreign admirers remember his successes. Mr. Chabrol's first two films -- "Le Beau Serge" (1958) and "Les Cousins" (1959) -- won him a place alongside France's New Wave directors, Jean-Luc Godard, Eric Rohmer and Jacques Rivette. Then came the highly acclaimed "La Femme Infidele" (1968), "Le Boucher" (1969), "Violette" (1977), "Inspecteur Lavardin" (1986) and "Story of Women" (1988). He makes on average one film a year, usually working with his own scripts based on existing texts.
In 1990, Mr. Chabrol adapted the Gustave Flaubert classic "Madame Bovary," probably the most widely read novel in the French language. The project was a risk, as every French moviegoer has his (and, above all, her) own idea of how Emma Bovary and her lustful slide to doom should be portrayed. While he was faithful to the book in the extreme, the film -- the eighth screen version of the steamy 19th-century novel -- received mixed reviews here. Mr. Chabrol, who cared deeply for the movie, still feels indignant about the response. "I read more crass remarks about that film in France than about any I can remember," he said. "I had the impression the critics had not read or had not understood Flaubert. Fortunately, Flaubert experts in France and abroad understood the film, so that reassured me."
His next film, "Betty," adapted from Georges Simenon's 1960 novel by the same name (and with a musical score by another son, Matthieu), was more warmly received here. It is the sort of psychodrama the French enjoy. A 28-year-old woman tries to escape the boredom of her stiflingly bourgeois married life by having casual affairs. When caught, she is forced to sign away all claim to her children and is thrown out of her home. She wanders from bar to bar and is eventually adopted by Laure, an older woman played by Stephane Audran (Mr. Chabrol's second wife), who installs her in an adjacent room in the Trianon Palace Hotel in Versailles. There, through a whisky haze, she reminisces darkly over her life -- proclaiming herself to be a whore -- before finding a way out.
"I wanted to show you can become attached to a woman, even one who is hardly a saint, just because she is a woman," he explained. "Some American critics who saw the film at festivals said Betty was a dreadful woman, but I never saw it like that. Like it or not, we're in an entirely macho universe. All the advances of feminism are drops of water compared to a social and economic reality that still keeps women as slaves. So can you condemn a slave who rebels? And that's what Betty tries to do. For her, it's a matter of survival. Can we judge her, can we men know what's going on in her head? We really can't -- and that drives us mad."
The mystery of women clearly fascinates Mr. Chabrol -- not only that of Emma, Betty and Nelly but also of the women in his three marriages and half-dozen other "permanent" relationships. "Men are always trying to resolve the question of women with male arguments, with a masculine physiology," he mused. "The problem is that women are not like men. They're built differently; they think very differently." Cecile Maistre arrived to call him back to the set. "I don't understand you," he told her. "Or your mother. I look, I try, but I don't understand." Miss Maistre smiled mischievously at her stepfather and burst out: "It's because you're dumb! Come on, you're needed."
Mr. Chabrol has always been a meticulous film maker, arriving on the set knowing how each scene should be shot. In this case, most of "L'Enfer" takes place inside an old hotel beside the Lac de Saint-Ferreol, 30 miles east of Toulouse. The director sat in the hotel bar, in front of a monitor on which he could watch the filming taking place in the dining room. In this scene, the husband (played by Francois Cluzet), who owns the Hostellerie du Lac, sits glumly at a table and asks the waiter for a cafe creme. His wife, Nelly, waltzes in with one of her children, greets some guests and then joins her husband.
Two rehearsals, four takes, and the 25-second scene was done.
Mr. Chabrol would not reveal the ending of "L'Enfer," which he adapted from a screenplay by the French director Henri-Georges Clouzot, who died in 1977. But it addresses a universal sentiment. "A man who has a strong feeling for his wife ends up being jealous, but does that jealousy drive him mad or does madness make him jealous?" he asked. "Was he mad before or after?" And in that sense, it becomes irrelevant whether Nelly is in fact unfaithful to her husband. "In the beginning, she is flattered when she realizes he is jealous," Miss Beart noted. "She is flattered by the power she has over him." She, also, would not disclose the denouement. "Chabrol always plays with the notion of good and evil. He creates a permanent doubt."
In his last film, "L'Oeil de Vichy," or "Through the Eyes of Vichy," however, he set out to dispel doubt. Angered by a Paris court's ruling (subsequently overturned) that Paul Touvier, a former Vichy militia leader, could not be tried for crimes against humanity for ordering the execution of seven Jews, Mr. Chabrol made a documentary using only propaganda newsreels put out by the Vichy regime. "I decided it would not be didactic, spelling out the good and the bad," he recalled. "I felt it would be enough to show the newsreels to demonstrate what was happening."
The result was disturbing and controversial. It showed the blatant anti-Semitism of the Vichy Government and raised fears that some young moviegoers would not understand that it was propaganda. The historian Henri Amoureux even suggested it be rated "prohibited for anyone under 60." But Mr. Chabrol was pleased that the polemic helped throw new light on a dark corner of France's past. And he dismissed the idea that young people were confused. He asked Miss Maistre: Were they? "No," she said, "but we were astonished to see the way things were, because we learned nothing about that at school."
For his next film, the director is trying to decide among three different ideas, though he is aware that most of his life's work has been done. So how will he be remembered? "I'd like the ensemble of my films to be considered coherent," he said, re-lighting his pipe. "Which films? I don't know. Attitudes change. When my fourth film, 'Les Bonnes Femmes,' came out, it was savaged, but slowly people came round to it. 'Les Cousins' was very well received, but when I see it now, it seems so stuck in the 1960's." He suddenly laughed at what he was about to say. "Actually, I don't give a hoot what future generations think. I just hope I don't die artistically before my own death."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The director filming "Betty" -- "Can we judge her, can we men know what's going on in her head?" (MK2 Productions)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BETTY (MOVIE); ENFER, L' (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (71%); GERMANY (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (71%); GERMANY (55%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FILM (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); WOMEN (78%); STEPPARENTS (73%); 

PERSON: CHABROL, CLAUDE; RIDING, ALAN EMMANUELLE BEART (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



533 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1920 words

HEADLINE: Again, That Hankering

BYLINE: By DEANNE STILLMAN; Deanne Stillman is working on a book about surf culture, to be published next year by Dell.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
At the Chicago World's Fair in 1893, the historian Frederick Jackson Turner startled the intellectual establishment when he read a paper asserting that "the true point of view in the history of this nation is not the Atlantic Coast. It is the Great West." And it was now closed, according to a United States Census Bureau report of the same time, fully restrained by reservations, barbed wire, mining claims, civil disputes over grazing rights and the railroad.
A century later, the West is further hobbled by planes, automobiles, rest stops and all-night minimarts whose offerings of lottery tickets allow them to pose as 20th-century gold mines. Yet in the country's heart of hearts, the frontier remains forever open, waiting to be rediscovered whenever America needs to go home. Judging from the bafflement that attends the mind-boggling riddles of today -- is it O.K. to lie, cheat, steal? -- this is just such a time. 
 To reclaim the title of an old Glenn Ford western, "The 3:10 to Yuma" is leaving -- again. The national commandment to "Go West, young . . . whatever you call yourself" has wrested its power back from other periodically operating watchwords, such as "Greed is good" and "Eric Clapton is God." And it is reverberating in every aspect of culture today, in film, television, art, pop music and literature. In fact, if you take the number of handgun owners, multiply it by the number of times Dean Martin fans have seen "Rio Bravo" (12 times for me), and factor in those who have at least one Western item as a household accessory, like a lucky horseshoe, a cactus lamp or twig furniture, it seems as if the whole country is yearning for the time when you didn't have to memorize your PIN number.
After the success of films like "Thelma and Louise," "Dances With Wolves," "Unforgiven" and "Posse," more than a dozen westerns are currently in production and at least a dozen more are in development. (It's not for nothing that Hollywood -- the Xerox machine of America's dreams -- is in the desert, land of the original mirage.) Never a medium to miss the chuck wagon (or the gravy train), the television networks will carry several new series about the West this fall.
Why is Harley Davidson the vehicle of choice among those who are born to be mild? Why is one of every five MTV videos shot in the desert? And where does the guitar player plug in?
This national journey that is both inward and outward bound is being made for several reasons. First, the West is cheap. With the recession-driven trend toward "downsizing" -- a term that vies with "job retraining" for euphemism of the year -- excess is out. The national bank is bust; the look is high-plains drifter.
Second, the West is simple. Which brings us to a pop quiz: Are you ecstatic when you see a tumbleweed? Do you sleep better under the Big Dipper? Do you eat with your hands? A yes to two out of three means that in a previous life you were Pegleg Smith and you should buy a harmonica and quit your job, as various television characters are planning to do this fall.
Third, the West is where the heart is. It's America's primordial sandbox. But where is it really? Did it ever exist? Dancehall girls died young of venereal disease. Cowboys were drunks. There wasn't any water in the desert. But none of that matters; historians -- who are simply socially acceptable spin doctors -- told the story otherwise, made people want to get there faster. The Donner Party may have been the first to find that shortcuts are a bad idea, but they are hardly the last. Perhaps the final act of spin-doctoring on the subject of "westward ho" will come from Ken ("The Civil War") Burns, whose frontier documentary is scheduled to be shown by PBS in 1996.
Then there is the fourth reason for the current surge of interest in the West. Out here, you can still drive fast. The forerunner of driving fast was riding fast. Thus, the American condition: wandering. The urge to saddle your car and move quickly through time and space has resulted in that ancient national ritual, the road trip, and the sacred texts that have accompanied it: "Roughing It," "The Land of Little Rain," "On the Road," "The Petrified Forest," "American Graffiti," "Baghdad Cafe," "Born to Be Wild," among others.
The road trip would not be possible, or desirable, without the vast stretches of desert space that characterize the West. And, as Wallace Stegner has written, it is this feature -- space, not place (as in the East) -- that infuses the American character, accounting for the intense cultivation of the concept of personal rights. It's a free country. . .
I can do what I want . . . How come the other guy didn't get a ticket? . . . As the land continues to be stripped of its identity, driving fast on the open road, and the geography that invites the act, become touchstones, relics, suitable for framing.
Two current exhibitions here explore the iconography of the West from a contemporary point of view and use popular culture as a way of invoking classic American themes. The first is the photography of David Levinthal, at the Gene Autry Western Heritage Museum in Los Angeles through October, in which we see scenes from America's desert primeval: outlaws rob the Wells Fargo stagecoach, cowboys lasso wild horses, gunslingers have a showdown. But the scenes are literally playful; the figures are toys, placed on sand and fake sagebrush, and the moments are frozen in big, color Polaroid prints.
"I have childhood memories of the films of John Ford, and westerns on television," Mr. Levinthal says. "Some photographers go to Monument Valley. I wanted to deal with the unreality of Western mythology. My imagery is intentionally ambiguous. Some people see it as homage to Remington and Charles Russell, others as a critique of the myth."
"Kustom Kulture: Von Dutch, Ed 'Big Daddy' Roth, Robert Williams and Others -- Customized Cars and Their Effect on the Arts," at the Laguna Art Museum through November, also looks at modern Western mythology. The artists are a triple-header of car culture: Mr. Dutch is the father of modern hot-rod pinstriping; Mr. Roth is the king of car customizers, as well as the creator of "Rat Fink," the notorious Mad magazine character, and Mr. Williams was one of the most radical underground comic illustrators of the 1960's.
"It's our gene disposition to travel, to go to new frontiers," says Bolton Colburn, curator of collections at the museum, referring to the show's reflection of the car's connection with the West. It features classic works like Mr. Dutch's "Flying Eyeball" jacket, Mr. Roth's custom car, "Beatnik Bandit," and a Williams painting entitled "Land of Retinal Delights."
"In California the idea of manifest destiny turned inside out because you can't go any further; you run into the ocean," says Mr. Colburn. "There was a whirlpool effect here. Our connection with the car and freeway is a result of no place else to go. Here the emphasis is on where you can go and how fast you can get there. The desire to go anywhere you want any time you want is our sublimated genetic drive to emigrate."
WHENEVER I FEEL the genetic drive to emigrate, I get in my car and head east, away from Los Angeles, and into the Mojave. I know I am in this most American of deserts when I spot my first Joshua tree, the peculiar-looking plant that grows only in the Mojave and only between 2,000 and 6,000 feet. This is the land of cars without emission controls, of modern outlaws living in abandoned movie sets -- a civics lesson in personal rights, a stage upon which the country's secret self is anything but a mirage.
Various westerns have been shot here, including the 70's classic "Tell Them Willie Boy Was Here," the true story of the so-called last Indian roundup. It features Robert Redford as the reluctant lawman, Robert Blake as the luckless Willie Boy, and Katharine Ross as Willie Boy's Indian paramour. The site of Willie Boy's murder is now marked on local maps and accessible via four-wheel drive, kind of a drive-in geography-imitates-art-imitates-life outdoor museum exhibit.
When you cruise this terrain, you realize that it makes perfect sense that the rock group U2 named their recent album, with its apocalyptic undertone, "Joshua Tree," and it makes perfect sense that on his new release, "Fate of Nations," the rock singer Robert Plant belts out a desert rapture called "29 Palms," site of the Joshua Tree National Monument. "I feel the heat in your desert heart," Mr. Plant sings, driving the stairway to heaven, "leading me back down the road that leads back to you. . ."
Among the various forthcoming westerns and television series, most are shot in the more "classic" desert terrain of Oregon, Texas, Arizona and New Mexico. They include films that reassess great American heroes -- two about "Wyatt Earp" (one with Kevin Costner, the other with Kurt Russell, Robert Mitchum and Charlton Heston), "Maverick" (with Mel Gibson) and "Davy Crockett" (from David and Jerry Zucker). Other westerns coming soon include the all-girl "Outlaws," "The Quick and the Dead," starring Sharon Stone, and "Lane Frost," with Luke Perry playing Lane Frost, the rodeo champion who was recently trampled to death.
On television this fall, in addition to the popular CBS show "Dr. Quinn: Medicine Woman" (with Jane Seymour), viewers can hit the trail with new series like Fox's "Adventures of Brisco County Jr." (about an adventurer with a Harvard law degree who is hired by a group of wealthy businessmen to hunt down the 12 most notorious outlaws); CBS's "Harts of the West" (featuring Beau Bridges as a 41-year-old lingerie salesman who buys a broken-down Nevada ranch to fulfill his lifelong dream of being a cowboy), and CBS's "Walker, Texas Ranger" (starring Chuck Norris as a modern-day lawman who solves crimes the old-fashioned way).
But perhaps the most original western series to hit the airwaves this season is "Ned Blessing: The Story of My Life and Times," also on CBS. Set after the Civil War, the show is about a bandit (Brad Johnson) who comes home to Plum Creek, Tex., in search of his father.
But it is really about a kind of rainbow coalition of misfits who somehow bump into one another when they stop for a rest. To its credit, the show smuggles in the cast Trojan-style -- not in a horse but on one. In addition to a well-crafted round of good and bad white guys, there is a secretive Indian character named One Horse (Wes Studi) and a Mexican healer and cook called Crecencio (Luis Avalos), who plays Ned Blessing's sidekick. Because of these elements, Bill Wittliff, who created the show (and also adapted Larry McMurtry's "Lonesome Dove" as a mini-series), says that "Ned Blessing" is really a "southwestern."
Does this frontier-mania mean that America has stopped treating its creation myths as regional literature? Is "The 3:10 to Yuma" leaving for good this time? Certainly, the West has fueled the country's most epic works of art, sculpture, film, photography, music and prose. But it has also fueled the land's wanderlust. We may be incapable of slowing down long enough to fully examine our childhood stories. When this current wave passes, at least the libraries and video stores will have more to choose from on the shelves where "the old days" live. (Although, certainly, "Rawhide" alone could keep any red-blooded gal going for years). "The American community," Stegner wrote, "is an overnight camp." And its P.O. Box is the West.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Detail from a photograph by David Levinthal -- A contemporary view. (David Levinthal)(pg. 1); Van Heflin and Glenn Ford in "3:10 to Yuma" (1957) -- The arts are reflecting a new surge of interest in the frontier. (Movie Still Archives)(pg. 20); "Flying Eyeball" (1972) by Von Dutch, on view in an exhibition at the Laguna Art Museum in California -- The show, says its curator, reflects on the automobile's connection to the West. (Laguna Art Museum); Jane Seymour in CBS's "Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman" -- This fall, viewers will hit the trail in several television series. (CBS)(pg. 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KGC (NYSE) (57%); K (TSX) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: AUTRY, GENE, WESTERN HERITAGE MUSEUM (LOS ANGELES); LAGUNA ART MUSEUM (CALIF) UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AUTRY, GENE, WESTERN HERITAGE MUSEUM (LOS ANGELES); LAGUNA ART MUSEUM (CALIF) US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; HISTORY; MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION; PHOTOGRAPHY; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) HISTORY (90%); FILM (89%); EXHIBITIONS (79%); MINES & MINING (76%); TRENDS (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (76%); CONVENIENCE STORES (75%); CENSUS (72%); GOLD MINING (71%); PHOTOGRAPHY (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); MUSIC (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (64%); POP & ROCK (64%); DESERTS (60%); LOTTERIES (55%); 

PERSON: STILLMAN, DEANNE; LEVINTHAL, DAVID ERIC CLAPTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



534 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 17; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: DINING OUT;
In Torrington, Spicy Subcontinental Fare

BYLINE: By PATRICIA BROOKS

 BODY:
INDIAN restaurants are so rare in Connecticut that discovering Indo-Bangla in Torrington comes as a treat for any fan of the hot, well-spiced food of the subcontinent.
That's the good news. The less happy report is that one wishes it were better. It's not just that the restaurant itself is so lackluster -- a large, characterless room in a freestanding building, with wood-veneer booths, low ceiling and tile flooring. None of that would matter if the food tasted fresher and had more zest and zip. It wasn't bad; in fact, a few dishes were actually delicious, but many others tasted as though the kitchen were just going through the motions. 
 Most Indian dishes are complex and require considerable preparation, thus a restaurant needs a steady day-in, day-out clientele for the food to be freshly prepared and at its best. Otherwise, if there isn't that steady traffic, the dishes are sometimes held over and often end up tasting tired. It is a cuisine that is perhaps best suited to a large population center with adventurous diners.
Indo-Bangla deserves passing marks for trying to introduce this fascinating and diverse cuisine to the Torrington area, and even higher marks for making prices so accessible. While portions are small, as is often the case in Indian restaurants, several extras are included in the price of each entree, adding considerably to the value. These include onion relish (a delicious, spicy mixture of coarsely chopped raw onions, green pepper, cumin and red hot pepper), dal (lentils in a soupy state), tamarind sauce (thinner and sweeter than usual), cobe vajee (steamed, deeply spiced, shredded cabbage) and basmati rice (a generous portion, with sultana raisins, almonds, bay leaf, cardomom pods and wisps of fried onion).
Many dishes at Indo-Bangla (named for both India and Bangladesh) will be familiar to aficionados of Indian food. Especially well-made and fresh-tasting was lamb sajahani, a Moghul specialty that immersed chunks of braised lamb in a well-seasoned, ground-almond cream sauce. Lamb saag, which blended lamb with spinach and spices, lacked sparkle.
Saag paneer, which joins creamy cooked spinach with little cubes of bland farmer-style cheese, can be a well-resonated dish, as the Indian cuisine often does wonders with spinach and other vegetables. In this instance, though, the spicing was muted and the net effect was on the blah side.
Shrimp vindaloo, a Goan specialty, was skimpy with the jumbo shrimp, all too generous with potato chunks, and profuse with the fiery hot, cayenne-fueled sauce. Vindaloo is usually the hottest item on an Indian menu. At Indo-Bangla, where punches were pulled on many other dishes, the vindaloo was full throttle, four alarm, requiring a few spoonfuls of the refreshingly cool yogurt dish called raita to quench the fire.
Chicken dhansak was a dish that needed an infusion of pep. A mixture of chicken pieces, spinach and lentils, it was listed as "a little hot" but was surprisingly subdued. Chicken Madras, another traditionally hot South Indian number, was indeed incendiary. A paltry serving of dry-baked chicken tikka had intense seasoning but tasted reheated.
One of the better dishes at Indo-Bangla was chhole poori, a well-spiced appetizer of chickpeas, tomatoes, onions, cumin and other seasonings, served with puffy, if greasy, poori bread. Naan, the popular, soft unleavened bread served with so many Indian dishes, wasn't real naan but warmed pita bread.
There is no liquor, beer or wine license at Indo-Bangla, but you are welcome to bring your own. You can pay as little as $10 a person at Indo-Bangla for an appetizer and entree. It's hard to dine out more economically than that.
A LA CARTE -- Rumba, the small, bouncy Cuban-Caribbean restaurant in Danbury, moved to larger quarters last month. Now at 106 Federal Road (next to Day's Inn Motel), Danbury, the new expanded place seats 250 (compared with its former seating for 54), with a dance floor, where live Latin music is featured Friday and Saturday evenings. The cheerful tropical decor and food are much the same as in the former cozy location. New telephone: 791-0003.
 
Indo-Bangla
Satisfactory
142 East Main Street (corner of Baeder Street), Torrington. 496-9916.
Atmosphere: A large, low-ceiling dining room with lace curtains, tile floor and wood-veneer booths in a freestanding building.
Service: Accommodating.
Recommended dishes: Chhole poori, lamb saag, chicken Madras, shrimp vindaloo, lamb sajahani.
Price range: Lunch entrees $4.99, dinner entrees $6.50 to $10.95.
Credit cards: All major cards.
Hours: 7 A.M. to 11 A.M. daily except Tuesday, 11:30 A.M. to 3 P.M. daily except Tuesday, 3:30 P.M. to 9:30 P.M. Sunday, Monday, Wednesday and Thursday, 3:30 P.M. to 11 P.M. Friday and Saturday. Closed Tuesday.
Reservations: Accepted.
Wheelchair accessibility: Ground-level access.
Ratings:
 
Poor
Satisfactory
Good
Very Good
Excellent
Extraordinary
 Ratings are based on the reviewer's reaction to food and price in relation to comparable establishments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); BANGLADESH (79%); INDIA (59%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); GOA, INDIA (59%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: INDO-BANGLA (TORRINGTON, CONN, RESTAURANT)

ORGANIZATION: INDO-BANGLA (TORRINGTON, CONN, RESTAURANT)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); BANGLADESH (79%); INDIA (59%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); GOA, INDIA (59%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS RESTAURANTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (86%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (85%); MENU PRICES (78%); FLOORING (56%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, PATRICIA

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



535 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1919 words

HEADLINE: United Fights for Its Health as Unions Fight for United

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
LEAN and fit, Stephen M. Wolf, the 52-year-old chairman of United Airlines, works out every chance he gets in the personal gym adjoining his office here. And he's attacking the problem of getting the carrier into fighting trim with an equal zeal.
United became the nation's largest airline in June, edging out American by the crucial measure of miles flown by passengers. But far from celebrating, Mr. Wolf is looking critically at what industry analysts agree is an unhealthy amount of fat. Indeed, United's parent, UAL Corporation, posted an operating loss of $538 million last year, far more than AMR, American's parent, which posted a $25 million operating loss. 
 Particularly worrisome, Southwest Airlines, the only major carrier to report a profit last year, is competing on an increasing portion of United's routes -- 16 percent, double the 8 percent overlap of only five years ago -- and Mr. Wolf realizes that United has to match Southwest's low-cost structure if it is to remain competitive.
The most dramatic result of Mr. Wolf's efforts is the possible buyout of the airline by its unions. Responding to his appeal for help last month, the pilots, machinists and flight attendants'unions politely indicated a willingness to make concessions in return for a controlling stake in UAL.
The development is remarkable for several reasons. While unions have traded concessions for equity at Trans World Airlines and Northwest Airlines, they did so only with their backs against a wall. United, by contrast, has a $1.9 billion cash cushion. Moreover, three previous attempts by United's unions to buy the carrier not only failed, but were marked by confrontation and invective.
Now union leaders -- who largely balked at Mr. Wolf's invitation earlier this year to discuss concessions -- have adopted his earnest, conciliatory stance of trying to find a way to assure the carrier's long-term viability and secure workers' jobs. "We seek to pursue a collaborative effort now with a still healthy company," the unions said.
Labor leaders have shared few thoughts lately about the move, but they clearly were swayed by unpalatable alternatives and an industry-wide contraction that has helped make United the latest example of bedrock American companies trying to orchestrate a shift to a lithe, more profitable structure. United also reflects how transportation companies are scrambling to cope in a deregulated market of lower-cost airlines pressuring the largest carriers.
Mr. Wolf is not relying on just one strategy to restore United to health. United is shedding money-losing routes, just recently cutting its daily departures from Orlando by more than half. United has also established a new subsidiary, the UAL Leasing Corporation, to lease the planes it is otherwise grounding. Air Wisconsin, a small fleet that feeds passengers to United hubs, has been sold. United has also replaced cleaning staff and skycaps with contract workers.
It is reviewing bids to buy its 17 flight kitchens, which employ 5,800 workers and has raised the possibility of selling its pilot training center in Denver. All these changes are on top of the $400 million United carved out of its 1993 operating budget.
The most controversial suggestion so far, however, is that United might spin off an airline with nonunion pilots to take over unprofitable short-haul routes.
United's top managers have deployed a vice president, Frederic F. "Jake" Brace, to study the issue full-time, and they continually comment on the importance of the so-called Jake Brace project as the big fix for their domestic operations.
"There is one issue standing between us and glory," said John C. Pope, United's president and chief operating officer. But the pilots reacted sharply in June when the possibility of a spun-off carrier came to light, reminding the airline that such a "breach of faith" prompted a strike in 1985, and that "we will again respond with every legal means at our disposal."
That made the unions' friendly response last month all the more surprising. Industry analysts credit, to some degree, Mr. Wolf's high-minded stump speeches about the need for change. Over the last several months he has campaigned to convince employees that the industry faces deep-rooted problems.
"The unions recognized many years ago the need for restructuring, but to his credit, Wolf has succeeded in persuading them that management's view of the airlines is sincere and accurate," said Joseph R. Blasi, professor of management and labor relations at Rutgers University, who has been retained by United's nonunion employees to advise them as the buyout talks progress.
It was Mr. Wolf who first floated the notion in Washington that a national commission should be appointed to study the industry's ailments. In speeches, interviews and internal employee newsletters, Mr. Wolf and his lieutenants tell and retell a lesson in Airline Economics 101 about secular changes under way in the business. In his monthly editorial in the July issue of United's in-flight magazine, Mr. Wolf addressed the importance of increasing productivity of American workers, a message no doubt written with United's unions in mind as they consider the airline's restructuring plan.
"It's not a case of anyone being bad or dumb," Mr. Wolf said during an interview here over a lunch of vegetables and rice. "We're saying we need to do it now from a position of strength, before we get to the edge of the precipice looking straight down."
The airline has become increasingly aware of the precipice in part because of Southwest Airlines. As Candace Browning, a Merrill Lynch analyst, noted in a recent report, Southwest's more productive workers and lower costs enable it to charge at least 25 percent less than United and still turn a profit. Given United's hubs at San Francisco and Los Angeles, the carrier's executives have concluded that they face many future battles with Southwest that they are almost certain to lose.
"It is like a cancer eating you up," said Rakesh Gangwal, United's senior vice president of planning. "If we cannot fix our domestic business, we will go the way of Pan Am and Eastern."
The unions apparently share that concern. Wage concessions are not easy for the rank and file, but fear of losing jobs is a powerful incentive for making them. Still, they come dear. United's labor leaders are seeking control of the carrier, and it is far from certain that the unions can forge a proposal that appeals to United's board and shareholders.
Although the unions say they want nothing less than a majority stake, nobody is ruling out the possibility that they might agree to swap concessions for a minority interest.
Nor is anyone certain that the labor coalition will not crumble. There are long-standing strains among pilots and machinists to overcome. But for now, the unions are presenting a unified front as they join United on the high road of cordial talks rather than cope with a probable loss of jobs. They have put together a number of proposals, but none has so far emerged as a favorite, according to people close to the talks.
They confirmed recent reports that one proposal calls for the unions to exchange 15 percent wage cuts, worth roughly $3.4 billion, to help gain control of the company. Current stockholders would retain 40 percent of the company. In exchange for the other 60 percent, they would be given $20 a share, to be financed by using $500 million from United's cash reserves, plus new equity whose value would be increased by the worker givebacks.
THERE is skepticism in the industry over whether lenders would support a union-led company. Wall Street remembers vividly the unions' failed attempt in 1989, a deal that prompted a 190-point plunge in the stock market when it crumbled on Friday, Oct. 13 of that year.
But Mr. Blasi said that the details would determine the level of enthusiasm for this latest effort. "If the unions can show they can make work rules flexible, and cut staff, wages and benefits, then all of that is music to investors' ears," he said.
In contrast to United, American has refrained from asking employees for concessions out of fear that it would foster resentment and hurt customer service. Instead, it is dropping unprofitable routes and focusing on subsidiary businesses like computer consulting. The No. 3 carrier, Delta Air Lines, has been laying off pilots to cut costs.
In this light, the decision by United and its labor leaders to at least talk about concessions while United is strong is all the more remarkable. Traditionally, the industry rule of thumb has been that American acts first and is followed six months later by United, then by Delta even later.
If anything happens to scuttle a deal at United, management will have to make deeper cuts, almost certainly sparking tussles with labor. Mr. Wolf has stood up to union leaders before during showdowns at United, and in earlier jobs running Republic Airlines and Tiger International, both of which were bought later by other carriers. And he would doubtless do so again to shrink United to a more profitable core.
"There was only one thing that troubled me when I joined United, and that was the relationship between labor and employer," he said. "Five and a half years later, it's the issue that still troubles me."
 
WILL BARGAINING END HIS JOB?"
IF United Airlines' unions and management are able to negotiate a deal that everyone from the board and shareholders to rank-and-file workers and lenders would accept, it would be a victory for the airline's chairman, Stephen M. Wolf -- even though it could put him and some of his top managers out of work.
Such prospects, though, may not be entirely unwelcome by Mr. Wolf. He and his lieutenants could profit handsomely from a buyout. His employment contract, like those of many United managers, includes provisions that if the airline were to change hands, his many stock options would be accelerated.
United's shares have jumped roughly 15 percent in recent weeks to around $145 a share since the unions said in July that they were interested in a buyout. If it works out, a buyout could well lift the stock further, perhaps making a fistful of out-of-the-money options that Mr. Wolf holds as performance incentives suddenly worth something.
He has 50,000 options exercisable at $170 on May 29, 1994; 50,000 options at $196 in 1995 and 50,000 options at $225 on May 29, 1996.
And while that potential profit may be a motivator, there may be other issues driving Mr. Wolf to seek a deal besides his stated goals of maximizing benefits for other shareholders and United employees.
Acquaintances say that he may be tiring of the nonstop pace of the airline business, and that he might happily bow out. After all, he can reflect on a career of accomplishments that few airline executives share. He runs the world's largest airline, earning $575,000 per year, and he has secured a tidy personal fortune even if the options are never exercised. And if he were able to restructure United with the unions' help, he might be viewed as a leader in labor-management relations -- something that might help if he harbors any political or diplomatic ambitions, as some acquaintances suggest.
He also mentioned during a recent interview that he misses a few of life's pleasures, including trout fishing, pursuing his interest in food, and the old Jaguars he has restored at a garage in New Hampshire but never has time to drive.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Wolf, chairman: troubled by employer/labor relations. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIRLINES INC UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FINANCES; EMPLOYEE OWNED COMPANIES; LABOR; LABOR UNIONS; FINANCES AIRLINES (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); 

PERSON: WOLF, STEPHEN M; BRYANT, ADAM STEPHEN M WOLF (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



536 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
With Business Weak, Stocks Are Strong

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
AFTER the Mississippi flooded and New York boiled in July, August has finally produced a summer rally. And not just on Wall Street. Europe also is clanging along. The economies may not be growing much, meaning that there is no great need to build plants or buy equipment. But cash has to go somewhere, and now it is going into stocks and bonds.
Every major U.S. stock index moved to a new high last week, with the Dow Jones industrial average topping 3,600. But it is hard to find much joy among investors. Perhaps that reflects the fact this rally has not been like the barnburners of old. "We have crawled higher," says Hugh Johnson, the strategist at First Albany. 
 The tradition of summer rallies is a great one. And if it has often been hyped by brokers trying to sell stocks, that does not obscure the fact that some of the great market turning points have occurred in hot weather. On July 8, 1932, the stock market hit its Depression low. Two months later, it was up 94 percent. The great 1980's bull market began on Friday, Aug. 13, 1982.
And six years ago this week, on Aug. 25, 1987, the Dow peaked at 2,722.42. It was the 55th, and last, time that the index hit a new high in 1987. The crash came in October.
Six years ago, the Dow was ridiculously overvalued. Now it is about one-third higher. The economy is larger, but by some standards, stocks are almost as overpriced. At the peak, the Standard & Poor's 500 index had a miserly dividend yield of just 2.6 percent. Last week the figure was 2.7 percent. Historically, markets with yields much below 3 percent are hazardous to wealth.
But a case can be made for stocks. "The valuation of the market is not strained," said Byron Wien, the Morgan Stanley strategist, pointing to indicators based on interest rates. Mr. Wien was one of the few on Wall Street to forecast a good summer rally, in part because he thought the yield on 30-year Treasuries would fall to 6 1/2 percent. At the time, that forecast seemed bold. Now Treasuries are below 6 1/4 percent. In 1987, he recalled, interest rates were moving up, a fact the stock market managed to ignore for only a limited period.
Last week's rally was ignited in part by lower interest rates, and in part by a recovery in this year's big losers, the consumer products and health stocks. "If the market were to have a strong run here, it would surprise most observers," Mr. Wien said. "But it is quite possible, especially if the laggards keep performing." He thinks a Dow peak of 3,800 to 4,000 is possible, but adds that he doubts more than that is likely without a correction.
Intuitively, stocks ought to do best when the business climate, and thus the profit outlook, are the brightest. But that is not always the case. Perhaps the stock markets here and in Europe are destined to do well until healthy economic growth returns, providing alternative uses for capital. Rising short-term interest rates would be a sign that is happening, but that sign is not here yet.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Rises 45.83 to 3,615.48," tracks Dow Jones Stock Average, Aug. 13-20, 1993; "Six Years Later Some Winners ...," shows change in stock price since Aug. 27, 1987 for Coca-Cola, Pepisco, Motorola, Procter & Gamble and Disney; "... And Some Disappointments," lists change in stock price since Aug. 27, 1987 for Digital Equipment, I.B.M., Westinghouse, Amerian Express and Ford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); DIVIDENDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



537 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1837 words

HEADLINE: Profile: Herbert M. Baum;
Quaker State's Quick-Change Artist

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

DATELINE: OIL CITY, Pa.

 BODY:
HERBERT M. BAUM, the new head of the Quaker State Corporation, and the first outsider to lead the oil company since it was founded in 1931, refused when the board asked him to add his picture to a row of portraits of past chairmen.
"This is stifling," he said, gesturing toward the display lining a hall on the top floor of the company's headquarters here. So he ordered that the pictures of the solemn-faced executives be moved into the boardroom and replaced with lively photos of the company's products, employees and customers. 
 The switch was an appropriate one for a marketing man like Mr. Baum, who made his name rejuvenating sales and developing new products at the Campbell Soup Company after a successful career in advertising.
Indeed, Mr. Baum's marketing savvy, and the energy and fresh approach he brings as an outsider, might be just what is needed, some analysts say, to help regain market share for Quaker State, the country's second-largest retailer of motor oil after Pennzoil, based in Houston.
There is worry within the company; his emphasis on marketing rather than research and product development could leave the company vulnerable to a competitor who might come up with an innovative product. But Mr. Baum is moving into the motor oil business with gusto.
"There are no givens on what has to happen at Quaker State," said the 56-year-old Mr. Baum, who took over as the chairman and chief executive in June and has already earned a reputation as a workaholic. "Everything is open to change."
And plenty will have to change, analysts say. The company lost $93 million last year, on sales of $724.4 million, in contrast to income of $22.7 million the year before.
Much of the loss came from writedowns from the sale of its coal operations, but operating profits slid 29.7 percent, to $29.8 million from $42.4 million in 1991.
Earnings have picked up this year, reaching $4.38 million, or 16 cents a share, in the second quarter, up 37 percent from $3.19 million, or 12 cents a share, a year earlier.
The stock, having hit a low of about $7 in 1990, closed Friday at $13.125 -- less than half the $30 a share it reached in 1987.
One problem is that Quaker State Q Lube -- the company's chain of quick-lube service stations -- which accounts for about 14 percent of its business, has been struggling for several years. More important, Quaker State's bread-and-butter product, motor oil, which accounts for 60 percent of sales, has been losing market share at an alarming rate -- down to 13 percent from 20 percent in 1984. (An insurance division makes up 18 percent of Quaker State's business and a unit that makes specialty lights for trucks contributes 8 percent.)
R. Bentley Offutt, an analyst who follows the company for Offutt Securities in Baltimore, said a major challenge for Mr. Baum would be to rebuild the sales and marketing staff which was trimmed during a cost-cutting drive in the mid-1980's.
"That's the heart of their problem," he said, adding that Mr. Baum was well suited for the job because of his background and that he was already seeking a new senior vice president of marketing to revamp the staff.
Indeed, marketing and advertising are the heart of Mr. Baum's plan to get the company back on track. In a radical departure from the approach of his predecessor, Jack W. Corn, Mr. Baum plans a cash rebate campaign -- the first in many years -- that would cut the price of a new line of motor oil by about 30 percent for a time to regain market share.
And local sales representatives are expected to be given more leeway to offer special pricing deals to large retailers for a variety of oil grades.
But eventually, Mr. Baum said, "people will pay a premium" for the strong brand name of Quaker State, once he gets the advertising and marketing effort going.
LIKE many oil companies, Quaker State sharply raised its motor oil price when the Gulf War sent the price of crude oil soaring. Unlike many others, though, it kept the price high. Steep discounting by Pennzoil and others eager to win sales at big off-price chains like Kmart, where motor oil is sometimes used as a loss leader, cost Quaker significant market share.
Quaker State has also been hurt, as have many other consumer products companies, by the abandonment of premium brand labels by price-conscious buyers. Still, Mr. Baum is determined to win back what was lost by building brand loyalty.
Last month the board halved the dividend to 10 cents a share from 20 cents, a move Mr. Baum said was necessary because the dividends had exceeded earnings. Although the stock gave up $1.25 on the dividend news, Mr. Offutt praised the move because it would free up money for the new ad campaign.
Under Mr. Baum, Quaker State will end its contract with Burt Reynolds, whose smart-aleck commercials added to brand recognition but did little to stem the sales slide. Until Grey Advertising comes up with a new campaign, Quaker State is developing an interim campaign that will focus on car owners who have used nothing but Quaker State to keep their "cream puff" cars running for hundreds of thousands of miles.
Mr. Baum can be expected to play a strong role in overseeing the new campaign. He came to management by way of advertising. After graduating from Drake University in Des Moines in 1958 with a degree in business administration, he did stints as an announcer at speedways in the Chicago area and as a publicist for movie stars in Chicago.
He then worked as an account executive for several ad agencies. In 1973, he was named a vice president of Needham, Harper & Steers in Chicago and put to work on the Campbell Soup account. Five years later, Campbell asked him to join the company as the associate director of new products in the canned foods division.
Campbell, which then controlled about 85 percent of the market for condensed soups in the United States, was largely an insular, complacent company that was being challenged by rivals like Progresso. Campbell watched its sales slide as consumers' eating habits shifted to emphasize less salt and more fresh food.
Mr. Baum's challenge was to add products and rejuvenate the core business without cutting into the dominant position of the traditional Campbell soups. A new line of lower-salt soups called Healthy Request and new products like Prego spaghetti sauce were introduced.
He rose quickly in the company. In seven years, he became the president of Campbell USA, the largest division of the company. When he left to join Quaker State, where he faces a similar challenge -- revitalizing a proud, old company, he was president of Campbell's operations in both North and South America.
At Campbell, his style was to listen, be informal and approachable and work seven days a week to bring in some fresh thinking.
"He was not a guy with a booming voice," a colleague at Campbell recalled. "He had a gentle way of dealing with people. He did not like to order someone to do things unless he had to."
Yet, the Campbell executive added, Mr. Baum was also very determined and focused. This at times put him in conflict with top executives, some of whom left the company because they felt he wanted to run things his own way.
At Quaker State, he is off at a blistering pace, getting to the office at 5 A. M. and working late into the night and on weekends -- an approach he says is made possible by his wife, Karen, who takes care of everything at home.
"He leaves everything to me," she said. She lost no time in moving the family from Voorhees Township, N.J., near Campbell's headquarters in Camden, to Oil City in western Pennsylvania, where on the first day of a house-hunting trip she bought a sprawling old home from a surgeon who had kept it meticulously.
Once an oil boomtown, Oil City's downtown, apart from Quaker State's five-story glass and concrete headquarters, is now dotted with empty office buildings and stores. But Mr. Baum sees better times ahead.
"We're going to find the rebirth of Quaker State," he said. "I'm a brand builder."
 
 
 
SPEED, SERVICE AND LOYALTY
QUICK-LUBE centers are a key to regaining a strong marketing position, Herbert M. Baum, Quaker State's chairman and chief executive contends, because customers also end up using the company's products.
Fast-lube stations offer oil changes and lubrication without the need for an appointment and generally charge about $25 for the service. For a time, the quick-lube market prospered, as the number of gas stations that traditionally did such work declined, and the remaining stations and car dealers were slow to respond to the demand for the fast and inexpensive service.
The centers captured about 10 percent of the oil-change market, with 40 percent remaining with the gas stations and dealers. Drivers who changed their own oil accounted for the other half of the market.
The recession put more of the market into the hands of the do-it-yourselfers, resulting in a shake-out in the business and stiffer competition.
Jiffy Lube, based in Houston, which pioneered the business in the early 1980's, grew too rapidly: It opened 1,000 centers but got into severe financial problems in the process. It was bought by Pennzoil in 1990 and since then has been run by a new management team that is spending heavily to upgrade its centers, train its staff and set up computer systems to track each car that is serviced. Quaker State cannot afford to lag.
Quaker State jumped into the quick-lube business in 1985, during the industry's go-go years, when it bought Arctic Circle Inc., the owner of Minit Lube, and expanded quickly from a base of 100 centers. There are now 433 of the stations around the country; most are company-owned, but some are franchised.
After earning $6 million in 1990, the Quaker State chain lost $1.1 million in 1991. Its small operating profit last year was more than offset by the high costs of an ambitious overhaul of the Minit Lube chain that began before Mr. Baum arrived. Its name was changed to Quaker State Q Lube.
One cost was for computer systems to tie the centers together. Since customers get oil changes only about every six months, it is hard to build loyalty. But in marketing surveys, Quaker State learned that customers would prefer to go to centers that kept computerized service records for their cars.
The company also found that many customers were more concerned about the quality of the service than getting the lowest price. So, Quaker State has put more emphasis on training its staff to answer questions and solve problems. The face lifts for the centers in Reno and Phoenix last year, which include new signs, paint, customer waiting rooms and landscaping, have also been expensive.
"The reaction has been extraordinary," said Conrad A. Conrad, president and chief operating officer of Quaker State. "Profits have increased significantly."
The company plans renovations throughout the chain and is now working on those in Salt Lake City and Atlanta.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Herbert M. Baum, the new chief executive at Quaker State. (Terry Clark for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (70%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: QUAKER STATE CORP SHELL OIL CO (91%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: QUAKER STATE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); MARKET SHARE (89%); OIL & LUBE SHOPS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); PETROLEUM LUBRICANTS MFG (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (70%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (70%); RETAILERS (69%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: BAUM, HERBERT M; BAUM, HERBERT M (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); SALPUKAS, AGIS HERBERT M BAUM (99%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



538 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1759 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/August 15-20

BYLINE: By Francis Flaherty

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
As Baby Bells Object, A.T.&T. Bids $12.6 Billion for McCaw 

In the nation's fifth-largest takeover ever, A.T.&T. is to pay $12.6 billion in stock for McCaw Cellular Communications, the biggest American cellular phone company. The deal, which must pass Federal antitrust muster, would profoundly alter telecommunications, in part by enabling long-distance cellular companies to bypass local phone lines. The Baby Bells -- which billed A.T.&T. $14 billion in access charges last year -- are crying foul over this aspect of the buy. They've been banned from long-distance competition ever since A.T.&T. was broken up years ago, they argue, but long-distance companies like A.T.&T. are allowed to vie for local business. Let us enter the long-distance market, the locals say. Still others are worried that the new A.T.&T. -- which bought NCR for $7.9 billion in 1991 -- is starting to look like the old, monolithic A.T.&T. But one group's decidedly not upset: the four McCaw brothers, who stand to get nearly $2.9 billion from the deal.
 
 
 
 
 
Hughes Wins Satellite Suit
After 20 years in court, Hughes Aircraft has secured a judgment that NASA has infringed its patents for geosynchronous satellites. These satellites, which appear to hover in one spot over the rotating earth, have been widely used for 30 years as navigational aids and scientific data-gatherers. A major issue in the long dispute: Was the Hughes engineer who invented the geosynchronous system in 1959 working on a Government contract at the time? If so, rights to the idea might have belonged to NASA. But Judge James Turner of the United States Court of Claims said no. Next, the court must calculate damages. NASA says $100 million; Hughes counters with $3 billion.
Turner Buys 'Turtles' and More
Seeking a sure supply of shows for its entertainment channels, Turner Broadcasting has bought two film production companies for more than $667 million. One acquisition, New Line Cinema, has produced the "Nightmare on Elm Street" and "Teen-Age Mutant Ninja Turtles" movie series; the other, Castle Rock Entertainment, has made "A Few Good Men" and "In the Line of Fire." The deal -- which will also buy for Turner the worldwide distribution capabilities of New Line -- continues the growing vertical integration of the entertainment field.
First Loss Leads Dell to Refocus
Chastened by its first quarterly loss since going public in 1988, Dell Computer has shifted its focus from sales and growth to profits and cost-cutting. The company incurred a $75.7 million second-quarter loss despite registering a jump in sales to $700 million, from $457 million, over the same quarter last year. A $71 million one-time charge -- for canceling a line of notebook computers, among other things -- accounted for the bulk of the period's loss. But even without the charge, Dell lost $4.7 million -- a surprise for a company whose sales rose 53 percent in a year. One reason for the anomaly is increased price competition from I.B.M., Compaq and others. Dell can't stop the competition, but it does plan cost cuts and worker incentives that maximize profit rather than sales.
Continental Cuts Fleet, Flights
Recently emerged from bankruptcy, Continental Airlines announced plans last week to shed 2,500 jobs, ground 30 planes and stop service to nine cities. Four of the nine dropped destinations are in Australia and New Zealand, thus stopping all Continental service there. The personnel cuts -- 6 percent of the airline's 42,000 workers -- will be made by year's end. Continental has trimmed down before, and other airlines, such as American and Delta, have taken similar actions. Analysts applaud these moves as correctives to industry overcapacity.
Donna Karan to Go Public
Donna Karan wants to become the first American couturier to take her company public, and she is hardly a long shot. Women have eagerly flocked to her easy-to-wear styles, helping her rack up an awe-inspiring average annual compounded growth rate of more than 50 percent since 1986. But as analysts dissected her planned initial public offering last week, its success seemed more iffy than her track record suggests. First, she's on the frontier of fashion. While Wall Street is familiar with apparel stocks, Ms. Karan's would be the first high-end fashion house to go public. Second, the fickleness of fashions makes all such stocks volatile. Finally, the offering prospectus reveals that Takihyo Inc., Ms. Karan's founding partner, will take big payouts from the stock sale and assume a much smaller role in the business. In fact, a basic disagreement between the partners may have spurred the offering. Reportedly, Ms. Karan wanted to market a perfume internally, while the partners favored using a cosmetics concern.
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
Nafta: Some Done, More to Do
 
The United States, Canada and Mexico finally completed the labor and environmental side deals to the North American Free Trade Agreement, but the treaty's still far from a reality. The side pacts -- urged by groups worried that Nafta signatories will ignore their own domestic labor and environmental laws -- authorize fines up to $20 million on offending countries, plus trade sanctions if necessary. But many were unimpressed. "It's a sellout," said a union president. "A fig leaf," said another. "Window dressing," said an environmentalist. The Administration defended the pact, though, and designated William Daley, a lawyer and brother of Chicago's Mayor, to push for its passage in Congress this fall. Also unresolved: A court ruling that an environmental impact statement must be prepared for Nafta. That case is on appeal.
 
China Stops 'Stir Fry' Land Deals
 
Seeking to cool its overheating economy, the Chinese Government is clamping down on real-estate developers who make huge profits from chao di, or "stir-frying property." Promising it will "sternly punish" those who continue in the frenzied speculation of buying and reselling land, the Government has imposed sharp limits on land leasing and on the building of luxury villas, office buildings and country clubs. The rules are part of a broad program to slow the economy in order to avoid inflation -- a fear that recession-racked Europe and a weakly recovering United States might look on with envy.
 
Bass-Led Specialty Food Buyout
 
It was overshadowed last week by the A.T.&T.-McCaw megadeal, but it was a billion-dollar event nonetheless. In a $1.1 billion leveraged buyout, a group of investors led by Texan Robert M. Bass purchased eight American specialty food companies from Beledia N.V., a Dutch food conglomerate. With $2.1 billion in combined revenues, the eight acquisitions -- all leaders in their fast-growing markets -- make such well-known products as Bagel Crisps and Country Hearth bread. The deal creates one of the largest specialty food companies in the country.
 
 
 
THE ECONOMY

 
N.J. Sting on Insurance Fraud
 
"All Aboard!" The standard train-and-bus directive got an insidious second meaning last week, as New Jersey investigators announced the results of a three-year insurance fraud sting. Aimed at "ghost riders" -- people who enter buses or trains after an accident and fraudulently claim injury -- the probe consisted of fake, videotaped bus crashes and netted not only bogus passengers but also doctors and lawyers who added their own fraud to the scam. New Jersey is apparently not alone. The National Insurance Crime Bureau, an industry group, estimates that 10 percent to 30 percent of the country's $1.3 billion medical bill for vehicle accidents consists of fraudulent or abusive claims. But, notwithstanding these numbers, "ghost riders" and other forms of fraud "have not been addressed in the health care debate," said Samuel Fortunato, New Jersey's insurance commissioner.

Business to Foot Health Bill
 
In his first health care speech since taking office, President Clinton told the nation's governors that business will foot the insurance bill under his reforms -- but not all right away. Employers will make payments ranging from 3.5 percent of payroll for small businesses to 7 percent of payroll for large ones, Mr. Clinton said, but these levies will be phased in over five to seven years. During that time, savings from the cost-control measures of health reform will accumulate; that money will then help subsidize the insurance costs of small and low-wage businesses when the payroll plan takes full effect. The President also confirmed that health reform will extend coverage to America's 37 million uninsured, and will assemble large purchasing cooperatives for whose business insurers will compete. The complete plan will be revealed next month.
 
Six Companies Vow to Recycle
 
If you make it, we'll buy it. Recycled paper, that is. Such was the message six large companies sent the nation's paper makers last week, vowing to use more recycled paper by decade's end. Assembled by the Environmental Defense Fund, the group consists of Duke University, Johnson & Johnson, McDonald's, Nationsbank, Prudential Insurance and Time Warner. The vast paper needs of the six -- Prudential alone buys $300 million of paper a year -- will encourage the paper industry to make more recycled paper, the Environmental Defense Fund hopes. Similarly, President Clinton is soon expected to require Federal agencies to include more recycled product in the 300,000 tons of paper they use yearly. These giant private and public consumers can surely help the cause, but there's still a long way to go: Only 6 percent of writing and printing paper is now recycled.

Surprise! A Giant Trade Deficit
 
Lots coming in, but not much going out: What's good for a bank account was unwelcome news for the nation's trade balance in June, which registered a $12.06 billion deficit. "Holy moly!" said one of the many trade experts flabbergasted by the figure, the largest monthly deficit in five years. Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown offered one gloss on the gloomy news, saying economic stagnation abroad has lessened foreign demand for American goods. This would explain the 3.3 percent drop in exports from May, to $37.65 billion. But what about the 5.1 percent jump in imports, to $49.71 billion, from May to June? A strong recovery that sharply increased American demand for imports would be a good explanation -- but in fact, the domestic recovery has been weak. Trade experts continue to ponder the mystery.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Turner's turtle now; A Karan model; Stir fry: only in the kitchen; Recycled paper?
 
Graphs shows second-quarter results for Dell computer, 1992 and 1993 (Company reports); lists largest U.S. mergers and acqusitions since 1981 (Source: Bloomberg Business News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: DIRECTV (55%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (87%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (76%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (66%); PATENTS (65%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (65%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (65%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



539 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
Man, Office and Mechanical Bride

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble

 BODY:
SOMETIMES a cigar is just a cigar, said Sigmund Freud, but usually it's not. Everyday objects have meaning as well as utility, a point made wittily by the exhibit that opened last week at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York. "Mechanical Brides: Women and Machines From Home to Office," as the exhibit is called, juxtaposes objects used in what is typically regarded as "women's work" -- the washing machine, telephone and typewriter -- with images used over the years to sell the objects. It is a painless, fascinating nutshell history of America's romance with consumption, socio-economic changes associated with that romance in the last century and the different experiences of men and women.
In the late 19th century, technological innovations transformed the middle-class household. Women who had labored at -- or supervised -- the production of food, clothing and furniture or housewares became consumers of mass-produced goods. The male-dominated world of commerce learned to sell its products to women, or rather, to the prevailing cultural stereotypes of women, appealing to emotions as well as utility. "Everything your heart desires," promised a Eureka swivel-top vacuum cleaner ad reprinted in a book called "Mechanical Brides" published by the Cooper-Hewitt and the Princeton Architectural Press. "So quiet!" "Adjustable suction!" "Gets it all!" "Follow your heart (and commonsense, too)." 
 Designers followed suit. From the 1920's into the 50's, appliances were designed in the streamlined form of modes of transportation. The classic, unfussy appliances of that era, their moving parts concealed by a smooth, easy-to-clean exterior, were meant to appeal to women, who were regarded as the "chief custodians of modern standards of hygiene," the book says.
The female-as-object strategy apparently worked so well that by mid-20th-century, J. Gordon Lippincott, a leading industrial designer, would inscribe the principle in his textbook "Design for Business": "If hard-headed business men could build up . . . the cosmetic industry in a few years, and do it on sheer emotional appeal to the American woman, there is no reason why such common everyday objects as alarm clocks, prefabricated homes, hair curlers, and helicopters should not be sold on the same basis."
Contemporaneous with the revolution in consumer behavior were changes in what would become the white-collar workplace. Until the last quarter of the 19th century, nearly all clerical workers were men. An industrious clerk could dream of advancement and upward mobility, perhaps into a high-prestige secretarial position. The almost exclusively male province changed, the exhibit notes, with "unprecedented speed." By 1890, women held 60 percent of all typing and stenography jobs in the United States; 10 years later, 77 percent. By 1920, women held 9 out of 10 typing and stenography jobs. By 1990, 99 percent of secretaries were women.
The change represented a convergence of supply and demand. The explosion of commerce at the end of the century created a market for educated workers; expanded educational opportunities for women created a qualified pool -- and a qualified pool that would work for low wages. The introduction of the -- genderless -- typewriter cleared the way for employers to hire women, who were assumed to be working for "pin money," without being criticized for displacing men.
By the turn of the century, the sexual division of labor outside the office had begun to replicate itself at work. Scientific manag- ers, with their hierarchies and division of tasks into infinite regressions of repetitive motions, imposed their will on offices, which came to resemble factories. Women landed at the bottom of the hierarchy and with them went the prestige and promise of clerical work.
But they would remain the consumers of equipment, a fact reflected in ads for typewriters and telephones. The title "Mechanical Brides" is an homage to Marshall McLuhan, who included an essay on technology and the female body in his 1951 book "The Mechanical Bride: Folklore of Industrial Man." Women's bodies, McLuhan observed, were viewed as sets of constituent, detachable parts that could be plucked out of one context and set in another. Legs were used to sell stockings, hands to sell coffeemakers; rarely was the entire woman in evidence.
The detachable parts images were especially prevalent in ads for office furniture and equipment. In one ad, "The shortest distance between the thought and the perfectly typewritten letter is the new easy-writing Royal typewriter." The thought is represented by a purposeful-looking man, the perfectly typewritten letter by a Royal typewriter and two female hands. The disembodied parts of women link the man, the technology and the task.
One of the strengths of the exhibit, which the Cooper-Hewitt hopes to take on the road, is that the voices of people as well as their images are present. The room dedicated to telephones -- the exhibit is sponsored by the Nynex Corporation -- contains a bank of phones visitors may use to "call" retired operators, who reminisce on tape. In its early days, the telephone company simply absorbed what was regarded as women's special relationship with the telephone -- the pleasure they take from chatting during those leisure hours made possible by the Eureka vacuum cleaner -- and made it policy. The first operators were men, one of the operators says, but they didn't have the patience to deal with the public. Women were polite and sunny.
New technology has weakened the association of women with keyboards and telephones, though many high-tech companies seem unsure of what to make of the brave new division of labor. Apple, in one of the few Powerbook ads it directs at women, uses the not-very-now image of salon hair dryers. Apple's marketing division might want to take a little trip to the Cooper-Hewitt.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A postcard, circa 1910, flirts with the new office triumvirate: woman, man and (background) typewriter. (Cooper-Hewitt); typewriters and telephones.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM (NYC) PRINCETON ARCHITECTURAL PRESS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WOMEN; OFFICE EQUIPMENT; HOUSEWORK; SHOWS (EXHIBITS); HOUSEWIVES; ADVERTISING EXHIBITIONS (91%); WOMEN (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); MEN (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); PUBLISHING (70%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (68%); TOILETRIES MFG (68%); COSMETICS (67%); HELICOPTERS (50%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



540 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
60 or Older? Aim to Preserve Wealth

SERIES: Third of three articles on investing by generation.

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
AFTER investing for growth in their 20's and 30's, then building wealth in their middle years, 60's-plus investors -- on the verge of retiring or already there -- should structure their fund holdings to provide cash flow and preserve wealth.
"People need to understand that at 70 they still have a substantial life expectancy," said Harold R. Evensky, a financial planner in Coral Gables, Fla. So they need income to cover expenses and protection from inflation. Equity could provide that protection, but stocks are more volatile than bonds. Thus retirees must balance three conflicting goals: income, growth and low volatility. 
 Most important is to recognize that what happened in the 1980's -- when investors earned double-digit returns on such super-safe investments as certificates of deposit and money market funds -- was a historical anomaly. There's no such thing as a "safe" 8 percent return anymore, planners say. Still, the most common mistake many retirees make today is to invest too conservatively. Investing in C.D.'s and bonds "won't protect against purchasing-power erosion," said Carol C. Pankros, a planner in Palatine, Ill.
That's why most advisers recommend gradually shifting into bonds as you grow older. One rule of thumb: subtract your age from 100 to derive your percentage in equities. For example, a 70-year-old would keep 30 percent of his or her portfolio in stocks. But retirees with more than $1 million in assets might consider leaving up to one-half in equities, Ms. Pankros advised.
To reduce stock fund volatility, Mr. Evensky would eliminate aggressive growth, growth and international funds (which invest only outside the United States), replacing them with balanced and equity-income funds. He likes T. Rowe Price Equity-Income and SoGen International, a global balanced fund. (Global funds include domestic stocks.)
Similarly, Katharine A. McGee, a planner in St. Louis, said she recommends stock funds with "downside protection and dividend income." She likes high-dividend-paying funds, like Wellesley Income and USAA Mutual Income, especially for pension plan rollovers because, "If the stock market moves sideways, as it did in the 70's, the dividend yield is an assured return." Ms. McGee's two other favorites: Fidelity Utilities Income and Dodge & Cox Balanced.
On the bond side, consider after-tax returns, said Ross Levin, a planner in Minneapolis. "A lot of people think they should invest only in munis, but that's not always the best answer," he said. Some retirees can control their retirement plan withdrawals and remain in low tax brackets, but that would reduce the "taxable equivalent yield" on their municipal bond funds.
To calculate the "taxable equivalent yield" of a muni bond fund, divide the tax-free yield by 100 minus your tax rate. For example, if a muni fund yields 4 percent and you are in the 28 percent tax bracket, the taxable equivalent yield is 5.6 percent (4 divided by .72).
People in low tax brackets might consider increasing yields with intermediate-term bond funds. Mr. Evensky recommends two: PIMCO Total Return and Managers Intermediate Mortgage.
Muni bond investors should be aware that loading up too heavily on tax-free investments can backfire if they collect Social Security. One-half of Social Security payments becomes taxable when adjusted gross income plus one-half of the payments plus tax-exempt income exceeds $32,000 for couples ($25,000 for single taxpayers). Starting in 1994, up to 85 percent of payments will be taxed for couples earning more than $44,000 ($34,000 for singles).
When figuring your cash needs, focus on total return, which takes into account income plus capital appreciation. So when it's time to rebalance your portfolio, "Don't automatically move out of growth funds into high-dividend-paying stocks or income funds," Ms. McGee said. Instead, to avoid paying the capital gains tax due when shares are sold, liquidate part of your portfolio each year to generate income.
For cash, withdraw money from taxable investments first and allow tax-deferred accounts to continue to grow, keeping in mind that minimum distributions from retirement plans must begin by April 1 of the year after you turn 70 1/2. (Wealthy investors can reduce the required minimum distribution by adding a young beneficiary to their account.)
Best bet for cash: Use the systematic withdrawal plans that many mutual fund companies offer, Ms. Pankros said. The fund will automatically liquidate shares and send you checks at regular intervals. "Pick two of your 10 funds, knowing that they will be depleted in two or three years, then switch" to another fund, she said.
As for estate planning, couples should "equalize estates to take full advantage of the estate tax exclusion," which exempts up to $600,000 of assets on each estate, said Eileen Sharkey, a financial planner in Denver. If one spouse holds title to the house, for example, shift the title to mutual fund retirement plan investments to the other spouse.

GRAPHIC: Table lists stock funds recommended by Katharine A. McGee as offering "downside protection and dividend incone." (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); MINNESOTA, USA (73%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: T ROWE PRICE INTERNATIONAL INC (53%); T ROWE PRICE STABLE ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); MINNESOTA, USA (73%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (76%); DIVIDENDS (75%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (73%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



541 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 16; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT CARS;
Mitsubishi's New Galant Makes Its Bow

BYLINE: By Marshall Schuon

 BODY:
"Turbochargers, intercoolers, air dams, 0-60 times . . . these are not the priorities for today's typical mid-size car buyers."
 Mitsubishi company literature
WELL, maybe, but it depends on whom you talk to. Certainly, it is true for most shoppers in the burgeoning middle segment of the market, and those are the people whom Mitsubishi is targeting with its all-new 1994 Galant. 
 They are, according to the company, a diverse group that ranges from young professionals and families to more mature couples. That makes them harder to please than buyers in a smaller niche, and the Galant faces tough competition from Toyota's Camry, Honda's Accord and Ford's Taurus, among others.
But the third-generation of Mitsubishi's bread-and-butter sedan offers a raft of features that ought to help it do well.
For a start, the front-wheel-drive Galant is considerably bigger than its predecessor in all of its dimensions, making it a true mid-sized car. In addition, it is now among the most aerodynamic automobiles in the world, and the style is pleasing if somewhat bland.
The four-door body is far stiffer than in the past, but front and rear "crumple zones" are designed to absorb the force of an accident, while tubular door beams protect against side impacts. Dual air bags are standard, and antilock brakes are optional.
Mitsubishi views the Galant as its key model for the '90's, and it is being built at the company's Diamond Star assembly plant in Normal, Ill., which also turns out the Eclipse sport coupe. That means that domestic production will account for nearly 60 percent of the company's American volume, and the Galant will be exported around the world.
The car comes in four flavors, starting with an S model and escalating through ES, LS and GS. Prices range from $13,600 for the S to $21,277 for the GS, a new designation for a sporty version that has more power, a fancier interior and a rear spoiler.
The test car was a $16,775 ES, the middle of the line with a standard automatic transmission. Its only options -- $924 antilock brakes and $73 floormats -- brought the total price to $17,772.
The rounded body was dressed in silver-gray metallic paint, with contours reminiscent of the Diamante, Mitsubishi's luxury flagship. Headlights are integrated into the grille, and the lines of the low nose flow up to the cabin and around curved glass to blend with the tapered corners at the rear.
The fluid shape gives the Galant a .29 coefficient of drag, down from .35 for the '93 model, and the aerodynamics are helped by a smooth underbody and a front skirt that directs air away from the suspension and lower part of the engine.
Bumpers are body-colored and rated to withstand a 5-mile-an-hour impact without damage. At the rear, liftover is at bumper height, making it easy to load the reasonably large trunk, and the rear seatback folds down with the push of a single button, extending the 12.5-cubic-foot cargo area for long objects.
Inside, the ES was not exactly luxurious, but it was well thought out and had such niceties as standard power windows and doorlocks. The switches for both were conveniently situated in the armrests, and the driver's window had a one-touch down function.
The ES also lacked the sunroof that is standard in the LS and GS models -- a feature that probably ought to be an option. Power seat adjustments are absent from all Galants, although the manual levers tailor a position five or six ways, depending on the model.
In fact, the seats are quite comfortable, with long lower cushions on the front buckets. There is good room in back as well, and the test car's gray vinyl and cloth interior was spruced up with seat inserts that put a dither of red speckles among the gray.
The Galant's four-spoked wheel houses an air bag, and the bag for the front passenger resides over a very large glovebox. Storage elsewhere is good, too, and a padded lid over a console bin serves as a center armrest. A retractable dual cupholder hides at the forward end of the console, just above an ashtray that is large and usable.
Instrumentation is likewise large and easily readable. The two main gauges, a 140-m.p.h. speedometer and an 8,000-r.p.m. tachometer, are flanked by smaller dials for temperature and fuel.
Of those, the gas gauge was the most interesting, with the needle drifting down ever so slowly in a week's worth of driving, and a check of consumption and the size of the tank showed why. Economy is rated at 22 miles per gallon, city, and 28, highway, and the tank -- tucked safely ahead of the rear axle -- holds 16.9 gallons, which gives the car a range of more than 400 miles between fill-ups.
All of the '94 Galants are powered by a new 2.8-liter four with 16 valves, mounted sideways and driving the front wheels. Horsepower for all but the GS model is rated at 141, up 20 from the '93 car. The GS produces 160 horses, and that alone might make the sportier level of trim worth considering.
In fact, if there is one problem with the new Galant, it is that acceleration is somewhat less than dashing, particularly when the new and environmentally friendly air-conditioner puts a drain on the engine. But then, as the literature said, hot-rodding is not what this car is about.
Its strong suits are space, comfort and safety, and those things are liable to garner more than a polite tip of the hat from today's savvy shoppers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 1994 Galant is among the most aerodynamic cars in thje world. The roomy interior is well conceived. (Mitsubishi Motor Sales of America)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI CORP MITSUBISHI CO LTD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MITSUBISHI CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); SEDANS (78%); SPORTS CARS (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (64%); 

PERSON: SCHUON, MARSHALL

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



542 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Shadow;
Fundamentalism Alters the Mideast's Power Relationships

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE bomb explosion that killed five people and wounded Egypt's Interior Minister in downtown Cairo last week added a sense of urgency to Washington's concern over the challenge of Islamic fundamentalism to the West and its allies in the Muslim world.
A group known as al-Jihad claimed responsibility for the attack on the minister, Hassan al-Alfi, but so far Egyptian police have made no arrests. From his hospital bed, Mr. Alfi condemned the attackers and questioned how true Muslims could plot murder against their brethren. His harsh tone mirrored the stern measures Egypt has taken against radical Islamists. Since December, Egyptian military courts have sentenced to death 25 Muslim fundamentalists who have been engaged in violent anti-Government activity, including four condemned yesterday for murder and plotting to overthrow the Government. 
 Some American officials are worried about Islamic fundamentalism the way they once worried about communism, and regard it as being in some ways more vexing. Unlike the old Soviet bloc, radical Islamic clerics using the teachings of Mohammed and the tactics of urban guerrilla warfare cannot be confronted by a Strategic Defense Initiative or an arms buildup. And, as in the case of the limited American action against Sudan last week, tough diplomatic or military measures are often ruled out because of other concerns.
The West, Hassan al-Turabi, leader of Sudan's National Islamic Front, once boasted, "is even more apprehensive about Islam than it was about communism, because while it knows how to deal with material challenges, it has no idea how to go about facing a spiritual challenge."
The diplomatic complexities were evident in the Clinton Administration's response to what it sees as the threat posed by Sudan. The State Department, accusing the Sudanese of supporting groups that seek to undermine friendly Arab countries, last week put Sudan on the list of countries that sponsor international terrorism. While the decision renders Sudan ineligible for some American aid, the Administration stopped short of breaking diplomatic relations. State Department officials said they were concerned that Sudan might use such a decision as a pretext for blocking distribution of food and medicine in the famine-stricken south.
"As far as our relationship with Sudan, that's pretty low down on our list of policy interests," a State Department official said of concern over Sudan's support of terrorist groups. "The humanitarian crisis in the south ranks well above anything else." Maybe so, but this doesn't mean the Administration is sanguine about Sudan's ties to Iran or its strategic location for exporting revolution to other Arab countries.
Elsewhere, the Administration has supported Israel's effort to inch closer to the Palestine Liberation Organization, which increasingly is viewed as more acceptable than fundamentalist Palestinian groups like Hamas. And although the United States has a longstanding policy that seeks to isolate Libya, it has raised no objections to the warming of relations between Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and the Libyan leader Muammar el-Qaddafi.
Mr. Mubarak visited Libya last week in a vain attempt to broker a deal by which Mr. Qaddafi would surrender two suspects in the bombing of Pan American Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988, which killed 270 people. The United Nations Security Council has given Libya until Oct. 1 to hand over the men or face international economic sanctions. Diplomats say Mr. Mubarak is worried that such sanctions could mean the return of thousands of Egyptian expatriate workers in Libya to Egypt, where they would add to his country's unemployment.
 
Prime Target
 Indeed, the United States is above all concerned about the stability of Egypt, its best friend in the Arab world and the country many see as the prime target of the fundamentalists. "The prize, of course, is Egypt because of its tremendous population," said Patrick Clawson, an expert on Iran at the National Defense University and a former Sudanese desk officer at the International Monetary Fund. "It is the cultural and political center for the Arab world. If you have an Islamic government in Egypt you will have influence throughout the Arab world."
Still, if the growth of radical Muslim fundamentalism has its own domino theory, then Sudan may be considered the first domino. Ever since Iranian Muslim clerics overthrew the Shah in 1979, Iran has sought to export what it terms the Islamic Revolution. The emerging ties between Iran and Sudan indicate that the effort is succeeding in a strategically placed nation, American officials say.
"Take out a map and look at it," said a senior Clinton Administration official. "From the Iranian point of view, Sudan is strategically located: south to Africa, north and west to Egypt and North Africa. It gives the Iranians a strategic toehold, which can help promote its revolutionary cause in Algeria, Egypt, Tunisia, Sudan itself and south."
Though the listing as a terrorist state came at a time when some press reports linked Sudan with a plot to bomb the United Nations building and other targets in New York, State Department officials say their action was based on evidence that the Sudanese Government allows groups like Abu Nidal, Hezbollah and Palestine Islamic Jihad to operate out of Sudan and menace nearby countries. Administration officials would not say whether the al-Jihad, the group suspected in the Cairo bombing, has direct ties to the Khartoum government.
 
Militant History
 While denying support of terrorist groups, Sudanese leaders do not shy away from the claim that they are behind fundamentalists operating in other countries.
Sudan itself has a history of militant Islamic fundamentalism. In the 1880's Mohammed Ahmed ibn al-Sayyid, a spiritualist, proclaimed himself the "Mahdi" or messiah, and led a revolt against the country's Turkish, Egyptian and British rulers. In 1885 the Mahdists conquered Khartoum and killed Gen. Charles George Gordon, the British governor.
After a period of relative tolerance the country imposed strict adherence to Muslim law in the 1980's. But it became bogged down in a debilitating civil war against the largely Christian southern part of the country and was not considered a major player in the broader Islamic movement. Then in December 1991 Iran's President, Ali Akbar Hashemi-Rafsanjani, and other leaders of Iran's Islamic Revolution visited Khartoum and agreed to supply Sudan with free oil, sell it arms, send Revolutionary Guards to help the Sudanese Government in its battle with southern rebels and provide training in Sudan to Sudanese and Arab fundamentalists.
Some analysts say the role of Sudan in the fundamentalist movement is more symbolic than real; that the attractiveness of such groups in Egypt, Algeria and Tunisia owes more to poverty and social inequities than to Sudanese material support.
Moreover, there are centrifugal forces in the relationship between Iran and Sudan. One is the theocratic differences between Sunni and Shiite Muslims. And Iran, still reeling economically from its Iraqi war , has not fulfilled its pledges of economic assistance to Sudan.
Still, American policy makers say they cannot ignore the boasts coming out of Sudan that the sweep of fundamentalism is inevitable. "It's a matter of time, actually," Mr. Turabi, the Islamic Front leader, warned last year. "In 10 years you will have quite a number of countries."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Egyptian Government has rounded up dozens of leaders of Islamic militant groups in police sweeps over the last few months. (Donna DeCesare/Impact Visuals)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SUDAN (98%); EGYPT (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); 

COMPANY: STRATEGIC DEFENSE SYSTEMS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; EGYPT SUDAN (98%); EGYPT (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISLAM; TERRORISM; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS MUSLIMS & ISLAM (97%); RELIGION (97%); FUNDAMENTALISM (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (86%); BOMBINGS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); COUPS (78%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); HAMAS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); SENTENCING (69%); MILITARY COURTS (69%); ASSASSINATION (66%); FOOD CHARITIES (66%); FAMINE (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%); MURDER (58%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; ALFI, HASSAN AL- (MIN) TZIPORA LIVNI (80%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



543 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Conversations/David Card and Alan Krueger;
Two Economists Catch Clinton's Eye By Bucking the Common Wisdom

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A CONTROVERSIAL memorandum from Robert Reich, the Secretary of Labor, has been making the rounds here recently. It urges the President to propose not only a rapid 25-cent increase in the $4.25 Federal minimum wage but automatic annual increases in the minimum pay of everyone from McDonald's kitchen crews to Marriott chambermaids.
That may seem a bit strange from someone who says he is a New Democrat and considers himself a champion of disadvantaged workers. Economists, neoliberals and advocates for the poor have long believed that making it more expensive for business to hire the young, the least-skilled and the least-educated means fewer jobs for people who most need a break. 
 But the Labor Secretary thinks otherwise -- and one reason, it turns out, has a lot to do with research conducted by two young iconoclasts who have made names for themselves in academe and are now being talked about in Washington.
The two, David Card, 37 years old, and Alan Krueger, 32, are economists at Princeton University and pioneers in a new kind of survey research. Sometimes together, sometimes with collaborators like Larry Katz, Mr. Reich's right-hand economist -- have found that testing the conventional wisdom on trendy topics like the minimum wage, mandated benefits and immigration can yield a rich harvest of unexpected results. Quite often, they argue, the received wisdom is simply wrong.
"Other economists think we're out here doing cold fusion," said Professor Card, a Canadian who retains many of the hard-working, conservative tenets of the farm community he grew up in. "People assume we know no economics, but we just think the conventional model should be tested."
If the two were merely academic Luddites, smashing the elegant theoretical machinery of conventional economics without creating credible alternatives, nobody in the field would pay much attention to them. But that's not the case. Professor Card ranks third in the country in terms of articles in top economics journals, and edits the profession's most prestigious mathematical journal. Professor Krueger, no slouch either, recently was the object of a bidding war between Princeton and M.I.T.
The New Jersey Test
Their studies of the minimum wage have attracted the most attention. Classic economics assumes that a higher minimum puts more money in the pockets of some low-wage workers, but forces others out of work, dismissed by companies who cannot afford to pay them. Professors Card and Krueger decided to test that when New Jersey, in the middle of a recession, raised the minimum wage in the state to more than $5.05 -- 80 cents higher than neighboring Pennsylvania
They surveyed 400 fast food restaurants and found that those in New Jersey actually added 2.5 workers after the minimum wage went up. In Pennsylvania restaurants, meanwhile, payrolls shrank.
Why should bosses hire more workers if it's more expensive to do so? The two economists speculate that any fast-food restaurant typically operates with a couple of vacancies it can't fill because it doesn't pay enough.
"If you raise the minimum a little," said Professor Card, "teens who are sitting home go out looking for jobs."
Professor Krueger said the study shows that the labor market is a social institution as well. "There are lots of concerns about fairness," he said. "The conventional economic model ignores those concerns. It assumes people make decisions about where to work, how hard to work or how to treat customers on purely economic grounds."
They also caused a stir challenging the usual thinking about benefits that the law sometimes requires employers to offer their workers -- health insurance, workers compensation and the like.
Professor Krueger studied pay and benefits in the trucking industry and concluded that the workers -- not the employers -- are the ones who ultimately pay for the benefits. When benefit costs are pushed up by either market forces or government mandate, wages tend to go up more slowly. In states with high worker compensation coverage, pay tended to be commensurately lower.
And most economists will say that a surge in immigration depresses the wages and raises unemployment for the American working poor. But Professor Card's study of the impact of the Mariel boatlift in Florida found no effect on unskilled black workers from the influx of over 100,000 Cubans.
Their work does have critics, who say that it's trendy but that its conclusions, like the one about the minimum wage, can't be generalized. "It's really one observation," Professor Card admits. "It's always possible that there's some idiosyncratic thing that you've missed."
But even critics agree that their research is careful and applaud their desire to give economic theories more of the real-world testingthat the natural sciences have.
"Economists have this theoretical structure," Professor Card said. "The big selling point was an elegant framework that let you make logical predictions. But it's like a Greek tragedy -- our strength is also our weakness. A large number of people believe that the equations really work and that you don't have to investigate the facts.
'Let's Not Assume'
"The idea used to be that if the data didn't fit the theory, there must be something wrong with your data. Now there's a younger generation that says 'Let's not assume the answer.' "
The methods the two employ, which resemble the ones used by natural scientists, also attract attention. They use control groups, for example. Other economists virtually never do, but rely on statistical methods to isolate cause and effect.
"What attracted us to control groups is that we wanted to design our research scientifically," Professor Card said. "What would a skeptic consider convincing evidence?"
Although they analyze many large government surveys, they think they get better insights by collecting their own data -- as they did by telephoning or writing to 400 fast food joints. "There was a time when we thought econometric techniques would solve a lot of the data problems," Professor Krueger said. "Now I think the feeling is that there are a lot of problems for which it is easier to get better data."
They also prize -- to a far greater degree than some of their generation who have taken posts in the Clinton administration -- their scientific detachment. They insist, for example, that they are not prepared to tell the President, via Mr. Reich, that it's a good idea to put the Federal minimum wage on an escalator. Or that making employers buy insurance for all their workers is a bad idea.
Taking sides would conflict with their main mission -- testing whether the labor market really works the way the models say. "I really view what we do as scientific resarch rather than partisan input into some particular policy," Professor Card said. "Suppose we say we believe that the minimum wage should be higher. A lot of people would forever think our results were rigged."
But they aren't laughing at the idea that someone might be listening.
"Milton Friedman, who never was C.E.A. chairman or Fed chairman or anything like that," Professor Krueger said, "is the most influential economist alive today."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Princeton economists David Card, left, and Alan Krueger. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; RESEARCH; LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); FAST FOOD (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (72%); RANKINGS (68%); IMMIGRATION (51%); 

PERSON: CARD, DAVID; KRUEGER, ALAN (PROF); NASAR, SYLVIA MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



544 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1986 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
In Mexico, Nafta Isn't Just About Trade

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

 BODY:
IF any more evidence were needed of his huge stake in the North American Free Trade Agreement, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari offered it generously as negotiations finally came to an end.
After insisting that they would never accept trade sanctions to enforce their environmental and labor laws, Mexican officials agreed to American demands for such penalties in the supplemental accords announced Aug. 13. When that wasn't enough for some congressmen in Washington, Mr. Salinas promised to give millions of Mexican workers a pay raise by linking the minimum wage to productivity. 
 No one ever said the trade agreement -- which has been approved by the Canadian Parliament and is expected to be approved in Mexico soon -- would be a partnership of equals. But as the prospects have seemed to darken for its approval in the United States Congress this fall, some supporters of the pact have begun to argue its importance for Mexico in almost apocalyptic terms: The future of a stable, responsible, pro-American government here now hangs in the balance, they say.
As it became evident that the side accords had failed to win over skeptical House Democrats, Mexico's trade envoy in Washington suggested bluntly that the United States might as well choose between the agreement and political uncertainty in Mexico. The official, Hermann von Bertrab, said that after 64 years of uninterrupted rule by Mr. Salinas's Institutional Revolutionary Party, so much as a delay in the trade pact could spell defeat for his chosen successor (Mexican presidents cannot be re-elected).
Gov. Ann Richards of Texas was less coy. A rejection of the agreement would so enrage Mexicans, she said, that "some very serious disturbances" could be expected in Mexico and along the border.
Few people in Mexico dispute that a defeat on Capitol Hill this fall would bring Mr. Salinas's most important initiative crashing down at a singularly bad time. Yet the strength and scope of the expected anti-American backlash are hard to predict.
 
No Turning Back
 To some analysts here, the same economic and political forces that have moved Mexico toward the trade pact make serious upheaval almost unthinkable. Chances of an abrupt reversal of the economic course Mr. Salinas has followed since taking office in 1988 are considered equally remote. Even if his party loses the election, the analysts say, it seems unlikely that its leftist or rightist opposition could re-nationalize the state companies that have been privatized, resume the wild, deficit spending of the past, or turn sharply away from the United States.
"The end of his presidency would be a failure -- that's the essential problem," said Federico Estevez, a political scientist at the Autonomous Technological Institute of Mexico. "But I'm not sure that you can push back the reforms regardless of who comes to power next year." Mr. Estevez, a supporter of the agreement, added: "I would like to argue that we'll fall apart, but we won't fall apart."
The trade agreement began as a great gamble for Mr. Salinas in a country of legendary nationalism, and he has raised his bet considerably over the last year. Though his aides have sometimes sought to downplay the pact's importance, calling it just one of many steps in Mexico's transformation, Mr. Salinas has sold it assiduously to wary countrymen, promising that only more jobs and better pay can come of it. He has endured the humiliation of a series of policy reversals that have followed fast on criticism from the United States. And to a Mexican audience that understands little about separation of powers, rogue legislators or other ways of Washington, he has explained little, insisting that the agreement's passage is inevitable.
The starkest risk, though, remains economic. Last year, in trying to overhaul its oil-centered export base and opening its borders to a flood of foreign goods at the same time, Mexico ran up a deficit of $22.8 billion in its current account, the broadest measure of trade. Even with the Government budget running a surplus, the country counts heavily on foreign investment to cover the shortfall; it counts on the promise of a trade pact to draw and hold the investment.
The consequences of the agreement's failure would depend on how it failed. But whether the pact was flatly rejected by Congress or merely delayed beyond Jan. 1, when it is supposed to take effect, many economists say the disruption could spook foreign investors, especially those with relatively liquid assets like stocks and treasury bills. Because imports cannot be stanched as quickly as those funds can flow back abroad, the current-account deficit would probably rise. Most economists think the Mexican peso is overvalued already. A more serious trade imbalance would raise the pressure for a politically costly devaluation in order to make Mexican exports cheaper and foreign imports more expensive.
"I think the failure of Nafta would lead to a devaluation," said Sidney Weintraub, a political economist at the University of Texas. "But that wouldn't have an immediate effect in containing imports." He and others expect the Salinas Administration would therefore have to restrict imports as well in order to hold down the trade imbalance.
Given the likelihood that some Mexicans would demand retaliation if American legislators rejected the agreement, imports from the United States would be an obvious target. But several Mexican officials said a more serious reversal in the country's relationship with the partner that accounts for more than two-thirds of its trade would be disastrous. Without an agreement, Mexico would need foreign investors more than ever, they noted, and would probably have to open the economy further to attract them.
Aides to Mr. Salinas say that with Mexicans still divided over the trade accord, he is anxious that the Presidential election not turn into a referendum on the issue. Some analysts say the agreement's failure could also shape his crucial decision on which of the quietly rivalrous aides he will nominate to succeed him. And although no governing party candidate has ever lost, the moment has traditionally been one of gathering political tensions, one when presidencies that once seemed glorious begin to grow lame and collapse.
In theory, an opposition candidate like Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, the leftist who nearly beat Mr. Salinas in 1988, might seize such a moment. In practice, however, Mr. Cardenas's party has lost so much support that many political analysts doubt that even a failed trade agreement could lift it to the threshold of power again. Then there is another point militating against the sort of disaster that supporters of the trade agreement have begun to foresee: Privately, at least, aides to Mr. Cardenas say he has no interest in becoming the new champion of anti-Americanism, or even necessarily the new slayer of free trade.
 
 
 
BASICS OF THE ACCORD

 
What's in It
 The Nafta agreement, initialed by President Bush last year and blessed by the Clinton Administration last week, would bring Mexico into a free-trade area with the United States and Canada.
Mexican tariffs against American products currently average about 13 percent, while American tariffs against Mexican goods average 6 percent. But they are complemented by a host of non-tariff restrictions on everything from blue jeans to frozen orange juice concentrate.
Not all barriers would fall on Jan. 1, 1994. Some of the most sensitive -- for example, Mexico's restrictions on imported auto parts -- would be phased out over a decade. And "import surge" protocols would allow breathing spells for domestic industries devastated by foreign competition. But according to the Administration, half of all American exports would have open access to Mexico on Day One.
 
 
Winner and Losers
 The rapidly modernizing Mexican economy is a big importer of machines and commodities -- what Americans produce best. Since Mexico is already relatively open to these goods, the agreement itself would probably only have a modest impact on American sales. But locking into place President Carlos Salinas de Gortari's commitment to free markets, internal and external, would assure a long-term boost to American industries ranging from aircraft to grain to telephone equipment. And by keeping Mexico's growth on track, it would probably serve many other American industries that would be slaking Mexican consumers' thirst for the material life.
The pact is striking because it marries economies with vastly different levels of wages and productivity. Jobs and profits would undoubtedly be lost in labor-intensive, low-wage American industries including apparel, shoes and household glassware. But Ross Perot's "giant sucking sound" of jobs and investments flowing south is likely to be muffled because the Mexican economy is tiny compared to the U.S. one. Even in the most optimistic scenarios for Mexican growth, it will remain a minor player in most American markets for decades.
In any case, Mexican industry already has relatively easy access to American consumers, as do producers in low- wage countries from Thailand to Turkey. So, for that matter, do illegal Mexican immigrants, who by consensus constitute greater competition for low-wage American jobs than do legal Mexican imports.
Gary Hufbauer, an economist at the Institute for International Economics, estimates that the job growth in American high-wage industries will initially exceed job losses in low-wage industries because exports to Mexico are growing so rapidly. And if the past is a good measure, there will be little or no net impact on jobs as markets redeploy redundant workers to more competitive American industries.
 
 
Other Sticking Points
 Environmentalists worry that Mexican industrial pollution will poison the American side of the border, as well as fouling Mexico's air and water. American unions have jumped on the regulatory bandwagon, pointing to Mexico's malign neglect of working conditions.
It is not clear, though, why the accord would undermine the environment or labor standards; indeed, trade and investment liberalization would probably reduce cross-border pollution since it would end the artificial concentration of industry in free-trade border zones. Still, the Clinton Administration has worked to defuse the issues, writing side agreements providing for watchdog groups to monitor compliance with national laws.
Another challenge -- one with no political teeth -- comes from economists who are troubled by the rise of regional trade blocs. They fear that an open border with Mexico would divert more cost-reducing trade with Asia and Eastern Europe. And they wonder whether the North American economic alliance will spur Japan to form a competing bloc on the other side of the Pacific.
 
 
The Bumpy Road to Approval
 Canada's Parliament has already approved the treaty and Mexico's soon will. Current betting is that Nafta will have a relatively easy time in the United States Senate but will face sharp elbows in the House.
Ross Perot is rallying the opposition, tarring the treaty as a symbol of Washington's indifference to Joe Sixpack. Some environmental groups also remain opposed to it. And the House majority leader, Richard Gephardt, has expressed dissatisfaction with the final package. The contest may turn on the ability of the White House to limit defections among Democrats who have ties to organized labor or to business constituents threatened by Mexican competition.
But the White House's promised lobbying blitz could still be stalled before it has a chance to be tested. A Federal judge ruled last month that treaty approval required an environmental impact statement. If the Justice Department loses the appeal, movement on Nafta could be frozen for months or years. -- PETER PASSELL

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Yes to Free Trade Agreement," headlines in Mexican newspapers read earlier this month as NAFTA supplemental accords were announced. (Joe Cavaretta/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; LABOR; ENVIRONMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); POLITICS (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); NATIONALIZATION (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (57%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



545 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Troubled Mayor Seeks to Shift Campaign's Focus to Giuliani

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins had a bad week. He's also had a bad month. In fact, he's had a pretty bad year, and even his friends agree that he badly needs a couple of weeks of favorable breaks -- and soon -- if he is to avoid the worst break of all: defeat on Nov. 2.
By last week Mr. Dinkins's problems had accumulated to such a degree that a consensus, building among the city's politicians for months, seemed to have crystallized: that the race for mayor might well be Rudolph W. Giuliani's to lose.
 
Problems and a Paradox
 But paradoxically, the Mayor's supporters and opponents agreed, that very consensus could be an asset for Mr. Dinkins, by changing the dynamics of the campaign and intensifying the focus not only on his fitness to be mayor, but on Mr. Giuliani's. 
 "The behavior that's tolerated for just a candidate is much different than that for a presumptive mayor," said Hank Morris, a Democratic consultant not involved in the race. "It's a new obligation for Rudy. If you're just a candidate and you make a mistake, the public accepts that. But if you're the presumptive mayor, it's much different, especially in terms of tone -- a very, very different note to strike."
For the public to conclude that it is unhappy with an incumbent and yearns for a change is one kind of choice. But deciding just what to do about that -- pick the other guy, stay home or grit one's teeth and stick with the known commodity -- is ultimately another choice, and it remains Mr. Giuliani's challenge to persuade voters that he is worthy of it.
Whether the official city report that found last week that the Mayor's top aides had given preferential treatment to a company that won a $150 million parking-fine collection contract will be a turning point, or just another dent in an incumbent's armor, depends on many factors -- not the least of them Mr. Dinkins himself.
"It's not the end of a process," Mr. Giuliani's chief strategist, David Garth, said of the week's developments. He predicted that the Mayor would now greatly increase his attacks on Mr. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal candidate. "It's the beginning of a process."
Certainly, the auguries for the Mayor are not happy. Besides all the usual vicissitudes of four years in office, there were the severe budget problems that left him with an uninspiring election-year budget last spring. Then came the state report that harshly criticized his handling of the interracial violence in Crown Heights. Next was the disclosure of widespread mismanagement in the asbestos-removal program for the city's schools, which Mr. Dinkins must deal with even though the problem well predates his arrival at City Hall.
 
Echoes of 'Scandal'
 Finally came the report last week from the Mayor's own investigation commissioner that top City Hall aides had granted unusual access to a company, Lockheed Information Management Services, that promised to increase collection of the city's parking fines. The report found no suggestion of criminal wrongdoing or financial gain by any of the city officials it faulted -- just that they had been sloppy, strikingly insensitive to appearances of impropriety and seduced by the prospect of more cash for the city's coffers.
But because Lockheed is the successor to the company that lay at the heart of the bid-rigging corruption scandals that shook the Koch administration in the mid-1980's, and because some of the same officials still run it, the report prompted a flurry of newspaper headlines and dramatic television news accounts in which the word "scandal" echoed over and over again.
The whole affair also reinforced the widespread impression of the Mayor as not abreast of the details of his government. He was reduced to insisting, "It's not a corruption scandal," an assertion that no evidence so far contradicts, but that is hardly a happy claim.
"Clearly, the public got the impression that this is a corruption case, even if it's not," said a veteran consultant who spoke on condition of anonymity. "And perception, especially as it's repeated on TV, is everything."
Several analysts also suggested that the Lockheed affair played into Mr. Giuliani's hands because it raised questions about management and competence, but without the overlay of racial politics and tensions inherent in the Mayor's handling of Crown Heights, for example.
What is more, a number of City Council members, including Speaker Peter F. Vallone, who are nominally Dinkins supporters, said last week that despite forcing the dismissal of the Budget Director, Philip R. Michael -- who was found to have pressed Lockheed's case unfairly -- Mr. Dinkins had not done enough to quiet concerns about the affair, and should discipline or dismiss other aides who were faulted.
 
With Friends Like These
 That even his presumed friends would criticize the Mayor so openly, at a time of such trouble, says much about what they think their own local constituents are thinking of him in the neighborhoods where he needs to do at least as well as he did four years ago. Basically, they have decided that they risk far less by criticizing him than by not criticizing him.
Other friends of the Mayor simply tried to put the best face on his dismissal of Mr. Michael.
"It was a moment of confusion and controversy, and the Mayor showed it was possible for him to act swiftly and certainly," said Borough President Ruth W. Messinger of Manhattan. "I hope that will restore confidence so he can go on with the running of the city."
But a number of political consultants suggested that the Mayor's greatest hope now lies in the prospect that his accumulated problems -- and a new poll showing Mr. Giuliani with a comfortable lead for the first time this year -- make the former prosecutor the presumptive front-runner, and will force him to be held to higher standards.
"Rudy will now not be able to pick and choose when he drops a morsel of policy position or program," one consultant said. "The press loves to even the score, and it's a little early for him to be the favorite."
The Mayor's aides dispute the latest Daily News poll, which found Mr. Giuliani ahead by 10 points. But they do agree that Mr. Giuliani is far from invulnerable, and they say their own polling and studies of voter groups show continuing high distaste for Mr. Giuliani's hard-edged reputation and for his initial television advertising, which paints him as a warm family man.
 
'An Honest Guy'
 The Mayor's media adviser, Robert Shrum, said, "I don't believe any of this shakes people's basic perception of David Dinkins as an honest guy who's been working hard and doing his job in terrible economic circumstances.
"Would you have wanted this to happen?" Mr. Shrum asked. "No. But is it a big turning point? I don't think so, but everybody sure keeps looking for one. This is a long-term game, with many quarters."
All the polling this year has shown rock-solid blocs for both Mr. Dinkins and Mr. Giuliani, and extraordinarily few undecided voters, suggesting that such skeptics have refused to make up their minds because of any single dramatic event or issue but are weighing an accumulation of considerations about each man.
"We have to keep a very good campaign going on all the issues, and not say, 'Aha! This is it!"' Mr. Garth said. "Our job is to run a campaign, get Rudy out, and not harp too much on this or any one thing."
For his part, the Mayor retains considerable power to frame the debate, take action and call Mr. Giuliani to task to show how he would do better. But he also faces a great challenge: If he is too complacent in defending his record, he may not seem to want his job enough to deserve it again. If he grows too shrill in attacking his challenger, he risks surrendering the very mantle of mayoral stewardship and authority that Mr. Giuliani is striving so hard to inherit.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As he arrived to attend the rededication of a small park in the Clason Point section of the Bronx, Mayor Dinkins was greeted by supporters. The park, at the intersection of Lafayette and Bolton Avenues, was named after Richard Daily, a transit worker who was killed in 1991. (Susan Harris for The New York Times) (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES CO (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (70%); BUDGETS (66%); RACE & RACISM (61%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (50%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



546 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-19
 
SPENDING WEAKENS SAUDI ARABIA 

Wealthy Saudi Arabia has undermined its financial stability with a decade of profligate spending, huge military purchases and irregular banking practices. 1
 
IN FROM THE COLD IN LONDON
 
With the cold war over, Britain's secretive and reclusive spy agency is changing its image, as the expanding public profile of its new director dramatically attests. 1
 
TOUGH CHOICE IN BOSNIA
 
A draft peace accord presented by international mediators has given Bosnia's Muslims just over a week to choose between accepting defeat disguised as compromise and pursuing a war they cannot win. 14
 
A U.N. convoy with food for Mostar's Muslims is held up again. 14
 
Sanctions are taking a heavy toll on health in Yugoslavia. 14
 
RACIAL STRIFE IN ZIMBABWE
 
With an austerity program eating into his popularity and an election coming, President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe has turned to attacking the nation's white residents. 3
 
 
China launches a major campaign against corruption. 7
 
Nicaraguan officials meet to try to end a hostage standoff. 10
 
Canada's new Prime Minister is presenting herself as a populist. 19
 
 
National 20-32
 
FOSTER: A LIFE UNDONE
 
An account of the last days of Vincent Foster, the Clinton aide who died of an apparent suicide, drawn from interviews with White House officials, police investigators and long-time friends. 1
 
CLINTON'S RECLUSIVE VACATION
 
Aside from a brief run in the woods -- and away from television cameras -- on Friday, the President and his family have stayed out of sight during most of their vacation 23
 
STUBBORN CONSTRUCTION SLUMP
 
Construction, normally an important engine in America's economic recoveries and a big creator of jobs, is continuing its downward slump and acting as a drag on the the economy's rebound. 1
 
CHINESE ALIEN IS GRANTED HEARING
 
When 657 smuggled immigrants were taken from three crowded ships off Mexico last month and returned to China, the authorities brought just one man ashore to plead his case for asylum. 1
 
DEMJANJUK'S LEGAL MAZE
 
The twists and turns taken this summer by the case of John Demjanjuk have frustrated both his supporters and Jews who consider him a Nazi war criminal. 20
 
THE FLOOD AS CARTOGRAPHER
 
The Great Flood of '93 has forever changed maps of the Upper Mississippi Valley, wiping out the bridges, roads and railroad tracks that stitch the region together. 24
 
 
Metro 33-44
 
CRUCIAL POINT FOR DINKINS
 
Mayor Dinkins's problems have so accumulated that a consensus seems to have formed among citypoliticians: that the race for mayor may be Rudolph W. Giuliani's to lose. 1
 
GIULIANI STEPS UP ATTACK
 
Rudolph W. Giuliani has used the outcry over the awarding of a Parking Violations Bureau contract to raise broader questions about the overall competence of the Dinkins administration. 36
 
IN NEW JERSEY, AN ISSUE OF WEALTH
 
Wealth has become a central issue in the New Jersey gubernatorial race between Gov. Jim Florio, a Democrat, and his challenger, Christine Todd Whitman, a multi-millionaire Republican. 33
 
BRUTAL DEATH STUNS A VILLAGE
 
The death of 4-year-old Derrick Robie shocked the 970 residents of Savona, N.Y. But they were left numb by the arrest of a suspect: 13-year-old Eric Smith, who looks like the quintessential small-town boy. 33
 
Obituaries 42

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DEMJANJUK WAR CRIMES CASE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); RACE & RACISM (76%); MAYORS (75%); RELIGION (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); WAR CRIMES (72%); ESPIONAGE (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (62%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (62%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (60%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (60%); GEOGRAPHY (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); HOSTAGE TAKING (52%); SUICIDE (51%); SMUGGLING (50%); PARKING OFFENSES (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (72%); JOHN DEMJANJUK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



547 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Perot Assails Clinton Economic Plan

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TROY, N.Y., Aug. 21

 BODY:
In his first speaking tour of New York State since becoming a political force, Ross Perot today criticized the Clinton economic plan, called for rejection of the North American Free Trade Agreement and urged his supporters to make a difference in elections at all levels.
"In 1994, the entire House of Representatives is running for office and one-third of the Senate is running for office, right?" Mr. Perot asked a crowd of about 1,500 people in a half-empty college gymnasium in Troy. "You can be the swing vote across this country, every place in the country." 
 Mr. Perot said in his 70-minute speech here that voters should demand changes in the economic plan just passed by Congress and signed by President Clinton, which is intended to make modest reductions in the Federal Government by raising a variety of taxes and cutting spending on programs like Medicare.
 
'Make It Clear'
 "Just make it clear that if they want your vote they're going to have to give us an overhauled plan that balances the budget and pays down the debt, because it is wrong to leave our children this burden," Mr. Perot said. "And we want the line-item veto, we want a balanced-budget amendment and, finally, we want a term-limits law that at a minimum kicks in if they don't stay on this plan and phase it down."
Mr. Perot scheduled four stops on his trip to New York -- Buffalo on Friday night, Syracuse and Troy today, and Stony Brook, L.I., tonight. He attracted about 3,000 listeners in Buffalo.
Organizers in Syracuse had expected more than 2,500 people to pack the Crouse-Hinds auditorium at the Onondaga County Civic Center, but only about 1,000 people attended.
The 90-minute rally combined elements of a whistle-stop tour, tent revival and book promotion, as Mr. Perot spoke about his favorite topics: Congressional benefits, lobbyists, the North American Free Trade Agreement, trade with Vietnam and the national economy.
"What kind of people are we?" Mr. Perot asked in Syracuse. "We are people who work hard. We play by the rules. We live in the center field of ethical behavior. We take responsibility for rearing good children."
Earlier this year Mr. Perot, a Texan, pledged to speak in all 50 states in 1993 in an effort to encourage membership in his political organization, United We Stand America. After this weekend he will have appeared in 68 cities in 31 states, said Sharon Holman, his press secretary.
In the 1992 Presidential campaign, Mr. Perot won won 16 percent of the vote in New York.
 
Respect From Cuomo
 That was less than the 19 percent of the vote that Mr. Perot won nationwide, but it was more than enough to capture the attention of many New York politicians, particularly Gov. Mario M. Coumo, who may run for a fourth four-year term next year.
Mr. Cuomo has made no secret of his respect for Mr. Perot and has taken several steps to endear himself to Perot supporters. He has called repeatedly for a state constitutional convention, a populist vehicle that could circumvent the Legislature to change the state's election laws. Last week he met at length with a delegation of Perot supporters.
The Governor was not scheduled to meet with Mr. Perot during his visit to the state, said his press secretary, Anne W. Crowley.
 
The Loss of Jobs
 Mr. Perot dedicated a large portion of his speeches today to the trade agreement, which he called the "Mexican trade agreement." After remarking on the tens of thousands of jobs lost in New York in the last year because of layoffs by Eastman Kodak and I.B.M., Mr. Perot said the agreement would lead to huge losses of American jobs to Mexico.
"I cannot find it in my heart that it is proper to take your job to a country just because they want the job and it might help the country, but it would destroy our country," said Mr. Perot, who is about to publish a book on the subject.
Mr. Perot also bemoaned the country's widening trade deficit.
"Right now, the two principal exports out of New York Harbor are scrap steel and scrap paper going to Japan," he said. "They go right past the Statue of Liberty, the beacon to the world. Those raw materials come back to our country as Japanese autos, and the paper is made into corrugated boxes into which they put their sophisticated consumer electronics. "This has not happened because the American worker is dumb, stupid, lazy or unproductive. This has happened because of the way our Government has mismanaged trade over the years."
The same themes were touched at Stony Brook tonight, with about 5,000 people attending.
The loss of manufacturing jobs in the country, Mr. Perot said there, constituted a military as well as economic threat.
"We cannot defend this great country unless we can manufacture," he said. "Can you imagine what would happen if we had to go to the rest of the world and ask for materials?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross Perot held a 90-minute rally early yesterday in downtown Syracuse. He spoke about topics including Congressional benefits, lobbyists, the North American Free Trade Agreement and the economy. Mr. Perot also promoted two of his books. He greeted Ryan McIntyre after the rally. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TROY (NY) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; ELECTIONS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ETHICS (76%); VETO (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TERM LIMITS (72%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (70%); MEDICARE (68%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



548 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: Wealth Not Always Fatal Handicap in New Jersey Politics

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Aug. 21

 BODY:
From the earthy, pipe-smoking Congresswoman Millicent H. Fenwick to former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, who traced his family wealth and political lineage to Colonial times, politics has long been a popular calling for some of New Jersey's wealthiest citizens.
And while their opponents occasionally took aim at their wealth or patrician backgrounds, the attacks seldom caused any lasting damage. 
 But against the grain of that tradition, wealth has become a central issue in this year's gubernatorial race between Gov. Jim Florio, a Democrat, and his Republican challenger, Christine Todd Whitman, as Mr. Florio has tried mightily to convince voters that his multimillionaire opponent is out of touch with them.
"It's not a matter of how much money you have," said Mr. Florio. "I suppose whether you are rich or poor you could still be out of touch with the people, and it is clear that she just doesn't get it."
Polls show that Mr. Florio and Mrs. Whitman are in a dead heat in the gubernatorial race, although no public polls have specifically addressed the question of her wealth. Moreover, none have been conducted in the last week as the debate swirled over Mrs. Whitman's rural estate and the agricultural tax breaks she received.
 
A Smaller Target
 A growing chorus of Republican voices has encouraged Mrs. Whitman to go on the attack against Mr. Florio over tax increases, the state's economy and ethical questions about his administration, warning that every day she delays, she runs the risk of having Mr. Florio and his chief political strategist, James Carville, define her as a candidate.
But Mrs. Whitman's strategy has been to ignore the Florio attacks and to continue on the stump, frequently outside the view of the media, to provide as small a political target as possible for Mr. Florio.
"If he were to run on his record, he would be pretty defensive throughout this campaign," said Mrs. Whitman, the first woman candidate for governor in New Jersey under a major party banner.
That Mr. Florio, and Mrs. Whitman's Republican primary rivals before him, would try to turn her wealth into an issue is hardly new to New Jersey politics. Political opponents of both Mrs. Fenwick and Mr. Kean tried to use similar strategies, but to no avail.
Mrs. Whitman has not been as fortunate, experts say, largely because she lacks the political track record and is not as well known as her patrician predecessors.
Experts say the experiences of Mrs. Whitman and politicians like Mr. Kean reflect the conflicting public attitudes about wealthy candidates. "On the one hand there is a sort of envy, and on the other hand there's the idea that the wealthy can't be bought," said Stephen A. Salmore, a Republican consultant and a political science professor at Rutgers University.
 
Wealthy Representation
 Both United States Senators from New Jersey are millionaires: Bill Bradley, a former star in the National Basketball Association, and Frank R. Lautenberg, who made a fortune as head of Automatic Data Processing, a company that processes the paychecks of 1 out of every 14 nongovernment workers in the nation.
But wealth has never been a political issue for either of the Senators, both of whom are Democrats. In fact, Mr. Lautenberg spent $5 million of his own money in his 1988 campaign, without suffering politically, as he defeated Pete Dawkins, a Republican multimillionaire.
Mrs. Fenwick, daughter of Ogden H. Hammond, a financier and state legislator, grew up in a 50-room mansion in Bernardsville, N.J. But by the time she won her first seat in the State Legislature in 1970, at the age of 59, and went on to Congress five years later, she had worked as a fashion model, an author and an editor and spent decades in public service.
With such a background, Mrs. Fenwick, who died last year, was molded into a colorful personality whose character transcended wealth. Her idiosyncrasies made her nearly a cult figure and inspired the Lacey Davenport character in Garry Trudeau's "Doonesbury" cartoons.
 
Kean's Success
 But Mr. Kean had to work a bit harder. In his first run for the Republican gubernatorial nomination in 1981, an early challenge was to overcome the image of a blue blood, even though he had already served 10 years in the State Assembly.
Mr. Kean's ancestors include the 17th-century Governor of New Amsterdam, Peter Stuyvesant, and New Jersey's first constitutional governor. His father, the late Robert Winthrop Kean, served in the United States House of Representatives from 1939 to 1959, and his family's ownership of vast tracts of real estate and Elizabethtown Water Company, one of the state's largest utilities, made him one of the richest politicians in the state.
During the primary, one of Mr. Kean's three challengers, Joseph A. (Bo) Sullivan, tried to portray him as out of touch with common folk, using a political ad that said, "This isn't the kind of guy who would buy you a beer in Bayonne," a working-class community in northern New Jersey.
Mr. Kean won a convincing primary victory and then, before his Democratic opponent, Jim Florio, could use the issue against him, he took the political wind out of it by joining Mr. Sullivan at a Bayonne bar for a post-primary beer.
"I didn't think that kind of campaigning worked very well then and I don't think it works well now," said Mr. Kean, who defeated Mr. Florio in 1981 to win the first of two terms in office. "The voters didn't buy it with Jack Kennedy or the Roosevelts or the Rockefellers. The public just wants you to be yourself."
 
'On the Defensive'
 But that assessment is being tested with Mrs. Whitman's candidacy. Like Mr. Kean and Mrs. Fenwick, Mrs. Whitman was born into wealth and politics, but unlike them, she did not come into political bloom with a wealth of experience. That has exposed her to an unyielding campaign by her opponents to portray her as a political dilettante.
"Millicent Fenwick became the Lacey Davenport of Doonesbury and that image of her as a fighter for the smaller person was clearly identified by the public," said Neil Upmeyer, president of the Princeton-based Center of Analysis of Public Issues. "A guy like Kean can have a drink with the boys at the blue-collar bar, but Christine Whitman can't do that because it would look phony.
"Wealth doesn't necessarily play against her, but it puts her on the defensive and it forces her to explain how she will relate to the people of New Jersey."
Mrs. Whitman's late father, Webster B. Todd, was Republican state chairman for a decade, a prominent figure in national Republican politics and an adviser to President Dwight D. Eisenhower. He amassed a family fortune as a building contractor whose projects included Rockefeller Center, Radio City Music Hall and Colonial Williamsburg, Va.
Her mother, the late Eleanor Schley Todd, was a Republican national committeewoman and led the New Jersey Federation of Republican Women.
Mrs. Whitman, 46, has never held a job in the private sector, but worked for the Federal Office of Economic Opportunity and the Republican National Committee, and was appointed by Mr. Kean in 1988 to head the State's Board of Public Utilities.
She had never held an elected office above a seat on the Somerset County Board of Chosen Freeholders, the governing body for the county, before she quit the public utilities board in 1990 to challenge Mr. Bradley. Focusing her campaign on Mr. Bradley's refusal to comment on the record $2.8 billion tax increase that Mr. Florio, a fellow Democrat, had pushed through the Legislature, Mrs. Whitman came within two percentage points, or fewer than 59,000 votes, of beating the incumbent.
It was her springboard to the gubernatorial race.
Her lack of experience could have been a fatal flaw in a gubernatorial race. But with the current anti-incumbency mood of the public, Mr. Florio has shied away from attacking her as inexperienced.
"I don't think wealth is an issue unless it is an indication that someone is out of touch," said Mr. Salmore, the political science professor. "But it's not something you can just say about someone, you have to show it.
"There were times during the primary when Christie raised that impression."
 
A String of Blunders
 Mrs. Whitman has also been hurt by a string of public-relations blunders during her primary campaign, which Mr. Carville has catalogued and has promised to use in ads against her.
She begin her primary campaign with the admission that she had failed to pay Social Security taxes on two undocumented immigrants working for her. And later, she skipped her local school election in Tewksbury on the day she was touting her education package for the state. She explained that she felt it was out of place for her to vote since her children attend private schools. The local school budget failed after the vote ended in a tie.
Also, asked to comment on a debate over the state's $500 tax rebate to homeowners and to some renters, Mrs. Whitman was quoted as saying, "Funny as it might seem, $500 is a lot of money to some people." She acknowledges making the comment, but said it was taken out of context.
With the Nov. 2 election months away, Mrs. Whitman reasons that Mr. Florio's attempts to convince voters that she is out of touch have had no impact on a public that she believes has yet to start paying serious attention to the race.
"Clearly it is something that he is going to try to do," said Mrs. Whitman. "I'm not trying to pretend that it won't have any kind of effect. But I just have greater faith in the people than that. People in this state have had such a history of seeing through this kind of stuff."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christie Todd Whitman with a calf in her barn in Lamington, N.J. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); In 1981, Millicent Fenwick worked on legislation at her home in Bernardsville, N.J. (The New York Times) (pg. 33); Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey is a millionaire. The Rhodes scholar became financially successful by playing basketball with the New York Knicks. He posed in Manhattan after joining the club in 1967. (The New York Times) (pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES, PERSONAL; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); SMOKING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ETHICS (71%); TAX LAW (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



549 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Diphtheria in Russia Worsens, Killing 100 in '93

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 21

 BODY:
Russia's diphtheria epidemic is worsening, with more than 4,000 cases already reported this year, the same number as for all of 1992, and more than 100 deaths. This fallout from the collapse of the Soviet Union and its increasingly creaky system of health care prompted Russia last week to announce a mass immunization program over the next two years.
By contrast, in the mid-1970's, there were fewer than 200 cases a year of diphtheria in the entire Soviet Union. In the United States last year, there were four cases. 
 Diphtheria is transmitted, like the flu, by airborne bacteria and causes inflammation of the heart and nervous system. Untreated, it can cause rapid death. Those most at risk are young children who have not been immunized and adults who have let their inoculations lapse.
Some 70 percent of those who have died in the current epidemic are adults, according to the Russian State Committee for Epidemiological Control. Russians are traditionally wary of vaccinations, and stories are common of bad or dirty needles and contaminated vaccines, making many hesitant about being immunized.
According to the World Health Organization, only 47 percent of Russian children less than a year old were immunized for diphtheria in 1991.
Russia's deputy chief epidemiologist, Anatoly A. Monisov, said last week that of all the varying reports of typhoid, cholera and tuberculosis surfacing in Russia lately, "diphtheria is the most alarming." He said that only two million of Moscow's 7.5 million adults had been vaccinated and only 15 percent of adults throughout Russia.
While Westerners are considered safe due to childhood immunizations and tetanus-diphtheria booster shots every 10 years, Thomson Holidays, one of Britain's largest travel companies, has suspended its tours to Moscow and St. Petersburg from the end of August. Thomson said its clients found it difficult to get inoculations quickly.
But concern among Europeans has risen sharply with the death on Wednesday of a 62-year-old Belgian woman, Anne Petit, who is believed to have contracted diphtheria here. The Belgian Embassy announced the death on Friday.
The result has been a rush on the two main private health clinics that serve foreigners here. The American Medical Center says that companies have been calling to seek mass inoculations of their staffs and the center expects to vaccinate 5,000 people a day over the weekend, subject to supplies. The European Medical Center says it is also being swamped with calls.
There have been reports of small increases in other infectious diseases normally associated with poorer, less developed countries. The Russian State Committee for Epidemiological Control says there have been 22 cases of cholera registered in Russia in the first six months of the year, with one death. In 1992, there were five cases reported; in 1991, two cases.
This year, there have been reports of cholera along the Volga River in Nizhny Novgorod, Krasnodar and the Caucasus. But all cases are believed to have been brought by travelers returning from infected areas of India, the Middle East and Asia. Dr. Monisov, the committee's deputy chief epidemiologist, said that two of five cases in Moscow -- a vagrant and a fisherman -- appear to have caught the disease in Russia, but not in Moscow.
Other rare diseases have been emerging in Russia as the continuing economic crisis affects personal hygiene as well as Government spending on health care.
Dr. Monisov said that cases of tuberculosis were up 26 percent this year and that typhoid fever, which hit the southern city of Vogodonsk this month, has been confirmed in 139 people. There has also been an outbreak of anthrax in Altai, in central Russia.
Dr. Monisov said the mass immunization program aimed to insure that 90 percent of Russia's children and 75 percent of adults were vaccinated by 1995. He said Russia advised visitors to make sure they were inoculated against diphtheria. "It's not a great imposition," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (52%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (52%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (67%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (67%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: DIPHTHERIA; EPIDEMICS; IMMUNIZATION AND IMMUNITY; MEDICINE AND HEALTH VACCINES (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); TROPICAL DISEASES (89%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (89%); CHILDREN (88%); DISEASE REPORTING (78%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (78%); TUBERCULOSIS (75%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); BACTERIA (70%); HEART DISEASE (69%); TRAVEL AGENTS (63%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



550 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Painful Choices for Bosnia's Muslims, Painful Politics for the West

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GENEVA, Aug. 21

 BODY:
A draft peace accord presented by international mediators here on Friday has given Bosnia and Herzegovina's Muslims just over a week to choose between accepting defeat disguised as compromise and pursuing a war they cannot win.
But the plan also poses a tricky problem for Western Governments. They too must decide whether to endorse a peace that recognizes the annexation of territory by force and rewards "ethnic cleansing," or to become more deeply involved in a war they are eager to see brought to an end. 
 These unwanted alternatives are linked. If the Bosnian Muslims reject the proposed terms when peace talks resume here on Aug. 30, it will be because they think that Western intervention can still get them a better deal at the bargaining table. But they would risk being blamed for continuation of the fighting and civilian casualties.
But if they reluctantly accept the peace plan, it will be up to the West -- mainly the United States and the European Community -- to enforce an agreement in which the realities of war have imposed themselves on the principles of international law.
The proposed accord presented by the European Community's mediator, Lord Owen, and the United Nations envoy, Thorvald Stoltenberg, is based on a plan drawn up by Serbia and Croatia under which Bosnia and Herzegovina would be partitioned into three autonomous ethnic republics under a weak central government.
The initial response of the President of Bosnia's existing Muslim-dominated Government, Alija Izetbegovic, was that "we are not satisfied with what we have been offered" because Bosnian Serbs would retain some territory they have conquered. But he added that "in a corrected form," the plan could bring peace.
Reluctant to assume sole responsibility for accepting or rejecting the proposal, Mr. Izetbegovic now intends to take it to Muslim members of his Parliament. "I will recommend that the assembly consider the plan -- its bad and maybe its good sides," he told the BBC.
 
Some Are Highly Dissatisfied
 But other Bosnian Muslim delegates took a harder line. Foreign Minister Haris Silajdzic called the proposal "an ultimatum and a diktat." Another diplomat, Mustafa Bijadic, asked: "How can we be satisfied when we got nothing? Only cosmetic changes of the Serb-Croat plan were presented to us."
During the negotiations this week, it was also agreed that the United Nations would administer the Bosnian capital, Sarajevo, for two years while a permanent solution was sought. In the proposed accord, the mediators included a suggestion by the Muslims that another devastated city, Mostar, be run by the European Community for a similar period.
What the Muslims find most difficult to accept is the distribution of territory among the three republics. Although Muslims would be given 30 percent of Bosnia's land, compared with the 10 percent their troops now control, Bosnia's ethnic Serbs would retain much of the eastern areas, where Muslims were in a majority before the war.
Can the Muslims hope to reverse this conquest? Lord Owen said on Friday that he was disappointed that the Muslims had not been offered more Serbian-controlled land in the east and around their northwestern enclave, Bihac. But officials involved in the peace talks said that even Slobodan Milosevic, Serbia's President, was unable to persuade his fellow Serbs in Bosnia to be more flexible.
Mr. Milosevic, who hopes that an end to the war will result in the lifting of economic sanctions against his country, said the negotiations were successful "and the whole package should be accepted." Croatia's President, Franjo Tudjman, who also joined the talks here, also supported the peace plan.
The Bosnian Serbs' leader, Dr. Radovan Karadzic, argued that he would have trouble selling the agreement to his legislative body, which had rejected an earlier plan proposed by mediators in the spring. He also maintained that the Serbs were making major concessions. "We own 64 percent of the territory," he said, "and we come down to 52 or 53 percent."
 
Karadzic's Grudging Assent
 But he made clear that he, too, would recommend acceptance of the proposal, and "I will fight for it."
He warned the Muslims against choosing further war over peace. "It would mean big, big trouble," Dr. Karadzic said in an interview with the Reuters news agency. "Muslims wouldn't have a chance against the Christian majority."
If, as expected, the leader of Bosnia's ethnic Croats, Mate Boban, and Dr. Karadzic are ready to sign the agreement on Aug. 30, Mr. Izetbegovic may still try to extract concessions, above all by having the eastern enclaves of Srebrenica and Zepa attached to the future Muslim republic rather than simply linked by road to the nearby Muslim town of Gorazde.
An important factor will be how the Muslim President reads the West's intentions. In recent weeks, he has swung between optimism and pessimism -- optimism when the United States persuaded NATO allies to threaten air strikes against the Serbs' positions, pessimism when no such strikes were carried out. This week, he concluded, probably realistically, that the West wanted "agreement now, at any cost."
Certainly, while France, Britain, Spain and Canada have contributed troops to the United Nations peace force in Bosnia, the West has shown no appetite for getting involved in the sort of ground war that many believe would be needed to force the Bosnian Serbs to give up more land than they are to surrender under the peace plan.
 
Fractious Allies
 And with differences over the Bosnian war straining relations both between the United States and the European Community, and within the 12-nation community, Western officials have strong political reasons to want the war to be settled and to disappear from the front pages of newspapers.
The Muslims' best hope for sympathy, then, lies less with Western governments than with Western public opinion. Many ordinary people have responded with horror to the plight of Muslim women raped by Serbs, starving Muslim refugees in Srebrenica and a wounded 5-year-old Muslim girl in Sarajevo.
Even when polls have shown people's desire that their governments "do something," Western governments -- operating through the United Nations and NATO -- have gone no further than to impose sanctions on the Serbian Government in Belgrade, send relief convoys, threaten to take Serbian and Croatian leaders before a war-crimes tribunal, and warn of air strikes.
In the coming days, Western officials will be asked to respond to the proposed peace accord, especially when Lord Owen and Mr. Stoltenberg formally present it to the Security Council. But it is clear that the West is reluctant to raise the Bosnian Muslims' hopes that it is ready to do more.
"If the Muslims reject this plan," a Western diplomat said, "they may be offered even less next time."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); EUROPE (93%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); EUROPE (93%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ISLAM; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES RELIGION (93%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



551 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Canada Chief In Fast Start On Campaign

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TORONTO, Aug. 21

 BODY:
Trying to distance herself from her unpopular predecessor, Kim Campbell, Prime Minister of Canada for the last two months, is presenting herself as a populist who rides subways, worries about her mortgage and the price of milk and wants to change politics here.
Comparing Ottawa, the capital, to the Land of Oz, she has been telling Canadians in gatherings from coast to coast that if she wins an election this fall, she will review pensions of federal politicians, require more disclosure by lobbyists, do away with budget secrecy and reform the process of political appointments. She has already trimmed the Cabinet and laid off some civil servants. 
 Ms. Campbell has not called an election yet, but for all intents and purposes the campaign has begun. The election must be held before December. Most analysts are predicting late October.
She has an advantage because of the bully pulpit of the Prime Minister's Office. Her disadvantage is the legacy of Brian Mulroney, who governed during a deep recession and heavy job losses and promoted freer trade with the United States, which more than half the voters say they would scrub.
 
Distance From Mulroney
 In Charlottetown on Prince Edward Island this week, Ms. Campbell demonstrated the lengths she will go to erase the memory of her predecessor. Asked whether she would seek his help as a vigorous and experienced campaigner, she said:
"It has always been my experience that third parties are not all that effective. Most people want to hear from those who are the candidates themselves."
Asked specifically about her stance with respect to Mr. Mulroney, she replied: "We have a new vision. We will put it very clearly."
That vision has yet to be fully elucidated. But the strategy of populism, intended to capitalize on the public's growing cynicism about government, and her apparent effort to bury the Mulroney ghost seem to be working.
An Angus Reid Group poll recently showed her personal approval ratings at over 50 percent, the first time in 40 years that any Canadian leader's ratings have reached such heights.
 
'Master of Image Politics'
 "So far she's pushed all the right buttons and is proving to be a master of image politics," Mr. Reid said in a telephone interview from Vancouver.
Yet the polls still show her Progressive Conservatives about 5 percentage points behind the Liberals, led by Jean Chretien.
Patrick J. Monahan, a law professor at York University, said Ms. Campbell's overriding difficulty is to maneuver against the backdrop of widely unpopular programs, like a tax on goods and services enacted three years ago and the North American Free Trade Agreement with the United States and Mexico.
"Those are going to be awfully big obstacles for her this fall," he said, adding that while distancing herself from Mr. Mulroney, who has returned to a law practice in Montreal, she has yet to indicate what substantial changes she will make in his policies.
 
Third Party Is Weak
 Still another problem for the Tories is the weakness of the New Democratic Party, a Socialist-oriented third national party, which controls the provincial governments of Ontario, British Columbia and Saskatchewan, but has recently seen support collapse because of unpopular economic programs.
For the Tories to do well in the elections, many political analysts believe, the New Democrats must be sufficiently strong to divide the anti-Government vote and thus cut into the Liberals' support. Recent polls show their strength to be only in single digits.
The Tories have been in power since 1984. For 42 of the previous 50 years, Liberals had run the show in Ottawa.
While Ms. Campbell, 47, has been dashing around the country riding subways, playing host on talk shows, tossing baseballs, flipping flapjacks, munching hot dogs and kissing babies, Mr. Chretien, 59, has had a more quiet summer, mixing occasional politics with fishing and water-skiing at his cottage in Quebec.
 
Lack of Mandate Cited
 He takes the position that his rival is afraid to call an election. He accuses her of practicing her routines at public expense, traveling around the country on Government aircraft with no mandate from the people, and in no hurry to get one. She became Prime Minister when she was elected party leader in June after Mr. Mulroney resigned.
"The best sign that we are winning the election is that they are afraid to call an election," he said recently. "As the great American philosopher and boxer Joe Louis said, in the ring you can run, but you cannot hide. We'll have her in a corner soon."
But there are signs of Liberal worry about all the attention Ms. Campbell has been attracting. This week, earlier than intended, the party jumped into the pre-election fray by unveiling one of its major proposals -- a plan to create jobs by making technology and credit more easily accessible to small business.
Compounding the Liberals' problems is that Mr. Chretien, who served in the Government of Pierre Trudeau, a former Liberal Prime Minister, is widely seen as yesterday's man.
Mr. Reid, the poll-taker, said, "Canadians will have a difficult choice this fall -- a fresh face leading a tired party or a tired face leading a fresh party."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, CANADA (58%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (58%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (72%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, CANADA (58%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (58%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); MILK (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); LAW SCHOOLS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; CAMPBELL, KIM (PRIME MIN); MULRONEY, BRIAN JEAN CHRETIEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



552 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 13; Column 6; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: RESULTS PLUS

 BODY:

TENNIS
 
Becker to Play Courier
Third-seeded Boris Becker, who has never lost to second-seeded Jim Courier in six previous meetings, will get a chance to extend the streak today in the championship match of the RCA Hardcourts championships in Indianapolis. Becker, ranked No. 4 in the world, advanced to the final by holding off the challenge of No. 139 Patrick Rafter of Australia, 6-4, 3-6, 6-4, in yesterday's first semifinal at the Indianapolis Tennis Center. Courier, who will reclaim his designation as the world's top men's player when the new rankings are released tomorrow, defeated Luiz Mattar of Brazil, 6-3, 6-2, in the other semifinal. (AP) 

Graf Mauls Maleeva-Fragniere: Steffi Graf conducted a tennis clinic yesterday in a 6-2, 6-1 semifinal defeat of Switzerland's Manuela Maleeva-Fragniere to advance to the finals of the Canadian Open tennis tournament in Toronto. Graf, seeded No. 1, will meet Jennifer Capriati, a 7-6 (10-8), 6-2 semifinal winner over defending champion Arantxa Sanchez Vicario. (AP)
 
GOLF
 
Stockton Leads GTE
Dave Stockton had three birdies and an eagle yesterday in a four-under-par 68 that gave him a one-stroke lead over Bert Yancey and Dale Douglass after two rounds of the $500,000 GTE Northwest Classic in Kenmore, Wash. Stockton, who has a 36-hole total of 133, is going for his fourth Senior Tour victory of the year and second in a row. (AP)
 
Rarick Leads Minnesota Classic: Cindy Rarick shot a three-under-par 69 for a one-stroke lead over Jody Anschutz after two rounds of the Minnesota LPGA Classic in Brooklyn Park, Minn. Rarick, who won the 1991 event, headed into the final round of the $450,000 tournament at Edinburgh USA with a total of eight-under 136. (AP)
 
RUNNING
 
Bell Wins 2,912-Miler
Raymond Bell, an unemployed nuclear power-plant technician, completed a grueling journey across the United States yesterday and won the second annual Trans-America Footrace, the world's longest ultramarathon. Bell, 46 years old, of Hudson, Fla., crossed the finish line in Central Park just after 11 A.M., ending a 64-day, 2,912-mile trek that began June 19 in Huntington Beach, Calif. Bell's winning time was 486 hours 41 minutes 8 seconds. He covered the 30.1-mile final leg from South Orange, N.J., to New York in 5:28:36. The race went through 12 states, and along the way Bell endured 120-degree temperatures in the Mojave Desert, hailstorms on the plains of Kansas and even an attack by red ants as he slept in an abandoned California gas station with a group of other competitors. He also wore out 10 pairs of running shoes in averaging 46 miles a day. Thirteen runners began the race, but only six were able to go the distance. Patrick Farmer, 31, of Sydney, Australia, finished second with a total time of 502:30:23. Lorna Michael, 35, of Wausau, Wis. -- one of two woman entrants, but the only woman to finish -- was third in 586:15:07. (AP)
 
BOXING
 
Vasquez Defends Title
Julio Cesar Vasquez defended his World Boxing Association super-welterweight title yesterday with a 12-round decision over Aaron Davis in Monaco. Vasquez, of Argentina, improved to 44-1 with 33 knockouts in his fourth title defense. (AP)
 
SOCCER
 
Newcastle Gains a Tie
Andy Cole scored a second-half goal as Newcastle gained a 1-1 tie yesterday against the defending champion, Manchester United. United appeared headed for a third straight shutout after a Welsh winger, Ryan Giggs, scored on a first-half free kick. But Cole tied the game 19 minutes before the end, and Newcastle's Czech goalie, Pavel Srnicek, blocked a shot from Brian McClair to deny the home team a victory. United has seven points from three games, while Everton and Ipswich both won to maintain their perfect starts. Tony Cottee scored three times as Everton beat Sheffield United, 4-2, and Ipswich edged Chelsea, 1-0, on Ian Marshall's third goal of the season. Norwich rolled to a 4-0 victory at Leeds. A goal from the England international striker, Ian Wright, gave Arsenal a 1-0 victory over Sheffield Wednesday. Forward Roy Wegerle of the United States netted Coventry's equalizer in a 1-1 tie with West Ham at Coventry. Tottenham beat Manchester City, and Blackburn beat Oldham, both by scores of 1-0. (AP)
 
CYCLING
 
Neiwand Takes a Gold
Gary Neiwand of Australia won his second gold medal of the world cycling championships in Hamar, Norway, yesterday when he beat Marty Nothstein of the United States in the keirin event. Meanwhile, Ingrid Haringa of the Netherlands won the womens' points race final with 27, while Svetlana Samokhvalova of Russia was second with 16 and Jessica Grieco of Emerson, N.J., was third with 14. In keirin, motorcycles set the cyclist's pace, creating a slipstream. The motorcyclists then take off, leaving the bikers to sprint to the finish using the momentum they have gained from the motorcycle. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CANADA (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (91%); MINNESOTA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (91%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: HUNTINGTON BEACH DODGE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CANADA (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (91%); MINNESOTA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (91%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TENNIS (92%); SPORTS (92%); GOLF (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (79%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (67%); MARATHONS (66%); WEATHER (60%); POWER PLANTS (60%); 

PERSON: BORIS BECKER (74%); JIM COURIER (74%); STEFFI GRAF (70%); JENNIFER CAPRIATI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



553 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 34; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: More on the Question of Buying Black

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Bravo to Bernard W. Kinsey ("Nothing Else Has Worked. Buy Black," Viewpoints, Aug. 1) for the courage to say what we have privately thought for years -- that the minority community has enough capital and consumers to almost guarantee success to small minority store owners in the inner city. 
 Ironically, that same day, Reggie Jackson was inducted into America's highest shrine outside the White House: the Baseball Hall of Fame. The question arose: Why is it we have never seen a retail establishment bearing the name Reggie Jackson?
Endorsing a candy bar or fielder's glove makes the endorser richer but nobody else. It sets up no mom-and-pop stores with the children stocking the shelves and learning first hand what makes American free enterprise work -- long hours at the job making one's own business succeed.
Come to think of it, we have never seen on retail stores that sell life's necessities such names as Michael Jordan, Michael Jackson, Magic Johnson or any of the small army of minority entertainers and athletes whose salaries are way up there.
It's dunk, dunk, dunk, dribble, dribble, dribble -- but for what final end? Where does their money go? Those dunking and dribbling kids in the fields of death we call the American inner city don't seem to get much beneficial spin-off from the celebrities' millions.
No longer do we buy the argument that there is no capital to initiate minority-run businesses.
If the minority churches focused on skills, capital and customers as they did in the 1960's civil rights movement, they could effect a massive economic revolution.
There is plenty of business expertise out there waiting for training. Capital? Put the arm on those millionaire athletes and entertainers.
 
GRAHAM R. HODGES
Liverpool, N.Y., Aug. 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); SMALL BUSINESS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CELEBRITIES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); BASEBALL (71%); RELIGION (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); 

PERSON: HODGES, GRAHAM R MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



554 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Among the Swells

 BODY:
Has Bill Clinton, restlessly seeking a summer White House he can call his own, found his Casa Atlantica in Martha's Vineyard? The fit is pretty good, if not perfect. Mr. Clinton likes policy, and Martha's Vineyard is loaded with policymakers. He likes celebrities, and Martha's Vineyard has them, too. He doesn't much like media folk, which the Vineyard is also full of, but then again nobody's ever found a picnic spot without bugs.
Parts of Martha's Vineyard are basically Washington moved upstream. There are plenty of people there who do not consider themselves movers and shakers. But with Walter Cronkite and Kay Graham and Bob McNamara and Vernon ("I'm just another islander") Jordan as neighbors, no one is going to confuse the place with Lake of the Ozarks. 
 Fact is, the man from L'il Abner's home state is headed smack into the belly of the beast he pledged to control: the Washington establishment. He's staying at a place owned by Robert McNamara, a primary architect and zealous prosecutor of a war Mr. Clinton wanted no part of, in a compound of grand cottages where casual simplicity is not to be confused with poverty. And the host for Mr. Clinton's 47th birthday party was Mr. Jordan, chairman of Mr. Clinton's transition team.
Mr. Clinton's decision to relax in the company of mainstream millionaires is of interest. He can surely vacation wherever he wants, and nobody begrudges him a well-earned week of repose, but Presidents are never really off duty; everything they do sends a message. One need only recall George Bush, racing around in his golf cart and his speedboat at the very apex of the recession even though Roger Ailes and Bob Teeter were telling him that his recreation was killing him in the polls.
Comes now what could be a psychic message from Mr. Bush's successor, which is that Mr. Clinton may be just as mystified as some of his constituents are as to who he is. Quite apart from the confused generational signals sent by his decision to bed down at Mr. McNamara's, his quest for summertime digs has been a study in uncertainty.
Right after the election his Hollywood pals the Bloodworth-Thomasons leased a Santa Barbara spread. That didn't quite work, so this year the Clintons high-tailed it to Benton County, Ark., headquarters of the Walmart empire and home to maybe 30 other millionaires. Then, after what seems a ritual visit, Populist Bill pulls up stakes and heads for the most elitist haunt this side of Vail, Colo.
In deciding against his home state as a summer nest, Mr. Clinton is at one with Gerald Ford, who gave Grand Rapids, Mich., a very wide berth in favor of Palm Springs. Most other recent Presidents have returned in one way or another to a place to which they could stake a passably authentic historical claim: Franklin Roosevelt to Campobello, Messrs. Nixon and Reagan to California, Mr. Bush to Kennebunkport, Lyndon Johnson to Texas, Jimmy Carter to Georgia.
There is, of course, the town called Hope. But Hope is not really a summer place and it's also a tad remote from the things that keep Mr. Clinton humming. What we have here is a vagabond President whose only true home may be the town called Network. Hence the Vineyard. After all, the man said he wanted a cabinet that looked like America, not a vacation spot that did.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (61%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); 

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (96%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (77%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (61%); CASA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CASA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MARTHA'S VINEYARD (MASS) UNITED STATES (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (96%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (77%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; TRAVEL, PERSONAL EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); RECESSION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ROGER AILES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



555 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: The Real Reason for Sweeping Yards Is Snakes;
Plantation Power

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"In Georgia's Swept Yards, a Dying Tradition" (front page, Aug. 8) quotes Richard Westmacott, professor of landscape architecture at the University of Georgia, on the livestock raised by slaves on plantations in the antebellum South. "What distinguished a good slaveowner from a bad one," Mr. Westmacott says, "was things like whether or not you were allowed to keep a hog or chickens." 
 Mr. Westmacott's statement requires qualification in light of scholarship on the independent economic activities of slaves, such as "The Slaves' Economy: Independent Production by Slaves in the Americas" (London, 1991), edited by Ira Berlin and Philip D. Morgan, and my own "Economy and Material Culture of Slaves: Goods and Chattels on the Sugar Plantations of Jamaica and Louisiana" (Baton Rouge, 1993).
Raising small livestock was part of the economic systems slave communities organized throughout the South. These activities likely functioned at some level on all plantations, albeit often limited, but their existence was not a consequence of whether the slave owner was "good" or "bad" (a distinction of questionable use).
Rather, slaves worked within the limits of plantation power relations to extract from planters, and tenaciously defend, a body of "rights," of which their independent economic activities formed a significant part.
Slaves engaged planters in a struggle over the terms of their bondage. Planters held out inducements or, more commonly, resorted to coercion and punishment to extract labor. Slaves adopted strategies of resistance, which might aim at escape from, or overthrow of, the institution of slavery, but usually sought to improve plantation life through changes in working conditions and more control over their "private" lives.
Thus, independent economic activities by slaves, such as livestock rearing, show not planter benevolence, but the remarkable perseverance of slaves in transcending the oppression of their bondage and securing a measure of independence from it. These economic initiatives demonstrate the power of the slaves even over the commodity for which they were enslaved -- their labor.
The millions of men and women who lived and died as slaves showed resourcefulness, aspiration, dignity and courage -- humanity's most prized qualities, which even so coercive a system as slavery could not suppress. Slaves triumphed over the adversity of their bondage, as they proved in their art and music, religion, and family and community development, as well as in economic activities and material culture.
You are correct in concluding from Mr. Westmacott's observation that "every hog raised, or row of beans planted after working from dawn to dusk in the master's field, was a scrap of independence." But such independence was wrested by slaves, rather than conferred by the slave owners.
 
RODERICK A. MCDONALD
Assoc. Prof. of History, Rider College
Lawrenceville, N.J., Aug. 11, 1993

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAMAICA (77%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GEORGIA UNITED STATES (92%); JAMAICA (77%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: SLAVERY; BLACKS (IN US) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SLAVERY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FAMILY (70%); 

PERSON: MCDONALD, RODERICK A

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



556 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Pressure on Sudan Can't Do Any Good

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Secretary of State Warren Christopher has announced that the United States is adding the Sudan to the list of countries that support terrorism. This means the United States will end all foreign aid except for humanitarian reasons and veto all new proposals for international loans to the Sudan. The Sudan's poor human rights record and the Khartoum Government's continued war against Southern Sudan are despicable. A trade embargo is the next likely step, should the United States desire to put more pressure on the Sudan. 
 But a trade embargo would isolate the Sudan more from Western nations, turning the Sudan increasingly to Iran, China and Syria for economic, financial and military support.
Ceasing foreign aid, vetoing international loans and the trade sanctions would fuel hatred of Americans and add to misunderstandings between the West and the Islamic world.
Most important, a trade embargo is unlikely to cause the desired result -- Khartoum's severing its links with terrorist organizations. Those in power in the Sudan would hardly feel the effects of an American economic embargo. In third world countries it is always the poor, not those in power, who suffer most from economic sanctions. Sanctions cause shortages of food, medicine and other basics. Those with the lowest income suffer most as prices soar. The rural poor of the Sudan do not deserve to suffer for the decisions of a radical government they do not necessarily support.
Businessmen in the Sudan, who also generally do not support the regime, would suffer too. Those who can would probably leave the country and take their money with them. Capital flight, an exodus of Sudanese intellectuals and businessmen, and the denial of international finance would incalculably harm Sudanese development.
In the short term, trade sanctions would not convince the Sudanese Government to change its agenda or stop supporting terrorism. Adding the Sudan to the list of terrorist supporters and further action along a similar line is instead likely to cause an increase in terrorism. Undoubtedly, terrorists and their supporters must be punished, but trade sanctions in this case would be neither wise nor effective.
 
MINDY MILLER
Spring Hill, Fla., Aug. 18, 1993
 
The writer was a Fulbright scholar in African social and political development at Cambridge University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SUDAN SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); RELIGION (53%); DRUG SHORTAGES (51%); 

PERSON: MILLER, MINDY

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



557 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: Building Slump Is Seen as Brake On a Recovery

BYLINE: By JEANNE B. PINDER

 BODY:
Construction, normally an important engine in America's economic recoveries and a big creator of jobs, is continuing its slump and acting as a drag on the rebound, economists say.
In every other business cycle over the last 20 years, real estate construction -- especially commercial construction -- has helped lead the economy into recovery. But this time, the overbuilding of the 1980's and the subsequent crash in values have slammed the commercial real estate industry into its worst depression since the 1930's, sending total construction to its lowest level in years. And most real estate analysts see no immediate change ahead. 
 "If we had had a normal real estate market recovery, the growth in the economy would have been one-half to one percentage point higher each year," said Kenneth T. Rosen, a professor at the Center for Real Estate and Urban Economics at the University of California at Berkeley.
 
Commercial Overbuilding
 Construction typically accounts for about 5 percent of the gross domestic product, he said, but the entire building sector, including related industries that benefit from construction, probably accounts for 10 percent or 15 percent.
While the recession has hurt all American construction, the hardest-hit sector has been commercial office space, where the worst of the overbuilding took place in the 1980's. That market is not likely to see significant new construction until 1997 at the earliest, predicts David G. Shulman, a managing director at Salomon Brothers who earned a reputation as a seer for predicting the real estate crash. He estimates that it will take more than 11 years to absorb the nation's existing supply of office space.
Other segments of the construction market, though less badly hurt, are not showing their usual post-recession strength, either. Single-family housing starts, one of the nation's most closely watched indicators, have shown steady but moderate increases this year, and most economists expect the weakness in apartment construction, now at less than $9 billion in annual activity, to end soon.
Industrial construction spending is at a seven-year low, running at about $18 billion a year. And retail construction is at a 10-year low of about $22 billion a year, down from a 1985 high of about $35 billion.
But office-building construction -- which represented one third of all nonresidential building at the peak of the market -- has taken the deepest nose dive. At the top of the commercial construction boom in 1985, office construction spending was running at about $37 billion a year in constant 1987 dollars, according to statistics compiled by the Census Bureau. By the second quarter of this year, that had dipped to an annual rate of $13.1 billion, marking the 17th consecutive quarter of decline and the lowest level since 1979, with no turnaround in sight.
 
An Effect on Jobs
 The continued shrinkage in commercial construction has contributed to the nation's slow growth in jobs. Construction done under contract typically contributes about 10 percent of the jobs generated in the first year of a normal recovery, said David A. Wyss, research director at DRI/McGraw Hill, an economic consulting firm. "But in this recovery, in the first year, contract construction jobs declined 2 percent," he said.
The effects can be seen in the business of real estate developers like Mortimer B. Zuckerman, owner of the Boston Properties development concern. "We used to build well over a million feet a year, but we have not started a new building now in three years," he said. Furthermore, the company has not built a speculative building -- that is, one without a previously agreed-upon tenant -- for five years.
Prospects for a recovery in the office-building market remain grim for many reasons: the shakiness of the recovery, the huge amount of overbuilding that took place, the repercussions from a global economic slowdown, the general trend toward cutting corporate payrolls, the decline in military-related industries after the cold war's end, and changes in technology and demographics that are changing the American work force.
The world of real estate is littered with the carcasses of development concerns that went out of business as a result of the crash or have tried to pull back and focus on activities other than building. Perhaps the most spectacular meltdown was that of Olympia & York, the Canadian real estate giant whose Canadian and English branches went into bankruptcy, nearly pulling the United States branch with them. The Trammell Crow Company, a Dallas-based developer that was the nation's largest, has turned from an empire with $15 billion in assets into two entities: a property management and brokerage corporation and a separate property ownership wing with $5.5 billion in assets.
 
Looking Overseas
 Other developers have been nimbler. Jerry I. Speyer, president of Tishman Speyer Properties, said the crash in development opportunities in the United States has led his company to focus on overseas building. "At any one time in the 10 years from 1978 to 1988, we typically would have two to four buildings in planning, two to four in progress and two to four in completion," he said. "Today we basically have zero in that category of development or construction in the United States, but we have replicated that development situation outside of the United States."
As some developers have shriveled, the number of construction jobs in the United States has fallen from a peak of 5.1 million in 1988 to 4.5 million last year, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. But because of construction's ripple effect on the economy, other jobs have been lost, too -- in architecture and design firms, real estate brokerages, and companies that make products like cement, nails, wallpaper and furniture.
Beyond the construction industry, the slump has had other effects that are less visible. The real estate industry, which typically pays huge property-tax bills, is providing less revenue for governments. And because a house or building is often the biggest asset of a family or a small business, the decline in real estate values during the slump has hurt the economic flexibility and well-being of many Americans.
The pain is also being felt in big corporations and financial institutions. An estimated 25 percent to 40 percent of the assets on corporations' balance sheets are real estate assets. A huge part of the portfolios of banks, insurance companies and other investors comes from real estate, including everything from loans on office buildings to Wall Street securities made of real estate debts. Institutions that lent money for buildings have also been forced to acknowledge that the properties are worth much less than the mortgages issued at the peak of the boom.
 
Some New Money
 Of course, a real estate slump also offers opportunities. Businesses can find better office space at lower rents, which could allow small and start-up enterprises to eventually bring a kick to the economy. Housing is more affordable, especially with lower interest rates. Some investment money has started to come back into the real estate market, particularly in real estate investment trusts, lured by the promise of buying at the bottom of an industry.
Over all, however, many parts of the real estate industry look like a wasteland, with a few bright spots provided by bottom-fishers picking up bargains from distressed sellers.
Economists who look to renewed construction to boost the recovery see few signs of an immediate strong turnaround. Demand for space -- which will precede new building -- has been firming in the apartment market, and Mr. Shulman of Salomon Brothers said the retail real estate sector is showing "some signs of strength." But demand for industrial space is still very soft.
The picture is even grimmer for commercial space. Overbuilding has brought high vacancy rates: 26.7 percent of the office space in central Los Angeles is empty, according to the brokerage Cushman & Wakefield, as well as 22.2 percent in central Chicago, 17 percent in midtown Manhattan and 25.1 percent in Atlanta.
 
Fewer Workers, Less Space
 The office-space market also is lacking some of the ingredients that fueled a turnaround after the last big real estate recession, in the 1970's. At that time, strength in the office market was generated by growing demand for white-collar jobs, and the entry into the workplace of baby boomers, including vast numbers of women.
Today, corporations are cutting back not only on staff but also on space, sometimes in connection with new technologies that allow workers to be productive outside a traditional office. Job growth is running at about one-third the rate it showed in the last recovery.
The range of predictions on a recovery is wide.
In the view of Mr. Speyer of Tishman Speyer Properties: "The pendulum goes 180 degrees; it will come back. And I have every reason to believe that New York is leading the way. The activity in midtown Manhattan in the last six months shows serious evidence of some recovery."
But Mr. Shulman said the crash in real estate in general and construction in particular have yet to work their way through the economy. "I think we're in a very long and extended bottoming process, and unlike the real estate recession of the 1970's, we will not see a quick turnaround," he said. "This will certainly take some of the juice out of any recovery."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 1993, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Sunday with an article about the slump in the construction industry misstated the amounts of construction spending on office buildings. The figures were in billions of 1987 dollars, not trillions.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Slump in Office Construction," tracks construction spending on office buildings, 1973-2nd quarter 1993. (Source: Salomon Brothers) (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: REAL ESTATE CONSTRUCTION & FABRICATION CO (90%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REAL ESTATE; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; INDUSTRY PROFILES REAL ESTATE (93%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (79%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (74%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (74%); STATISTICS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: PINDER, JEANNE B

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



558 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2840 words

HEADLINE: SAUDI STABILITY HIT BY HEAVY SPENDING OVER LAST DECADE

BYLINE: By Jeff Gerth, Special to The New York Times; The following article is based on reporting by Stephen Engelberg, Jeff Gerth and Tim Weiner and was written by Mr. Gerth.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 21

 BODY:
Saudi Arabia, long seen as one of the world's wealthiest countries, has undermined its financial stability with a decade of unrestrained spending, huge military purchases and irregular banking practices.
The $121 billion in financial reserves amassed by Saudi Arabia less than a decade ago have almost vanished, drained by expenditures for weapons, social programs, foreign aid and the Gulf war. The spending has far outstripped the tens of billions of dollars earned annually from the largest oilfields in the world, which the Government owns. 
 Saudi Arabia began to feel the pinch in the mid-1980's, when oil prices fell sharply. Since 1983, the Saudis have racked up 10 consecutive years of budget deficits.
 
Worse Than U.S. Deficit?
 In 1992, according to the United States Department of Commerce, the deficit represented 9.2 percent of Saudi Arabia's gross domestic product, nearly twice the comparable figure in the United States. Other estimates, including those by the International Monetary Fund, are lower.
As the Saudis have forged ahead with ambitious plans to build a well-armed modern state, they have spent their national savings, and now are beginning to buy on credit.
"The Saudis have been drawing down reserves for 10 years," an American official said. "They're a mere shadow of their former selves."
Saudi officials in Riyadh and Washington declined to answer officially a series of requests for interviews and questions concerning the financial condition of the country submitted in writing to the Saudi Embassy. But some Saudi officials and businessmen agreed to discuss their country's financial problems provided they were not identified.
 
'Not a Scandal'
 With plenty of oil and relatively little foreign debt, the Saudis contend they have financial prospects far better than most developing countries. "It's not a poor country," said a Saudi official who spoke on condition of anonymity. "It's not a scandal that we're not paying cash anymore. We have an infrastructure that will take us way into the 21st century."
The weakened financial condition of Saudi Arabia is no secret to some in international financial circles. But the magnitude of the decline, and its potential political and economic consequences, have not yet grabbed the attention of the United States Congress or the highest levels of the executive branch.
Evidence of the Saudis' financial straits was supplied by Saudi businessmen and officials, American foreign-policy and financial officials, Saudi Government documents and independent analysts in the United States, Europe and the Middle East. Most spoke on the condition that they not be identified, citing the Saudi Government's sensitivity to the topic.
These are among the Saudis' troubles disclosed:
*Strains on the banking system, including billions of dollars in uncollected loans to members of the Saudi royal family, the indictment in the United States of the head of the largest Saudi bank and sudden demands from the Saudi Government to borrow money. Saudi banks took on a threefold increase of Government debt from 1989 to mid-1992.
*Requests for billions of dollars in loans and credit guarantees from the West.
*Anxiety among international institutions, including the Bank of England and the International Monetary Fund. The staff of the I.M.F., in a secret report in 1992 on the Saudi economy, expressed new concern about the country's chronic budget deficits, which it said were fueled last year by military spending and a reluctance to trim social programs.
These developments have profound implications for the United States and the Middle East.
Saudi Arabia is America's largest supplier of oil, closest Arab ally and best customer for weapons exports. Washington relies on Riyadh for a host of favors, from discreet cajoling of its Arab neighbors to covert financing of Central Intelligence Agency operations. Saudi Arabia has long played a pivotal role in moderating increases in oil prices by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
Until now, the Saudis have used their riches to buy security at home and abroad. The estimated 10 million citizens of Saudi Arabia pay virtually no taxes and enjoy an elaborate array of benefits, from education to health care.
In the region, the Saudis have spent tens of billions of dollars to buy off potential enemies, from Iraq to Jordan to the Palestine Liberation Organization. The Saudi ruler, King Fahd, keeps rivalries in check by allowing the kingdom's 4,000 princes easy access to the banking system, Government subsidies and secret commissions on weapons deals, according to American and Saudi officials and businessmen.
In part because of a cash shortage in Saudi Arabia, its lavish aid to foreign countries has been trimmed, the officials said. Few new orders are likely for the ailing American arms industry. But while the Saudis have postponed one major deal, the country remains committed to buying nearly all of the $30 billion of weapons already under contract.
American officials agreed that years of stagnant oil prices and an immense military buildup had brought Saudi Arabia to a crossroads. But officials in Washington said they remained confident that the ruling monarchy had the resilience and ingenuity to make the tough choices that were unimagined in the boom years.
Saudi officials have in recent months informed their American counterparts of a fundamental decision: They intend to put the purchases of weapons first, and cut Saudi citizens' subsidies where necessary. But independent analysts, including the I.M.F. officials, have raised questions about whether the Saudis had the political will for this sort of austerity.
The most recent I.M.F. staff report on Saudi Arabia noted that the Saudis intended to continue payments to their neighbors in the Middle East.
While the report commended the Saudis for planning to make budget cuts, it said the cuts would not stop the Saudis' trade and budget deficits from deepening by billions of dollars over the next five years.
"There's a whole lot of things they can do that will let them slide for the next two to three years, but their underlying structural problems are enormous," said Patrick L. Clawson, a senior fellow at the National Defense University and former I.M.F. economist. "Saudi Arabia is now our strategic ally. If your strategic ally has structural economic problems, you have to worry.
"Combine that with the fact that your ally is an absolutist monarchy that has moved very slowly to democratization of a society in which political opposition is expressed in a way that can easily turn into anti-Westernism, you really have to worry."
 
The Economy
After the Oil Boom, An Economic Bust
 Saudi Arabia has a one-crop economy that underwrites a welfare state. The price of that crop, oil, collapsed in the 1980's, and today stands significantly lower than in the boom years.
Though the Government has slowed some spending, revenues have never kept up. "They are spending and living as a country the same as they did in the 1970's," said an American who works for a leading Saudi business. "They haven't adapted to the sea change in the marketplace."
Saudi Arabia's treasury began to reap the benefits from the pools of oil first discovered in the 1930's when price increases were imposed by OPEC after the 1973 Arab-Israeli war. The Saudis used the flood of cash to transform their country from a tribal state into a modern monarchy. They installed telephones, built highways and carved out seaports. Beginning in 1980, the Government poured money into education, health care and social services, Saudi budget documents show.
Then came the world oil glut, and a drastic drop in prices for the source of three-quarters of the Government's revenue. The value of the dollar, the currency used for oil sales, also dropped.
 
A Decade of Deficits
 In the 1980's, the fiscal policies of the Saudis began to resemble those of the United States. A decade of deficits began in 1983 with a huge military buildup. The rulers of Saudi Arabia refused to cut entitlement programs and continued to pay off potential adversaries, including more than $20 billion in payments and loans to Iraq. Oil revenues remained far less than the country was spending. Annual budget deficits ranged from $4 billion to $18 billion, according to I.M.F. estimates.
Saudi Arabia also ran huge trade deficits. From 1983 to 1991, its imports of goods and services exceeded the value of its exports, primarily oil, by $120 billion, according to the I.M.F.
No goal was too costly. Saudi officials decided to turn deserts into wheat fields using price supports and water drained from ancient aquifers. Saudi Arabia is now the sixth-largest exporter of wheat in the world, according to Commerce Department statistics. Leading members of the royal family are the principal beneficiaries of the subsidies, according to a Saudi official.
"Subsidizing wheat is crazy for the Saudis," said William Quandt, a former National Security Council official who has studied Saudi Arabia for 20 years. "But, of course, a lot of Saudis have made money on this."
 
The Gulf War
A Hefty Price Tag Adds to the Burden
 The gulf war tightened the financial pressures on Saudi Arabia. President George Bush sent half a million Americans to defend the kingdom and push Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait, but insisted that the Saudis bear the brunt of the financial burden.
The war cost the Saudis $55 billion, according to a 1991 study by the International Monetary Fund. Of that, $12.8 billion was paid directly to the United States. Most American officials agreed with the assertion by the Saudis that the high cost of the war -- equal to the entire annual budget of Saudi Arabia -- was responsible for most of the country's current difficulties.
But the I.M.F. studies questioned that argument. Soon after the United Nations banned the sale of Iraqi crude oil, Saudi Arabia's oil output jumped to 8 million barrels day from 5.5 million, the studies said. That extra oil was worth an additional $24 billion in revenue for the Saudis in 1991, and at least the same amount in later years.
As a result, industry analysts said, the ban on Iraqi oil has allowed Saudi Arabia to recover most, if not all, of the costs of the war.
Deficit spending continues. Saudi Arabia announced this year that it would spend $7.4 billion more than it would take in. The Government said it planned to establish 6 new colleges, 800 new schools, 500 health care clinics and 500,000 telephone lines. The largest portion of the $52 billion budget, $16 billion, was set aside for defense and security.
 
The Remedies
Postponing a Saudi Day of Reckoning
 Saudi Arabia has used an array of strategies to postpone the day of reckoning, according to Government officials and private analysts.
The Saudis began by drawing on the huge dollar reserves built up when oil prices were high.
According to official Saudi statistics, the foreign assets and currency reserves of the central bank fell to $51 billion at the end of last year from $121 billion in 1984.
But that lower figure was overstated, private analysts and Saudi officials said. It included as much as $20 billion in loans to Iraq that are unlikely to be collected. Much of the rest is unavailable to the Saudis, the I.M.F. said, because it must be set aside to back the Saudi currency and to finance trade deals. One Saudi official estimated that his country's liquid reserves -- money that can be readily tapped -- were as low as $7 billion.
 
Resistance from Lenders
 As reserves dropped in the late 1980's, Saudis went to international banks for loans -- and met with some reluctance, despite their billions of barrels of unpumped oil.
The Morgan Guaranty Trust Company in New York put together the first big international line of credit for the Saudis in 1991, to help meet a demand from Congress for quick payment of the bills from the Gulf war. But British banks refused to participate.
According to American and Saudi officials, the British central bank, the Bank of England, has expressed strong concerns about the creditworthiness of Saudi Arabia.
A Saudi official disagreed with the bank's view, but said it had hurt his country because other central banks assumed it was accurate.
 
Guarantees Needed
 American officials and bankers estimated that Saudi Arabia would need to borrow $3 billion to $10 billion this year. International banks are unlikely to lend these amounts unless European or American governments guaranteed that the money would be repaid. Similarly, it is clear to American and European airplane companies angling for a $6 billion contract with the Saudi national airline that the deal will require government-guaranteed financing.
Like other developing countries, Saudi Arabia needs a steady flow of dollars to finance trade deficits and movements of capital out of the country by wealthy citizens.
This points up an important difference between Riyadh and Washington. While both countries are running budget and trade deficits, the United States can easily sell its bonds, in dollars, around the world. Saudi Arabia cannot.
Imposing taxes would ease the budgetary burden. "But then," Mr. Quandt, the former National Security Council official, said, "people might get around to asking for representation in exchange."
 
The Banks
Holes in a System Concern the U.S.
 American officials wring their hands over the financial statistics of Saudi Arabia because no one believes all the numbers the Saudis publish. But what worries them most is the country's secretive banking system.
Buried deep in the most recent annual report of the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency, the country's central bank, is a statistic that speaks volumes: From 1989 to mid-1992, the Government's debt to Saudi banks more than tripled. It rose to $15.1 billion from $4 billion -- to 32 percent of all bank deposits from less that 10 percent. A Saudi banker estimated that the total Government debt held by the banks was now $20 billion -- or 40 percent of deposits -- roughly twice the percentage of the Government debt owned by American banks.
Saudi bankers and American officials said some of the banks were resisting demands by the Government to take on further Government debt, but appeared to have little choice.
Some American officials said they believed that Saudi Arabia's published financial statements concealed a grimmer story. They said Saudi banks held a portfolio of bad loans and investments gone sour that could, in relative terms, rival the savings and loan crisis in this country.
 
Fear of Unpaid Loans
 The fear among some American officials stems in part from the billions of dollars in unpaid loans to members of the royal family from the National Commercial Bank, the largest private lending institution in Saudi Arabia. The unpaid loans were described by a number of Government and business officials in the United States and Saudi Arabia.
One American official called the unpaid loans "the biggest black hole in the Saudi economy." Another official noted, however, that he had been assured that the royal family would resolve the matter because it had the "means and the incentive."
A Saudi official said the banking system had ample liquidity but acknowledged there were problems in the National Commercial Bank's relationship with the royal family.
The National Commercial Bank has not issued an audited financial statement in three years. The bank's last audited statement, dated May 15, 1990, disclosed that "certain loans and advances granted to clients and partners" were in violation of Saudi banking law.
 
A B.C.C.I. Connection
 The bank's offices in New York and London were closed last year after criminal fraud charges were brought against its former chief executive.
The charges stemmed from the collapse of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International. Some powerful Saudis were among the best customers of the Arab-owned B.C.C.I.
The National Commercial Bank is fighting a $10 billion claim brought by the liquidators of B.C.C.I. The former chief executive of the Saudi bank is also contesting the criminal charges.
Michael Callen, the senior adviser to the chairman of the bank, said the bank would not discuss its customers, but said "the numbers being tossed around for nonperforming loans, like $10 billion, are ridiculous and that will be crystal clear when the audited statements come out," which he said would be no later than September.
A Saudi banker said the loans to the royal family had put Saudi officials in a difficult position, in which they must serve as professional bank regulators yet respect the wishes of an absolute monarch.
The royal family believes "they own the country," he said, adding: "They took it by force of the sword. When the King says, 'Give me a loan,' they believe they're taking their money back."
Next: The changing relationship between Washington and Riyadh.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 27, 1993, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, a picture last Sunday with an article about the Saudi Arabian economy was printed in mirror image. The automobile in front of the oil refinery actually faced the left.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the 1980's, Saudi officials decided to turn deserts into wheat fields like the Qassim agricultural region. The country is now the sixth-largest exporter of wheat in the world, according to Commerce Department statistics. Leading members of the royal family are the beneficiaries of the subsidies. (Youssef M. Ibrahim/The New York Times); After a decade of excessive spending, huge military purchases and irregular banking practices, Saudi Arabia has undermined its financial stability. A drop in the price of oil, which represents three-quarters of the Government's revenue has contributed to the country's problems. (Laurent Van Der Stockt/Gamma Liaison)
 
Graphs: "Hemorrhaging Wealth," track Saudi Arabia's budget deficit, 1984-1996* (*1993-1996 are projections); Saudi Arabia's current account deficit, 1981-1992 (1992, estimated range) (Sources: Saudi Government agencies; International Monetary Fund; Commerce Department); "Where Oil Casts a Long Shadow," track oil prices, 1972-1992; merchandise exports adjusted for inflation and exchange rates, 1982-1992 (Source: Petroleum Finance Company) (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); 

CITY: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAUDI ARABIA SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PERSIAN GULF WAR; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; BANKS AND BANKING ; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TRENDS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); INDICTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: ENGELBERG, STEPHEN; GERTH, JEFF; WEINER, TIM MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



559 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Why Do You Do the Things You Do?

BYLINE: By Anthony Gottlieb; Anthony Gottlieb is on the editorial staff of The Economist. He is working on a history of Western philosophy.

 BODY:

THE NATURE OF RATIONALITY
By Robert Nozick.
226 pp. Princeton, N.J.:
Princeton University Press. $19.95. 
 ROBERT NOZICK, the Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University, always attacks his problems in a disconcertingly original way. In 1969 he published a discussion of a bizarre imaginary dilemma, thought up by a scientist at the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory in California but unpublished until then, which opened up a new path for research in decision theory (the theory that tries to work out principles for calculating the desirability of alternative courses of action). Five years later, his first book, "Anarchy, State, and Utopia," was widely acclaimed as a tour de force in political thought. Using a range of techniques, from applications of economics to colorful puzzles about men with death rays, it was an extended argument for a near-anarchist "minimal" state. In 1981 came "Philosophical Explanations," a bloated masterpiece groaning with novel suggestions for coping with several of the main topics of academic philosophy. And in 1989, in "The Examined Life," he took on nothing less than the meaning of life, a subject that academic philosophers tended to steer clear of -- and still do, despite his best efforts.
From Mr. Nozick you always expect fireworks, even if some of them go off in their box. His questions, hints, counterarguments and suggestions come so thick and fast that it is next to impossible to appreciate all of them. Start pondering a sentence and you will find yourself led away prematurely by a parenthetical question; think about the question and you will be dragged into a discursive footnote; from the bowels of the footnote, another parenthetical query will leap out at you. If you escape back to the main argument with your concentration intact (unlikely, after a while), the whole wearing business just starts over again. Yet it is worth the effort -- certainly for regular readers of philosophy, and often for others.
"The Nature of Rationality," Mr. Nozick's latest book, and his most narrowly focused one, happily and untypically manages to concentrate on one topic. One topic, but not just one discipline. The theory of rationality touches many areas of probability: economics, decision theory, anthropology, psychology, biology and computer science. Mr. Nozick pokes into many of them. His learning is deep enough to stop such forays from degenerating into the farces of multidisciplinary cross-dressing that they can easily become in lesser hands.
The questions he addresses are fundamental in the true philosophical sense: Why exactly should we want to act and believe rationally? Why should we formulate principles of action and try to stick to them? The questions are not moral but explicatory. He is not out to argue that unprincipled or irrational behavior is immoral; rather, he invites us to consider what we are trying to do, and what the justification for such behavior is. He argues, plausibly, that "principles . . . provide one means to control and reshape our desires." Among his other main philosophical questions are: What is the connection between rational belief and rational action? And what is the relevance of the fact that rationality is something that has evolved?
Mr. Nozick throws a meaty bone to economists and the many other social scientists who work with decision theory. He proposes several modifications of orthodox accounts that will be found controversial and stimulating. He argues, for example, that a phenomenon he calls "symbolic utility" needs to be written into decision theory. This amounts to a type of connection between an action and its consequences that concerns not the act's propensity to bring these consequences about, but the way in which the act is regarded as representing the valued project of which the action is a component. His characterization of symbolic utility is a little vague, but it won't be by the time the academics have finished with it. This discussion, and much else in the book, are sure to attract a great deal of interest.
THIS part of the book is not accessible. It is not simply difficult; it is very difficult. The browser will find a few equations and other formulas, and will perhaps fear that he or she will not be able to understand them. But, in fact, the equations are the easy part and often come as welcome relief. Too much of the intricate, argumentative prose has too few concrete examples and illustrations to make it anything less than unnecessarily exhausting. Mr. Nozick writes, "I do not want the topic of rationality to be taken away from the general reader." But he has not tried as hard as he might have done to prevent it from becoming so.
Fortunately, there is more than enough here of genuine general interest. The tentative outline of an overall theory of rationality that he proposes to deal with what might be called "Hume's Horror" raises as many questions as it is designed to resolve, but that comes with the territory, and it is a start. (David Hume famously argued that "it is not contrary to reason to prefer the destruction of the whole world to the scratching of my finger.") Mr. Nozick's discussion of the evolutionary significance of rationality is fascinating, particularly the suggestion that some philosophical problems remain unsolved because the mind did not develop to deal with such puzzles. This treatment closes with a reflection that is salutary for those who are oddly distressed by biological intrusions into the human mind and its rational productions: "When the very loftiest human creations are seen to derive from humble origins and functions, what needs revision is not our esteem for these creations but our notion of nobility."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: NATURE OF RATIONALITY, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: UTOPIA SA (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS PHILOSOPHY (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); 

PERSON: GOTTLIEB, ANTHONY; NOZICK, ROBERT (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



560 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Two Myths About Mexico

BYLINE: By Harley Shaiken; Harley Shaiken, a visiting professor at the University of California at Berkeley, has written two books on Mexican industry.

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif.

 BODY:
Will the North American Free Trade Agreement unleash economic growth throughout the Americas, as proponents promise, improving environmental and labor standards in the process? Or will it undermine U.S. jobs and wages, as critics charge?
Much of the debate is based on two myths: that Mexico's export sector is limited to low-tech and low-productivity operations and that world-class wages in Mexico will automatically follow world-class productivity. 
 While average productivity is far lower than in the U.S., a new wave of export plants in industries from cars to electronics use advanced technologies and match or exceed U.S. quality and productivity levels. The Ford Escorts produced in Hermosillo, all exported north, ranked fifth in quality out of 46 assembly plants in North America last year, surpassing five Japanese-owned plants.
This quality and productivity, however, is combined with third-world wages. Ford workers in Mexico earn $2.38 an hour compared with $17.50 an hour for workers producing the same model near Detroit. Not only won't Mexican workers be buying many Escorts at these wages, but U.S. consumers will continue to pay the same price wherever the car is produced.
Many say Mexico's market reforms will cause wages to rise. In fact, reform hasn't come to Mexico's controlled labor markets. The Government holds down wages to attract investment, labor rights are truncated and employers often conspire to set wages. As a result, rising productivity doesn't translate into better wages. Although productivity rose by 41 percent between 1980 and 1992, the wages and benefits of a Mexican manufacturing worker last year were only 68 percent of what they were in 1980, a low level to start with. Average compensation totaled $2.35 an hour last year, one-seventh of U.S. earnings.
Proponents of Nafta argue that the increased demand for industrial workers alone will raise wages. Why then hasn't this taken place in the border assembly plants -- maquiladoras -- where employment rose from 131,000 in 1981 to 505,000 in 1992? Instead, wages averaged about $1.15 an hour last year, lower than 1981 levels.
The flip side of low wages is low purchasing power. In Tijuana, the average export plant worker must labor over an hour for a half-gallon of milk and about four hours for a pound of meat, hardly the makings of a robust market.
If artificially depressed wages prevent Mexican workers from entering the middle class, in an increasingly integrated economy, U.S. workers may be knocked out of the middle class. New Mexican plants achieving U.S. productivity levels at one-seventh the wages offer a powerful incentive for many U.S. firms to relocate production or lower their labor costs by threatening to move or both.
Although Trade Representative Mickey Kantor admits that "for decades, Mexico has looked the other way when companies polluted or violated the most basic of worker rights," the side agreements announced the other day provide little protection. The labor accord excludes industrial relations issues -- violations of the right to strike or organize independent unions -- from the possibility of fines or sanctions.
Representative Richard Gephardt criticizes the side agreements as inadequate. This position seeks to expand trade by insuring that people on both sides of the border can buy what they produce. Stronger labor and environmental protections will not artificially raise Mexican wages but will insure that these wages do not remain artificially depressed, undermining U.S. wages and purchasing power.
Expanded trade offers considerable promise for the U.S. and Mexico. A pact that guarantees investment but ignores jobs, incomes and the environment won't realize that promise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; TREATIES; WAGES AND SALARIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR EMERGING MARKETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSPIRACY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); TRENDS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RELOCATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: SHAIKEN, HARLEY

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



561 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 10; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1942 words

HEADLINE: Arms Industry Yields to Show Business

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
JOHN C. MARKOWICZ was walking through his company's 7,000-square-foot sound stage in Waterford recently explaining how Sonalysts Inc. had achieved the quietest studios in the nation by employing the same technology it used to make American submarines the quietest in the world. But it took a construction crew to force home his point.
As Mr. Markowicz opened a dividing door and stepped into a second sound stage, the din of hammers and drills filled the air. Six men were working on a sliding overhead door, but so perfectly are the studios insulated for sound that there had been no hint of the work in the next room. That kind of quiet is expected to give the company an advantage in attracting film productions because producers will not have to worry about errant noise ruining a "take." 
 Sonalysts Studios, the company's entertainment division, has just opened a 24,000-square-foot film installation in a wooded area off Interstate 95, with sound stages, high-technology film editing equipment, production crew quarters and a 21-seat theater where rushes from a day's shoot can be reviewed.
"That way, you can shoot it, edit it, and go back down there and shoot it again if you don't like the way it came out," said Michael Watt, Sonalysts vice president for marketing. "It's a one-stop film-production facility."
The company has animation capability, a trades building where sets can be constructed, a green room for actors to rest in between shoots and two stars' dressing rooms, identical in size and fixtures so there can be no quibbling over quarters.
 
A Composer on the Staff
 The company's comprehensive approach to movie making can be seen in the two audio suites. Not only does Sonalysts have state-of-the-art music recording, mixing and editing capabilities, it has a composer on the staff.
"To have someone who can sit down and write a piece, score it, and then play the instruments for it, gives us an edge over the places that just do engineering," Mr. Watt said.
And the company already has a reputation in the industry, having won an Oscar two years ago for the sound effects in the movie "The Hunt for Red October."
Mr. Markowicz said film makers could find all Sonalysts' facilities in New York, but it might mean shooting in one location, then driving cross town to edit and another trip to view the rushes. "Every time you have to move from one site to another, your costs go up," he said. "We hope the advantage of being able to do it all in one location is going to attract producers."
The company is already producing live and animated commercials, training films, and other projects for media clients like CBS, Fox Network and the Public Broadcasting System as well as commercial contracts for Loctite, Kaman Corporation, ESPN and the New England Sports Network.
Mr. Markowicz gave a clue to one prospective film project recently when he had "When You Wish Upon a Star" played over the loudspeaker at the studio opening.
The opening showed Mr. Markowicz just how much the studio had captured the imagination of the region. He originally hoped to have 600 people at the opening, but based on early returns from the invitations the estimate climbed to 800, then 1,200. The night of the opening, 2,700 people showed up, including many people in the movie industry.
Mr. Markowicz predicted that the 27-employee, $2 million film division would double over the next 12 to 18 months, and double again over the following 12 to 18 months. Beyond that, he declines to predict where it might go.
 
Diversification Wins Praise
 "Five years ago, I couldn't envision we would be opening this studio," Mr. Markowicz said. "It wasn't even a dream. Don't ask me what the company's going to be doing five years from now.
"We are the new kids on the block in this industry, but we can offer New England as a backdrop," Mr. Markowicz said. "We're going to learn the business. We're not going out next week and produce films. But that will come."
Sonalysts Studios is widely praised as an example of the kind of defense diversification Connecticut must achieve if it is to rebound economically. Sonalysts was founded in 1973 as a naval research and development company. Even today, 65 to 70 percent of its $36.5 million revenues come from the Defense Department, but that percentage is dropping by 1 or 2 percentage points a year as revenues increase 15 or 20 percent.
Among its successful spinoffs have been Vita, a computerized badging system in use at Cornell University, the Chicago Transit Authority and a number of companies. Vita grew out of security work done for the Navy. So did the nuclear consulting division, which now has two dozen people working with the Department of Energy and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to improve safety procedures and training at Russian nuclear plants.
The company has had some flops. It started a second mortgage company in the 1970's that wrote a couple of mortgages before rates soared to 18 percent and the industry foundered. Its business software spinoff won only a couple of contracts before it quietly folded back into the main company, and a football video game developed by Sonalysts for the consumer market never caught on.
 
Help for Other Companies
 Still, the company has done well enough that the state Department of Economic Development recently awarded it a $75,000 contract to help other defense companies diversify.
"You can't fault a company for trying and failing, even failing repeatedly," said a spokesman for the department, Joseph Cohen. "Defense diversification is a time-consuming, dollar-consuming process that is going to be rife with failure."
Defense companies have spent decades in a situation where quality, not cost, is the primary motivation, in established niches where few companies had their expertise. As they turn to consumer products, the emphasis is on price, and there are a lot of competitors.
"This particular company is very good at controlling costs, and that's going to be a big selling point in this latest project they've undertaken," Mr. Cohen said.
That latest project, the film studio off Interstate 95, is a $4 million gamble for the company, but one most people seem to think will pay off. State officials said the Sonalysts studios give Connecticut the potential to become a major movie-making state.
"I don't think 'thrilled' would be overstating our position," said Edward D. Dombroskas, executive director of the Connecticut Division on Tourism, which includes the State Film Commission. "The addition of Sonalysts is a quantum leap for Connecticut's film-making capabilities, giving us all the modern requirements for film production. It's an opportunity for Connecticut to really start to attract film producers."
Locally, a company called Exclusive Connections has already organized to provide transportation, lodging and catering for production crews that might use the Sonalysts studios. And southeastern Connecticut attractions are registering with the Film Commission so movie makers will know what is available.
 
'A Great Future' Predicted
 A spokeswoman for the Mystic Seaport Museum, Elizabeth A. Gwillim, said some of the museum's boats and staff would be in Martin Scorcese's new film, "Age of Innocence," and Mystic Seaport was the boat wrangler -- it obtained the boats -- for Billy Joel's new music video, shot on the Connecticut River. Some fashion layouts and commercials have been filmed at the museum.
"But we've never really looked at the question," Ms. Gwillim said. "If Columbia Pictures showed up here and wanted the entire facility for four days of shooting, would we do it? With Sonalysts in the area, it's opened up the discussion. That could happen, and we want to be ready for it.
"We plan on being very much in a position to cooperate with Sonalysts," Ms. Gwillim said. "We think there's a great future there."
The town has also cooperated with the Sonalysts studio. First Selectman Thomas A. Sheridan said he had guaranteed the company a 24-hour response on any permits required to make a movie.
"That's supposedly a big thing in the movie world," Mr. Sheridan said. "If they want to close a road or put snow down, and you've got a crew standing around waiting, it costs a lot of money for every delay."
 
Town Educates Itself
 He said he had gone to New York City and Wilmington, N.C., to talk to officials in those cities about what might be necessary to accommodate Sonalysts.
"We're educating ourselves as quickly as we can," Mr. Sheridan said. "If they sign a $50 million contract, we want to be ready to respond immediately, and the biggest thing we can do is not hold them up."
He said the town did not bend over backward for every industry, but movie making was clean, relatively innocuous and lucrative. "The financial ripple effect of a feature film to a community is just spectacular," Mr. Sheridan said.
Sonalysts' studio is actually four buildings under a single roof, each isolated from the others by 18 inches of concrete, several layers of gypsum board and six inches of sound insulation. To make it as quiet as possible, the designers incorporated some of the submarine technology Sonalysts developed or refined.
The motors that drive some of the mechanical systems in the building, for instance, are all mounted on large springs, on a concrete pad separate from the main building. The more those sources of vibration are isolated, the less chance they will be heard. The air-conditioning ducts are 36 to 40 inches in diameter, capable of pushing huge quantities of air very slowly and whisper quiet, so the blowing sound typical of air-conditioners is never heard.
A result is a decibel rating of NC15, which is about 64 times lower than NC21, the level that people can hear, Mr. Watt said. "The isolation is so perfect you could be working in one with pneumatic tools and be shooting a quiet love scene in the next studio," he said.
Mr. Watt said the company had also assembled the expertise it needs to attract large productions. Four full-time animators give the company the second largest amount of animating power in New England, behind a company in Sturbridge, Mass., that did the special effects for the movie "2001: A Space Odyssey."
 
Defense Work Still Sought
 The company still competes fiercely for defense contracts, and Mr. Markowicz was one of the loudest voices in the efforts to save the Naval Underwater Warfare Center in New London and the Naval Submarine Base in Groton from closing.
"The first law of diversification is, hold on to what you've got," Mr. Markowicz said. "If you don't have the resources going into it, you can't make the next step. If you've lost the people and the money, you're just not going to make it."
In fact, the company has used its diversification spinoffs to win new military contracts. It is in discussions now with Armed Forces Radio and Television about productions that might be done in the new studios.
On the third Saturday of every month, employees get together to talk about projects. The meetings are well attended because each employee has a direct interest in the company through an employee stock-option trust, and more than 125 employees have bought their own shares outright.
"The feeling is, 'We're all in this canoe together, so I'd better grab a paddle,' " Mr. Markowicz said. "I like to tell people they're a part owner, whether they buy it directly or own it through the trust, so shut out the lights when you leave -- it's our electric bill. There's a big difference between being an owner and being a renter. There's a tremendous team spirit."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Guests at the recent opening of Sonalysts Inc. viewing videos in the 24-track sound studio, above, and a life-size cut-out, below, of Humphrey Bogart stationed in a sound studio. (Photographs by Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SONALYSTS INC

ORGANIZATION: SONALYSTS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; NOISE; SUBMARINES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); FILM (88%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); ANIMATION (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); MUSIC (63%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



562 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: Business Border War Heats Up

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
THE Westchester Industrial Development Agency's latest radio ads are pitching the county's $25 million budget surplus, its hold-the-line policy on taxes and its green parks, scenic shorelines and "unsurpassed quality of life."
"Hello and welcome to another edition of the Westchester Business Challenge," the ads say. "If you're ready, here's today's question: Why is Westchester a great business location?" 
 Unfortunately, the county's top-rated schools, its low crime rate and the many other attributes touted in recent advertisements by the development agency, whose members are appointed by the County Executive, were not enough to lure a company like the Witco Corporation, a Manhattan-based manufacturer employing 8,400 workers and looking to relocate.
Wined and dined in Connecticut by "everyone from the Governor down to aides" -- and offered an $8 million state grant to offset moving expenses -- Witco announced in June that it was moving 800 workers to Fairfield County, in a corporate park that is a stone's throw from the Westchester border, said Carl R. Soderlind, a senior vice president for the company.
"It's not that Westchester didn't do a good job wooing us," Mr. Soderlind said. "It's just that Connecticut did better."
Also, Trans World Airlines, now headquartered in Mount Kisco, announced this month that St. Louis had offered the carrier a deal worth $70 million to move its administrative offices and as many as 200 workers there as part of a bankruptcy reorganization plan. The airline is selling some of its assets, like gates and baggage systems, to the St. Louis Airport Authority and leasing them back.
"The city of St. Louis went above and beyond in their efforts to bring us home to the Midwest," William R. Howard, T.W.A.'s chairman and chief executive officer, said when the deal was announced.
Economic development officials and business leaders in Westchester, who are frustrated in their efforts to retain companies and attract new businesses, have placed at least part of the blame for losses like Witco, T.W.A., Mastercard and other companies on what they consider antiquated business policies at the state level.
 
'We End Up Begging'
 "Places like Connecticut see incentive packages as an investment in its future," said Lawrence E. Dwyer Jr., president of the 800-member Westchester County Association. "New York only sees it as an expense.
"The problem is that Connecticut is out there aggressively pursuing new business, and in New York, there is a lack of organization and a lot of pointing of fingers. So we end up begging for companies, but we don't have a lot of clout behind us, even though we know that the county is a wonderful place to be."
Jeffrey W. Schneider, a spokesman for the state's Office of Economic Development, agreed that there were "few places on earth that can compete" with the Hudson Valley region, but he said it did not make economic sense to pay high premiums for new jobs brought into the state.
"It's not the way we do business," he said, explaining that St. Louis, in offering T.W.A. $70 million for 200 jobs, was in essence paying "$350,000 a job, if you do the math."
"It would impinge on our ability to do economic development in general if we spent too many dollars in one place," Mr. Schneider said.
Alan C. Sullivan, Executive Deputy Commissioner for the State Department of Economic Development, accused states like Connecticut and New Jersey of "going crazy in bidding wars that escalate to an unrealistic degree."
"We compete," he said, "but New York is not about to bankroll some company. Witco won the sweepstakes, but how can you justify something like that to taxpayers?"
 
News Not All Bad
 Meanwhile, the losses for Westchester have added up, and the county's vacancy rate for commercial properties -- a key indicator of economic activity -- was 27.1 percent in June, up from 21.9 percent the same time last year, according to a mid-year report by the Rostenberg-Doern Company, a corporate real-estate firm with offices in Purchase and Stamford. Downtown White Plains was especially hard hit with a vacancy rate of 34.9 percent, the report said.
By contrast, Fairfield County's vacancy rate dropped to 23 percent in June, from 25.4 percent a year ago. The Rostenberg-Doern report also pointed out that in addition to Witco's decision to move to Connecticut, Dun & Bradstreet announced that it was moving to Fairfield County from Manhattan.
Dun & Bradstreet, a financial information company, received a $7.2 million grant from Connecticut to move its headquarters staff of 300 people to Wilton from midtown Manhattan.
The news, however, was not all bad for Westchester, said County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke, who announced this month that 34 new businesses have moved, opened a branch or started a business here during the first half of the year -- generating about 500 new jobs and $3.4 million in new business leases over the course of the year.
"You win some and you lose some in this minuet we all do to court companies," Mr. O'Rourke said. "What we can't do is compete with the footlong laundry list of things that Connecticut is willing to give to a company."
A report released by Mr. O'Rourke's Office of Commerce and Economic Development also found that some large retail companies -- Tops Appliance City, T. J. Maxx, Pace Warehouse, World of Interior Design and Bradlees -- have opened in Westchester this year, generating an additional 700 new jobs.
 
Bigger Not Necessarily Better
 According to the report, an economic analysis for the first half of 1993, two-thirds of the new firms were in the fields of accounting, computer services, telecommunications, advertising, marketing, financial services and consulting.
County officials have recently begun to chart a different course for the future, depending less on the large corporations for Westchester's economic viability, explained Margaret S. Soter, Director of Commerce and Economic Development for the county.
"What we're trying to do now is attract a variety of small- and medium-sized companies," Ms. Soter said. "It's healthier, because they don't send the big tremors through the local economy when they downsize, the way an I.B.M. or a Reader's Digest does."
Rostenberg-Doern's report called the continuing consolidation of I.B.M.'s operations "devastating" for Westchester. The computer company -- which announced that it would cut 500 jobs in the county this year -- plans to vacate 320,000 square feet of office space in White Plains, 425,000 square feet in Purchase and at least 171,000 square feet in Tarrytown.
 
'More Wins Than Losses'
 Westchester's job base is 376,000, down 8,200 from a year ago, according to statistics from the State Labor Department. Half of the job losses were in manufacturing, which includes the I.B.M. jobs.
"We're saying to the smaller firms, 'Come, grow and create jobs here,' " Ms. Soter said. "In the long run, this will be a more stabilizing influence for the county."
George W. Delaney, president of the Westchester Business Partnership, an association of 36 leaders from the public and private sectors, said that despite some setbacks the county had seen "far more wins than losses."
"The bottom line," Mr. Delaney said, "is that Westchester, with its AAA bond rating, is still in better shape than most counties in the nation."
He defended state economic policies by pointing to a recent offer of $2.5 million in low-interest loans from a new state fund to entice the Ciba Corporation to remain in Westchester.
Ciba, a developer and manufacturer of pharmaceuticals, some plastic materials and vision-care products, wants to sell 12 buildings that it owns on 60 acres in Ardsley. It is considering four sites in Westchester and one in Connecticut. Eric S. Jackson, a spokesman for Ciba, said that both states were actively pursuing the company.
 
Way Behind the Times
 In contrast to Mr. Delaney's views, most county officials and economic leaders who were interviewed said state policies were hampering the county's ability to do business. They criticized the state for not having an up-to-date brochure describing New York's attributes. And they said New York's tax structure, its costly medical plans and workers' compensation packages and its insistence on cumbersome environmental-review processes all worked against attracting and retaining businesses.
Others like the County Executive question the state's focus on manufacturing rather than service industries saying that such an approach was behind the times and too narrow in scope.
But Mr. Sullivan, of the Department of Economic Development, defended that policy. "We have a certain amount of dollars to work with, and our thinking is that manufacturing is what drives the service industries," he said. "It's the essential core, and if you don't have that, then you don't have the need for the services."
Mr. Sullivan said that as an example, the state's efforts in 1985 for the General Motors assembly plant in North Tarrytown -- tax incentives and infrastructure improvements worth $25 million -- had provided a solid return on investments, even with the planned closing of the factory in two years.
Mr. O'Rourke questioned whether the General Motors incentive package merely allowed a weak and inefficient manufacturing company to continue. "Are we sometimes resuscitating dinosaurs?" he said. "I don't know. But I see the focus now less on manufacturing and more on high-tech."
Mr. O'Rourke is seeking modifications in the State Constitution that would allow Westchester to operate more independently of Albany in offering incentive packages to companies, much the way New York City can. The changes would permit the county to reduce taxes for a company and develop grant packages.
For example, he said, Westchester is hoping to convince Unicef to move its headquarters to New Rochelle. But New York City recently won legislative approval to waive property taxes in its bid to keep the United Nations agency within its borders. "Westchester needs more of those tools," Mr. O'Rourke said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WITCO CORP (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS COUNTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); RELOCATIONS (88%); AIRLINES (86%); RADIO ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CRIME RATES (70%); AIRPORTS (69%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); AIRPORT OPERATION (63%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993



563 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Japan's New Prime Minister Vows Major Changes in Election System

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, Aug. 23

 BODY:
Japan's new Prime Minister, Morihiro Hosokawa, today pledged a fundamental reshaping of what he described as the corrupt electoral system and stronger efforts to reduce Japan's yawning trade surpluses.
At least in terms of oratory, Mr. Hosokawa's first policy address offered a remarkable shift from the statements of the conservative governments of the postwar era. He criticized Japan's narrow-minded pursuit of economic gain and the collusive institutions that excluded outsiders and worked against the interests of Japanese consumers. 
 Ignoring occasionally loud heckling from some opposition members in the Parliament, Mr. Hosokawa effectively launched the first Government in 38 years to exclude the Liberal Democratic Party by echoing many of Japan's long-time critics.
"It is time to candidly admit that Japan has so far put its highest priority on economic development and has not paid sufficient attention to improving the quality of life for each and every person," Mr. Hosokawa said, adding that a reduction in the trade surplus would help rectify this imbalance.
 
A Tenuous Coalition
 In several key respects, however, he promised continuity in a policy agenda that is, like the frail seven-party coalition government he heads, a mix of right-wing and left-wing goals.
Mr. Hosokawa said he placed his highest priority on maintaining strong relations with the United States and would continue to support the security treaty with Washington. He also vowed to continue Japan's role in international affairs, particularly through participation in the United Nations.
But while his proposals for political reform were sweeping, Mr. Hosokawa offered few assurances he would take strong action to reinvigorate the economy, which is being battered by a two-year-old recession and the soaring yen. Making matters worse, Mr. Hosokawa's coalition is badly divided over how to respond to the economic difficulties.
The Socialist Party, the largest party in the coalition, has traditionally favored tax cuts, since they benefit individuals rather than the big corporations long supported by the Government when it was in the hands of the Liberal Demcratic Party. Even some trade groups representing big corporations favor tax cuts.
 
Fear of Rising Deficit
 But Finance Ministry bureaucrats and more conservative members of the coalition oppose tax reductions because they feel such measures will not result in much new spending and will just inflate the budget deficit.
Mr. Hosokawa was vague in his economic prescriptions. He merely said his Cabinet was preparing "a range of measures from the broader policy perspective in response to the urgent situation confronting us today."
These measures will include, he said, deregulation of the economy and steps to try and pass along cheap import prices to consumers, who pay some of the highest prices in the world.
"I intend to work vigorously for expanded domestic demand and improved market access and for such consumer-oriented policies as rectifying the disparity between domestic and international prices and promoting deregualtion," he said.
Few here doubt that deregulation is needed; one government agency has determined that in 1992 there were 10,942 types of permits and licenses that the Government required various businesses to obtain.
The promise of a new electoral system was central to the strategy followed by Mr. Hosokawa in the recent election. But he stressed today that he would follow a tough line and eliminate completely corporate contributions to politicians and parties. He said he would also toughen laws on election financing violations.
 
Support for Nuclear Treaty
 In addition, Mr. Hosokawa ended months of debate and said that Japan would support an indefinite extension of the treaty on preventing the spread of nuclear weapons.
The previous Government had hesitated on the treaty's extension, creating concerns that Japan wanted to preserve the option of being able to develop its own such weapons if it faced a serious threat from North Korea or other neighboring countries.
Mr. Hosokawa also repeated his conciliatory comments on World War II.
"I would thus like to take this opportunity to express anew our profound remorse and apologies for the fact that past Japanese actions, including aggression and colonial rule, caused unbearable suffering and sorrow for so many people and to state that we will demonstrate our new determination by contributing more than ever before to world peace," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Morihiro Hosokawa, new Prime Minister of Japan, will give his first major policy address today, emphasizing economic issues. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PRIME MINISTERS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); CORRUPTION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); IMPORT PRICES (60%); JAPANESE YEN (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN) MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



564 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1794 words

HEADLINE: SOCCER;
Soccer Success Forges New Bolivia Optimism

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LA PAZ, Bolivia, Aug. 22

 BODY:
They come to the games with their faces painted in the national colors -- red, yellow and green -- and dance down the central boulevard, El Prado, to celebrate victories with a new pride and greater social unity than Bolivia has ever known as a country. And all because of a soccer team.
This land-locked country is the poorest in Latin America, sets the record for military coups in the region and is often mocked by neighbors of fairer complexion for its large Indian population. But Bolivians dare to dream the impossible -- qualifying as one of the 24 teams in next year's World Cup in the United States. 
 In its five-team South American group, Bolivia has beaten everyone -- Venezuela (twice), Ecuador, Uruguay and Brazil. No ties. No losses. It has scored more goals, 20, than any other Latin American team in the qualifying rounds and toyed with Venezuela today in the thin air of this capital city 12,000 feet above sea level, winning by 7-0. With today's victory over Venezuela, Bolivia has won all four of its home games, but must play its three remaining qualifying games away.
The team and the country suddenly have an international profile. American advertising agencies are already soliciting the Bolivian Soccer Federation about marketing the team in Latin America and the United States. Invitations have come from Miami to play in soccer matches with Mexico and Sweden and from Europe to play against Ireland and Scotland.
Only twice before in the 63-year history of the World Cup has this Andean country played in the final round, in1930 and 1950, and both appearances were by invitation of the host country (Uruguay in 1930 and Brazil in 1950).
Bolivians hope that the emergence of the soccer team as a power alongside such familiar World Cup champions as Brazil and Argentina is a precursor to the emergence of the country as an attractive place for foreign investment, with a track record of economic stability and 10 years of uninterrupted democracy.
"There's a real change in your image when you make the finals of the World Cup," said Marco Antonio Etcheverry, the team's star striker, who is also known as El Diablo (the Devil). "I remember when Colombia qualified for the 1990 games. It was like, 'Wow, the country's reputation soared overnight to another level.' We were in awe of them. That's what we're hoping will happen to us."
Such bright-eyed faith in the future comes at a time when, politically, the country seems to be leaving behind dictatorships and strongman rule and embracing the initial stages of sharing political power, particularly with its vast indigenous population.
Last June, in its Presidential elections, a former dictator, Hugo Banzer Suarez, was soundly defeated in the voting, as the public chose a ticket that was known as the "Gringo and the Indian."
The country overwhelmingly elected Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, an American-trained mining executive who speaks Spanish with a thick American accent, and his dark-skinned vice presidential running mate, Victor Hugo Cardenas, a philosopher, educator and an Aymara Indian born on the banks of Lake Titicaca.
It is the first time in any Latin American country that an indigenous leader has been elected to such a high national office.
"When I came here, the soccer team reflected the national identity, a very low self-image, a conquered people, down on themselves, such that if things got tough they would just quit," said Xavier Azkargorta, the team's coach and trainer from Barcelona, Spain.
"The first thing they had to learn was to respect and like themselves, and dignify the image of a soccer player," Azkargorta said. "And I think that is what's happening in the country as well.
"Bolivia is a country with everything: minerals, natural resources, vast agricultural lands. It only lacks development. There's nothing to be ashamed of. And that's exactly the same with soccer players."
 
Low Inflation, Mineral Riches
 And there are the nascent signs of such change. The country has the lowest inflation rate in all of Latin America, averaging 8 percent a year. American mining companies are beginning to find new deposits of gold and other minerals, and international oil executives say that they have no estimate as to the extent of the energy riches yet undiscovered in the country.
But these changes come against the backdrop of a history of problems. The Spanish plundered Bolivia's silver and gold, forcing the Indians to work in the mines, where many died. Since independence in 1825, Bolivia has lost territory in wars with all of its neighbors. Years of hyperinflation and backwardness have left the country with the highest poverty rate in the Western Hemisphere, with the exception of Haiti.
Indeed, its international image among its greatest detractors in Latin America was summed up last month by a former Chilean admiral, Jose Toribio Merino, who described Bolivia as consisting of "metamorphosized llamas who have learned how to speak but not to think."
But soccer may change some of that. On Sundays during games, local television stations transmit images of fans singing national songs with such lyrics as "Long Live Bolivia Near My Heart," and "Bolivia's My Country, Oh How I Love It."
"Soccer gives you two things, pride and joy," said Guido Loayza, president of the Bolivian Soccer Federation. "In a country like Bolivia, where so many people are poor, there are very few times when a country as a whole can feel pride and joy. This is one of those times."
 
Team and El Diablo Front-Page News
 The soccer team and El Diablo, the striker Etcheverry, are front-page news almost every day. Recently, during a headline-grabbing visit by Fidel Castro, a frustrated Sanchez de Lozada, in his typically biting humor said, "apparently Bolivians have forgotten that they have a new president."
Meanwhile, the soccer craze has given Bolivia perhaps the biggest moral victory to date in its struggle to legitimize the use of coca leaves. For centuries, Bolivians have chewed coca to allay hunger pangs and cope with the thin air in the Andes. They have also used it as a folk-medicine remedy.
Here, an herbal tea called mate de coca, made of coca leaves, is served to visitors to help them cope with the effects of the altitude. Pope John Paul II, Queen Sofia of Spain and former Vice President Dan Quayle have all partaken of the brew. It is even served in the American Embassy; however, agents of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration are forbidden to drink it.
But as raw material for cocaine, the export of coca leaves has been banned by international organizations. And for years, Bolivia has struggled to convince the international community that the fault lies with the consuming nations, since cocaine is produced only when chemicals are added, and that as a leaf, coca is less harmful than coffee. Bolivians describe cocaine, in fact, as a foreign substance.
Then in early August, FIFA, soccer's international governing body, conducted a surprise anti-doping test here during the Bolivia-Brazil game.
Two of the players, Bolivia's Miguel Angel Rimba and Brazil's Armelino Donizetti, also known as Zetti, tested positive for cocaine and were suspended after the match. But after a few days of explanation it turned out that both players had consumed small amounts of mate.
They were reinstated by FIFA, which Bolivians interpreted as the first international recognition that chewing coca or drinking coca tea is not the equivalent of taking cocaine.
Even with the victory today, Bolivia statistically is not assured of a place in the final round. But a tie in any of its final three games (at Brazil, at Uruguay and at Ecuador) would assure Bolivia of a trip to the United States next June.
Azkargorta is given much of the credit for the improvement in the team. Previously, soccer players were not held in particularly high regard, and what Azkargorta found when he arrived here to work with the players early this year was low morale and a tendency to give up.
"They were intermittent soccer players, only for a few days leading up to a match," the coach said. "But you have to be a soccer player all the time and consider that it is a dignity to be one."
One of the hardest cases was El Diablo himself, who arrived back in Bolivia after playing with Albacete in Spain (his contract was purchased by the Chilean club, Colo Colo) feeling depressed, with family and drinking problems.
Still, while morale was low when Azkargorta came, the technical skills were high. This was in large part due to the Tahuichi Aguilera Soccer Academy in Santa Cruz, known for training outstanding young players, including El Diablo, who is considered one of Latin America's next superstars. At present, six graduates of the academy are on the national team.
Only five countries are definitely in the finals so far: Mexico has qualified in the World Cup elimination round for Central America; Russia and Greece both qualified from European Group 5; the United States as the host country, and Germany as the defending champion.
Colombia and Argentina, along with Peru and Paraguay, are in South American Group A. The winner of that group advances to the finals while the second-place team will have to play Australia in a playoff for a berth in the finals. Bolivia, Brazil, Venezuela, Ecuador and Uruguay comprise Group B. Should Bolivia make it out of Group B (the top two teams will advance to the finals), the players will have to be satisfied with emotional, rather than monetary rewards. While every Argentine player will get a $100,000 bonus if the team qualifies for the final round and every Brazilian player will get $50,000, the Bolivians will get no more than $8,000 apiece.
 
Basque Coach Is a Folk Hero
 But with the World Cup finals still almost a year away, Azkargorta has become a kind of folk hero here, even though he is Spanish and could be seen as an extention of Spain's conquistadors.
"I'm Basque," he is quick to point out. "We had our own number of bloody and cruel conquistadors, but at the same time we are now an oppressed people ourselves so I can feel for the Bolivians."
Azkargorta does not let the team focus on future games. "The most dangerous opponent right now is Venezuela," he said. And he stresses that mental approach by the use of three words, "here and now." And he will not discuss with reporters whether the team will beat Brazil, in Recife, Brazil, on Sunday but he says he has no fears of the superpowers of the soccer world.
"If Brazil qualifies for the finals, they would go as one of the heavy favorites to win and we have already beaten them," he said. "Now you're not going to say to me that we cannot stand on our own against anyone."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bolivian soccer players throwing coach Xavier Azkargorta in the air to celebrate their World Cup victory. (Antonio Suarez for The New York Times) (pg. A1); "There's a real change in your image when you make the finals of the World Cup," says Bolivian striker Marco Antonio Etcheverry, left. (Allsport); Top, players celebrating during victory over Ecuador. (Associated Press); Below, spectators cheering Miguel Angel Rimba, who was suspended after testing positive for cocaine. The suspension was overturned when it was determined that he had been drinking mate, a tea made from coca leaf. (A. Rojas/Presencia) (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (53%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (94%); BOLIVIA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); URUGUAY (92%); ECUADOR (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BOLIVIA LATIN AMERICA (94%); BOLIVIA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); URUGUAY (92%); ECUADOR (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; SOCCER; WORLD CUP (SOCCER); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SOCCER (94%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); COUPS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); POLITICS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



565 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2837 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-Saudi Deals in 90's Shifting Away From Cash Toward Credit

SERIES: Dwindling Riches: Saudi Arabia's Ailing Finances -- Second of two articles.

BYLINE: By Stephen Engelberg, Special to The New York Times; The following article is based on reporting by Stephen Engelberg, Jeff Gerth and Tim Weiner and was written by Mr. Engelberg.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 21

 BODY:
Saudi Arabia's financial decline, the consequence of a decade in which the country lived beyond its means, is fundamentally reshaping the relationship between Riyadh and Washington.
When the Saudis were flush with so-called petrodollars, they bought whatever they could from the United States -- warplanes, missiles, jetliners. The purchases generated tens of thousands of jobs for American military and aerospace workers. 
 Today, the United States is making every effort to insure that the Saudis can buy on credit what they once bought with cash.
Many officials of the Clinton Administration say they see the sales as crucial to keeping American arms makers afloat while the American military shrinks. They are confident the Saudis can afford their pending purchases, which include $30 billion in American weapons and $6 billion in airliners.
But others, including some Government experts, Western advisers to Saudi Arabia and independent analysts, say they are worried. They contend that the heavy spending on weapons has forced the Saudis to cut the subsidies and patronage that have bought domestic tranquillity for the monarchy. Saudi officials have told their American counterparts that they intend to choose guns over butter.
"They've tilted the wrong way," said William Quandt, a former White House official in the Nixon and Carter Administrations responsible for the Middle East. "All the billions they've spent on arms haven't been very useful to them."
 
'Not a Popular Regime'
 He added: "This is not a popular regime. It's a huge patronage system that has spread the wealth around. If you take that away, you could contribute to a political crisis."
Saudi officials declined to respond to repeated requests for interviews or to written questions on this subject. But officials from the United States and Saudi Arabia, speaking on condition of anonymity, acknowledged that the nature of the relationship had changed.
The Saudis, accustomed to dealing with Washington in secret and on the basis of handshakes, now find themselves forced to live by the rules by which other developing nations play -- rules about supplying financial data to obtain credit and paying debts.
These are some of the signs of the changing relationship:
*A decision by the Pentagon to ease the terms of payment when a Saudi cash-flow crisis threatened billions of dollars worth of weapons deals last year.
*Dimming prospects for future Saudi arms orders for American military manufacturers already reeling from the end of the cold war.
*Promises by the United States Export-Import Bank to guarantee more than $6 billion in loans for the purchase of airliners by Saudi Arabia. If the deal goes through, the United States Government will co-sign huge loans that private banks have deemed too risky to underwrite alone.
*Debates within the United States Government about how seriously the financial troubles of Saudi Arabia affect its creditworthiness. Federal Reserve officials argued unsuccessfully this year to lower the Saudis' credit rating, which would have damaged the ability of Riyadh to borrow from American banks.
For their part, Saudi officials said they felt pressured by the budget problems in the United States, which they said had forced Washington to sell more weapons to Riyadh -- and to demand quick repayment of the costs of the Persian Gulf war.
"In the 1970's," a Saudi official said, "the United States wouldn't have accepted one penny from Saudi Arabia" for fighting the war.
 
The Old Order
Handshakes Sealed Billion-Dollar Deals
 Throughout the 1980's, the Saudis' dealings with the United States Government often were conducted through the Central Intelligence Agency and the Pentagon, institutions that share the Saudis' passion for secrecy.
From 1984 to 1987, the Defense Secretary, Caspar W. Weinberger, and the Saudi Ambassador, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, met or talked at least 64 times, according to Mr. Weinberger's diaries. The son of the Saudi Defense Minister, Prince Bandar is a confidant of Presidents who has wooed and won Washington officials for a decade.
The Ambassador and the Defense Secretary fought hard to help the Saudis acquire spy planes, sophisticated antiaircraft missiles and other American weapons over the strong objections of Congress. In the 1980's, the Saudis paid $28.4 billion to the United States for military equipment, according to the Pentagon. They also paid more than $1 billion for C.I.A. operations around the world, including secret support for Nicaraguan rebels that was handled by Prince Bandar and King Fahd after Congress cut off funds for the rebels.
 
A Saudi Binge
 The relationship was sealed in blood when the United States went to war to defeat Saddam Hussein and defend the Saudis. Riyadh's commitment to repay the United States for the gulf war was based on a handshake.
After the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August 1990, "Bandar went on a binge," as a United States official described it. The spending spree lasted more than two years. When it was over, Saudia Arabia had promised to buy more than $26 billion of American weapons, including fighter jets, missiles, tanks and armored personnel carriers, Defense Department records show. Saudi and American officials said the Saudi Finance Ministry was initially unaware of all the arms deals the Ambassador had made -- and did not include all the costs in the national budget.
The effects of the purchases are being felt now. But there was a warning at the time.
 
The Cost of War
 The war and the weapons sales put Saudi Arabia "under considerable economic stress," Richard G. Darman, President George Bush's budget director, told Congress on July 31, 1991. "They are now, for the first time, borrowing considerably to service their own needs."
Congress, impatient for the Saudis to pay the United States for the costs of the gulf war, thought them wealthy enough to pay for American weapons and goals.
The testimony of Mr. Darman was essentially ignored -- by Congress, by the press and by his colleagues in the Bush Administration.
Henry S. Rowen, a former senior Pentagon official, said the Bush Administration had turned a deaf ear to the Saudis' protestations of poverty.
"It was not something we paid a lot of attention to," Mr. Rowen recalled. "We said: 'You've got it. Now come on, put it on the table.' "
 
The New Reality
With Little Cash, Spending Declines
 Despite its financial woes, Saudi Arabia remains the best foreign customer of American military contractors. Its arms contracts signed with the Pentagon since June 1990 total $30 billion, roughly equal to the amount spent by the American military on major weapons systems this year.
But the stream of cash is running dry. A State Department report to Congress this year projected a significant drop in Saudi military orders, to $2.75 billion next year, from $12.5 billion this year.
Indeed, while the Saudis had promised to pay the Pentagon for almost everything they ordered, Defense Department officials said they had quietly dropped two contracts: one for $64 million of rocket launchers, the other, worth more than $1 billion, for 150 battle tanks. A spokesman for the General Dynamics Corporation, the maker of the tanks, said the company believed the Saudis had merely delayed the purchase.
When foreign countries buy weapons through the Pentagon, they put money in a foreign military sales trust fund. They must deposit enough to cover cancellation fees and the next quarterly payment. Military contractors are paid as they finish their work.
A few years ago, the Saudis maintained a multibillion-dollar surplus in their account. But Pentagon officials said the surplus disappeared after the gulf war. First, the Saudi account fell below the level required by the Pentagon rules. Then it dwindled further, and in early 1992 was close to the point at which "stop work" orders must be sent to contractors.
This is how some Government officials, including some from the Pentagon, described the cash flow crisis:
By May 1992, Saudi Arabia owed the Pentagon $16 billion. Saudi officials suggested stretching out the payments, to 10 years from 4.
The Saudis had "what they characterized as a two- to three-year cash-flow problem as a result of Desert Storm," a senior Pentagon official recalled. But experts in the Administration, including those from the Central Intelligence Agency, insisted that "if there was a financial problem, it was short term," according to a former Bush Administration official.
After a round of high-level meetings, the Pentagon decided against allowing the Saudis to renegotiate their weapons contracts. Instead, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney signed a waiver aimed at helping Saudi Arabia through the trying period. With the stroke of a pen, Saudi Arabia was excused from advancing $1.3 billion to cover potential cancellation fees.
A few months after they raised the alarm about the burdens of paying for arms, the Saudis placed new orders that totaled nearly $11 billion.
In September, with his re-election campaign hanging in the balance, President Bush flew to the headquarters of the cash-starved McDonnell Douglas Company in St. Louis. Before a cheering crowd of flag-waving employees, Mr. Bush personally guaranteed that Saudi Arabia would buy 72 of the company's F-15 fighters.
 
A Mixture of Motives
 A former Bush Administration official said the White House had a mixture of motives for pushing the $9 billion Saudi deal, including the political needs of President Bush, the financial troubles of McDonnell Douglas and the possible loss of tens of thousands of aerospace jobs.
Money was never an issue, he said: "There was no one saying: 'What about their ability to pay for this?' "
Some in the Pentagon argued that the purchase was unwise from a military standpoint, and that the Saudis would have been better off buying larger quantities of cheaper planes. They lost. "The bottom line was: You can't close the F-15 assembly line," a former official said.
Under the Clinton Administration, the cash problem in Saudi Arabia has drawn Secretary of Commerce Ronald H. Brown to Riyadh. In May, he urged Saudi officials to complete the planned purchase of 17 C-130 air cargo planes manufactured by Lockheed Aeronautical Systems in Marietta, Ga., officials said. The Saudis stopped taking delivery after receiving the 10th plane last year.
"They made it clear they have a requirement for 17," said Robert E. McAndrew, the director of international marketing at Lockheed Aeronautical. "They bought 10 and deferred the other 7. If the fact is they don't have the money, it's just going to take more time."
 
The Changing Rules
Loan Guarantees Replace Good Will
 Huge commercial deals are still going ahead. Saudi Arabia's state airline, Saudia, wants a new fleet of planes -- worth about $6.2 billion. The Boeing Company hopes to manufacture them. McDonnell Douglas is also interested.
President Clinton called King Fahd last week, seeking assurances that the Saudis would buy the planes from the American companies instead of their chief competitor, the Airbus Industrie consortium in Europe.
It was clear months ago that the deal would require government-guaranteed loans.
Enter the Export-Import Bank, a Federal agency that promotes American exports to developing countries by backing deals the private sector considers too risky. To make the jetliner sale happen, the bank is prepared to guarantee, or co-sign, as much as $6.2 billion in loans -- the biggest deal in its history. The American Government will be liable if the loans are not repaid.
If the airplane sale goes through, Saudi Arabia would leap overnight from being one of the bank's smallest clients to one of its biggest. That, along with the bank's other obligations, would stretch its budget to its limit. So the bank wants Congress to remove the cap on the total liabilities it assumes.
Shortly before agreeing preliminarily to underwrite the jetliner deal, the bank doubled its fees for aircraft financing, to 4 percent of the amount lent, from 2 percent. Officials at the bank said they expected to make a profit on the deal.
There is a diplomatically sensitive catch. The Export-Import bank has insisted that the Saudi Government must also guarantee the loan, according to American officials.
In essence, the United States is saying that the state-owned airline company is less than a sure thing. "It's a vote of no confidence" in Saudi Arabia, said a Saudi official who termed the request "insulting."
 
The Risk Factor
A Closer Scrutiny Of Credit Ratings
 For the first time, the credit ratings accorded the Saudis by agencies of the United States Government have become the topic of a heated debate. The question is: How risky a business is Saudi Arabia?
Until the 1990's, Saudi Arabia cared little about credit ratings, bank loans or guarantees by the United States Government. As long as the kingdom paid cash, its hazy figures on its budget and its banks were not important.
These days, bank regulators are looking much more closely. If they conclude that loans to Saudi Arabia are risky, loans from American banks would become more costly, or even impossible to get.
In March, a group of Federal bank regulators, called the Inter-Agency Country Exposure Review Committee, gathered for a closed-door meeting in northern Virginia. The committee, comprising officials from the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, rates the creditworthiness of foreign countries on a seven-step scale. The March meeting was described by Federal officials who spoke on condition of anonymity.
 
A Move to Downgrade
 Economists from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York urged the committee to lower Saudi Arabia's rating, which stood at "moderately strong," the second-highest category. Had the committee taken the New York Fed cue, Saudi Arabia's rating would probably have fallen to "weak," the third-highest notch.
Knocking down the rating of a country is not taken lightly. The ratings are distributed to American banks and almost inevitably become known in the financial industry. International banking is based, in part, on confidence and perception. If American regulators are seen as nervous about a country, that alone can further shake its standing.
A Treasury Department official who oversees Saudi affairs, Elizabeth Hughes, argued strongly against cutting the rating of the Saudis. Her views prevailed.
The Government agencies that grant credit for export deals and agriculture have a separate rating committee. It, too, is grappling with the question of whether to downgrade Saudi Arabia. According to Clinton Administration officials, the panel last year gave Saudi Arabia a "B" average, based mostly on the Saudis' history of paying their bills on time.
 
The Consequences
Political Stability: The Next Casualty?
 The United States' special handling of Saudi Arabia has amounted to an unpublicized foreign aid program. The practice is not unique. Such favors also go to two other allies in the Middle East: Israel and Egypt.
In the past, that list might also have included two countries that provided oil to America: Iran and Iraq. But Saudi Arabia is not Iran -- that is an article of faith among most American foreign-policy, financial and intelligence officials.
With few exceptions, they said the Saudi monarchy had the wisdom to fend off challenges by religious extremists, the will to open a closed society and the willingness to set the country on a sound fiscal course.
Others think differently. American businessmen and political analysts said fiscal problems could undermine the political stability of Saudi Arabia. And, they said, there was a danger that Washington might remain wedded to a stereotype of Saudi Arabia as a bottomless treasure chest.
 
More Debts and Dependence
 "People think we have a wonderful gold mine in Saudi Arabia, that we can sell a lot of military equipment to them to create jobs, to help the defense industry's transition out of the cold war, to improve our balance of payments and to make Saudi Arabia safer," said a leading adviser to the Saudis who has seen their most closely guarded financial data.
He said the weapons sales, by sharply increasing the Saudis' debts and dependence on Americans, gave ammunition to fundamentalist opponents of the Saudi Government.
"I don't think the U.S. Government knows what it's doing by shoving weapons down the Saudis' throats," the financial adviser said. "They're forgetting that what they are doing is creating instability in Saudi Arabia. That could be the greatest risk to Saudi security."
No amount of arms spending will insure the security of Saudi Arabia, a prominent Saudi official said. "In the war, we discovered that no matter how built up we become, we can't replace the U.S.," the Saudi said. "The U.S. is our protector."

GRAPHIC: Photos: TOP The Tube-Launched Optically Guided missile is part of the $30 billion in Saudi purchases; ABOVE LEFTIn the gulf war, the new four-wheel drive vehicle, replaced the well-known jeep. (Associated Press); ABOVE RIGHT $6 billion in F-15 Eagle purchaces by the Saudis have generated thousands of jobs for American aerospace workers. (Sygma); BELOW In the 1980's, Saudi Arabia acquired sophisticated Patriot antiaircraft missiles. (Associated Press) (pg. A6)
 
Graph: "Selling to Saudis" tracks total annual value of new United States arms sales agreements with Saudi Arabia since 1984. (Source: Congressional Research Service) (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

INDUSTRY: SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (91%); 

COMPANY: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF INDIA (51%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF JAPAN (51%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF KOREA (51%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAUDI ARABIA SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ROYAL FAMILY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CREDIT; FORECASTS; ARMS SALES ABROAD MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); TRENDS (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); COLD WAR (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); DEFENSE ORDERS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); POLITICS (63%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (60%); 

PERSON: ENGELBERG, STEPHEN; GERTH, JEFF; WEINER, TIM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) RICHARD NIXON (59%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



566 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Central-Bank Gripes About A New World

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JACKSON HOLE, Wyo., Aug. 22

 BODY:
To most people the analogy would be far-fetched, but at a conference of central bankers at this Rocky Mountain resort, the bankers often compared themselves to generals waging war.
The reason offered is that those who forge monetary policy, like those who wage war, have to grapple with an unending torrent of chance and change. 
 "Monetary policy is hell," declared Donald Kohn, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Board.
Benjamin M. Friedman, a Harvard University economist, said, "It may be true that war is the human activity most vitally subject to chance and happenstance, but monetary policy runs a close second."
 
Change Brings Confusion
 At the three-day conference, which ended on Saturday, central bankers from two dozen countries and private economists talked -- and grumbled -- about how enormous changes in the financial world have made it harder for central banks to carry out their central role: holding down inflation.
Another theme heard through the conference was that central banks are perhaps becoming less powerful than they used to be in the face of developments like the explosion in cross-border movements of capital.
"Central banks don't have as much leverage over their economies as they used to," said Michael Mussa, director of research at the International Monetary Fund. He said that to reduce inflation pressure to a certain degree, some central banks might have to raise interest rates twice as much as they once had to.
As a result of the rapid changes in capital markets, many central banks have discovered that their tried-and-true rules for carrying out monetary policy have become as useless as buggy whips. Without neat rules to lean back on, central bankers often feel exposed. Many are increasingly turning to seat-of-the-pants discretion to guide policy -- a development that caused heated debate here.
Much of the conference, sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, was devoted to analyzing a litany of changes that have made the central bankers' work hellish. These include:
*The nearly $1 trillion that moves around the world each day in foreign-currency trading makes it harder for the bankers to keep exchange rates where they want them. Witness the repeated European monetary crises over the last year.
*The growing popularity of adjustable-rate mortgages and other financial tools that use varying interest rates increases the pain when central banks raise rates. Hans Tietmeyer, vice president of Germany's central bank, noted that this increased pressure not to take such unpopular steps.
*The proliferation of offshore banking centers has made it more difficult for central bankers to require commercial banks to increase their minimum reserves, a step that tends to slow inflation by reducing the ability to lend. Banks can respond by shifting activities to offshore sites without reserve requirements.
*Savings and loan institutions no longer hold as many home mortgages as they did because mortgages are now bundled together and sold to investors, freeing far more money for further mortgage lending. As a result, when the Federal Reserve raises interest rates to reduce economic activity, those rate increases are less potent than before in slowing home sales and construction.
*The role of commercial banks has declined as companies borrow increasingly from finance companies and the bond market. Perhaps along with this, the ability of central banks to slow the economy by restricting lending has declined, too.
 
Fed's Broken Compass
 Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that as a result of these developments, the effect the Fed "once had on the credit flows provided for businesses and home construction is largely dissipated."
Probably the strongest lament among the central bankers was that the tool they used most to guide monetary policy -- growth in the money supply -- had become unreliable.
For much of the 1970's and 1980's, the Federal Reserve and many other countries' central banks sought to create a certain level of growth in the money supply. Those targets would more or less steer their economies toward a desired level of inflation and economic growth. Briefly put, X amount of monetary growth produced Y amount of economic growth.
That relationship has broken down because of financial deregulation and major changes in the way that individuals invest their savings. The Federal Reserve has concluded that it can now produce a certain amount of growth with less growth in one of its major money-supply indexes, the M-2, a measure of money that includes cash, savings and checking accounts, and small certificates of deposit.
But because M-2 is acting erratically by previous assumptions, the Fed does not know exactly how much monetary growth is needed to produce a desired level of economic growth. The main reason for this uncertainty is that so many people have moved their money from savings accounts, which are part of the money supply, into mutual funds, which are not considered part of the money supply.
 
Verities or Situations?
 "This behavior has, at least for the time being, greatly undermined the use of M-2," Mr. Greenspan said.
The inability to rely on measures like M-2 as a yardstick has left central bankers groping for new tools to guide monetary policy. Some are searching for the perfect new rule to follow, while others have settled on central bankers' using their discretion, constantly monitoring the economy for signs of inflation or recession.
"To return to a purely discretionary policy regime puts credibility at risk," said Andrew Crockett, executive director of the Bank of England. "How, economic agents may ask, can we assess the objectives of policy, and the likely reaction to different types of disturbance? How can we trust the authorities not to weaken or abandon their commitment to stated policy goals?"
Britain's new approach is to forecast what inflation will be in a year or two and then adjust interest rates with the aim of limiting inflation to a maximum of 2 percent a year at that time.
The Federal Reserve has taken more of a discretionary approach, frequently watching figures on inflation, unemployment and other developments, and then adjusting interest rates with the goal of keeping inflation subdued while producing moderate growth.
Allan Meltzer, an economics professor at Carnegie Mellon University, attacked such an approach, complaining that it leaves people involved in financial markets guessing wildly what the Federal Reserve plans to do.
"The gains of discretion are less than the costs," he said. "Discretionary policy relies on forecasts. But forecasts cannot reliably distinguish a boom or a recession a quarter or a year ahead."
Mr. Meltzer urged the Federal Reserve to rely on some clear rules that financial professionals and investors can look to. But Professor Friedman of Harvard praised the Fed's discretionary approach, saying, "If the Fed had followed the rules it followed in the past, that would have led to major policy errors."
Testifying before Congress in July, Mr. Greenspan said the Federal Reserve would increasingly turn to a new tool -- what he called "equilibrium real interest rates." Real interest rates are interest rates minus expected inflation, while the equilibrium real rate is the rate that would steer the economy to its maximum level of growth without increasing inflation.
Many economists criticized Mr. Greenspan's idea because it was not at all clear how to determine the equilibrium real interest rate. Mr. Kohn, the Federal Reserve economist, acknowledged here that it was hard to measure real interest rates and to assess what the desired equilibrium rate would be a year, 5 years or 10 years down the line.
Several economists viewed his statement as a retreat by the Federal Reserve from using equilibrium rates. But Mr. Kohn said, "Although difficulties in using real rates are formidable, in theory as well as in practice, there is a potential significant place for them in policy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (66%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (64%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (66%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CENTRAL BANKS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); MOUNTAINS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



567 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Confronts Its Success

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 22

 BODY:
In seizing the mantle of computer industry leadership from I.B.M., the Microsoft Corporation is earning the headaches of power as well as the influence.
The extent of the software publisher's legal problems became clearer on Friday. Shortly after the Federal Trade Commission ended a 38-month investigation into Microsoft's business practices, the Antitrust Division of the Justice Department said that it would pursue its own inquiry. 
 The new investigation is likely to raise complex political issues for the Clinton Administration, which has made support for American high-technology companies part of its main agenda.
Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., was started by William H. Gates and Paul Allen after Mr. Gates dropped out of Harvard University in 1975. It is widely viewed as a model of the kind of company that creates the skilled jobs that the Administration wants to encourage.
 
Specter of I.B.M. Case
 I.B.M. fought a Justice Department investigation from 1969 until 1982, a case that produced more than 760 million documents and ultimately had a debilitating effect on the world's largest computer maker.
Yet Microsoft, which controls almost 80 percent of the market for personal computer operating systems, and which was investigated by the F.T.C. on accusations that it had locked customers into using its MS-DOS program, had deliberately created incompatibilities for competitors, and had unfairly linked its applications to its operating system, is a very different competitor from I.B.M.
"I.B.M. was a monolith that was a government in itself," said Susan Braden, a Washington attorney who was part of the Justice Department team that investigated I.B.M. and who later worked at the Federal Trade Commission. "Microsoft is more of an opportunistic culture that is involved in many different parts of the industry."
Indeed, Microsoft's preoccupation with creating as many new industry alliances as it can, in areas as diverse as interactive cable television, wireless portable computing and office equipment, may limit the damage from any prolonged investigation.
"Microsoft is waltzing ahead with cable and all the other things where all the action is going to be," said Esther Dyson, publisher of Release 1.0, a computer-industry newsletter.
Moreover, Microsoft's main software business is going through many of the same changes that the personal computer hardware business has already been through, suggesting that the software publisher might be more willing to strike a quick deal with the Justice Department as it moves ahead to new markets.
"It's all a market-share game," said Mark Stahlman, president of New Media Associates, a consulting firm. "There's no growth in PC software. As unit prices fall, the competitive game shifts and the question is will Microsoft wind up being handcuffed in a brand new ball game."
A number of industry executives have suggested that Microsoft may be willing to cut a deal with the Justice Department because any restrictions will presumably come in business areas that are now of less importance to the company.
 
Divided Opinion on F.T.C.
 The F.T.C. dropped its investigation on Friday after its commissioners deadlocked twice on proposed charges assembled by staff attorneys. There are five commissioners; one, Roscoe B. Starek, refrained from both votes because of a possible conflict of interest.
In February, commission investigators sought to bring a suit against Microsoft in Federal court accusing it of "exclusionary tying practices," creating incompatibilities between its own and its competitors' operating systems, and illegal licensing practices.
In July, the F.T.C. staff tried to persuade the commissioners to issue an administrative complaint against Microsoft for violations of the Federal Trade Commission Act, as well as for violating Section 3 of the Clayton Antitrust Act, which forbids contracts or selling agreements that exclude use of competitors' products or which tend to create a monopoly.
 
Rivals Offer Their Research
 At a meeting on Aug. 4 with financial analysts, Mr. Gates said Microsoft had not engaged in anticompetitive practices. However, a number of competitors have supplied the F.T.C. with volumes of information in an effort to limit Microsoft's power.
Novell Inc., the Provo, Utah-based maker of computer office network software, has been the leader in a campaign within the industry against Microsoft. Novell, which has a dominant share in its own market and which publishes a PC operating system that competes with Microsoft's, has hired several law firms, economists and public relations people as part of the effort.
Operating systems govern a computer's basic functions, and thus a supplier of such a program has tremendous influence both with hardware manufacturers and with companies who write applications like word-processing programs, spreadsheets and data bases.
A principal issue before the Federal Trade Commission was whether Microsoft had licensed its MS-DOS operating system program to personal computer companies in a way that it made it impossible for competing companies to sell their products.
One issue has been whether Microsoft forced computer makers to pay royalties for each personal computer they sell, regardless of whether or not a copy of MS-DOS was shipped with the machine.
Microsoft has repeatedly insisted that its licensing practices do not require companies to make such commitments.
But an executive at a competitor, who spoke on the condition that he not be further identified, said he frequently found that customers would tell him that they would only get the best royalty rates if they agreed to license a copy of MS-DOS for every personal computer they shipped.
"If you agreed to pay royalties based on the number of Intel-compatible systems you shipped, as opposed to the number that actually went out with the software, you got a substantial discount from Microsoft," he said. MS-DOS is an operating system designed for Intel-compatible computers.
 
Illegal or Simply Aggressive?
 But whether or not such a pricing strategy is illegal has yet to be decided.
A separate issue before the F.T.C. was the relationship between Microsoft's two operating system products, Windows and MS-DOS. A number of competitors had charged that Microsoft's applications programmers were able to take unfair advantage of undocumented instructions in MS-DOS -- secret operating-system functions that are not in programmers' manuals. These undocumented capabilities could theoretically be used to give Microsoft's word processors, spreadsheets or data bases a feature advantage.
Microsoft in theory could also take advantage of the relationship between Windows and MS-DOS, which have both become industry standards.
 
A Message Varies
 The issue was raised in the September issue of Dr. Dobbs' Journal, a programmer's magazine. Andrew Schulman, a technical writer, examined a mysterious message found in the Windows 3.1 source code, the instructions readable only by a programmer. The message, which appeared in one pre-release version of Windows, informed a user running Windows with a non-Microsoft version of the operating system that a nonfatal error had occurred and suggested that the user call Microsoft.
Mr. Schulman discovered that in the release version of Windows, Microsoft had turned off the feature, but had left the instructions buried in the program. In his article, he raised the possibility that Microsoft could use the instructions to discourage customers from using non-Microsoft operating systems, which would be a violation of antitrust law.
Microsoft has replied that the code was developed to determine if MS-DOS was being used, in an effort to reduce the support burden on the company. The instructions were not activated in the release version, it says, because the company was concerned about further accusations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (96%); IBMC (BRU) (92%); IBM (NYSE) (92%); IBM (LSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC) MICROSOFT CORP (96%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (92%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC) FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); LAWYERS (74%); MARKET SHARE (71%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (65%); 

PERSON: MARKHOFF, JOHN BILL GATES (73%); PAUL ALLEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



568 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International
Saudi Arabia's financial decline, the consequence of a decade in which the country lived beyond its means, is fundamentally reshaping the relationship between Riyadh and Washington. Today, the United States is making every effort to insure that the Saudis can buy on credit what they once bought with cash. [Page A1.] 
 The North American Free Trade Agreement's advocates and opponents are liming up and rallying grass-roots supporters. The three-nation accord requires approval by simple majorities in the House and the Senate. [D1.]
Japan's persistent recession and the crisis of the soaring yen are forcing the new Prime Minister to emphasize economic issues, which are deeply divisive to his frail seven-party coalition. [A2.]
 
The Economy
Central bankers and economists ended a three-day conference in Wyoming grumbling about how enormous changes in the financial world have made it harder for them to carry out their primary role: holding down inflation. [D1.]
Federal regulators expect to issue new rules this week requiring savings and loan associations to maintain extra capital to keep them from going broke when interest rates shift unpredictably, according to Administration officials. [D2.]
Seasoned by two or three months of working at jobs in New York, summer interns share two realizations: it's a tough world out there, but they are a step ahead of the game. [D1.]
 
Companies
Microsoft is earning the headaches of power as well as the influence. Shortly after the Federal Trade Commission ended a 38-month investigation into the company's business practices, the Antitrust Division of the Justice Department said that it would pursue its own inquiry. [D1.]
 
The Media Business
Rupert Murdoch is close to creating the first truly global television empire. With his $525 million purchase last month of a controlling interest in Star TV, Asia's pioneer satellite television service, Mr. Murdoch has the potential of reaching two-thirds of the world's people. Star's five satellite channels can be seen in 38 nations in Asia and the Middle East. [D1.]
Romance novels are a $750 million industry and account for 46 percent of mass-market paperback fiction sales, according to industry figures. But not just anybody gets published. [D6.]
There are just six weeks left for the nation's cable systems to reach monetary agreements with broadcast stations or else drop those stations from their lineups. Television. [D6.]
The Philadelphia Inquirer and the Philadelphia Daily News say they won't stop publishing if there is a strike when union contracts expire Aug. 31. [D6.]
The latest in market research? Asking consumers to videotape themselves while they shop. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
 
Today's Columns
Sales of junk bonds have smashed last year's record levels of the sub-investment-grade corporate debt less than eight months into 1993. Jonathan Fuerbringer: Credit Markets. [D5.]
If one inventor has his way, an energy clock will be hanging in every home. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]
The stock of Luby's Cafeterias has been hitting new highs, as some analysts predict a turnaround. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RECESSION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); BONDS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); SAVINGS & LOANS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (62%); MARKET RESEARCH (60%); BOOK SALES (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); JAPANESE YEN (55%); PRIME MINISTERS (55%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



569 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: Starting the Climb -- A periodic look at summer interns;
Career Preview Also Works As Mirror for the Job Hunter

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
As the time to return to classes fast approaches, summer interns, seasoned by two or three months of working at jobs in New York, share two realizations: it's a tough world out there, but they are a step ahead of the game.
"A job isn't going to fall in your lap," said Brett Grossman, an intern with the Avrett, Free & Ginsberg advertising firm. "You're going to have to work on it, and you get a lot of rejection." 
 The brutal employment situation is reflected in a new survey by the Hanigan Consulting Group, which showed that hiring by major corporations fell 55 percent from 1989 to 1993. This follows the annual Lindquist Endicott Report by Northwestern University, showing a tiny improvement in prospects compared with 1992 but still representing what the report's author, Victor R. Lindquist, terms "the worst situation in 20 years."
 
'A Step Ahead'
 Participants in summer internships fare much better than others. The Northwestern survey of 258 corporations showed that 17 percent of those hired immediately after graduation this year had been interns or the equivalent. Of interns, 37 percent are offered jobs, and 49 percent of those accept.
"You're kind of a step ahead of people who didn't do one," said Amy Luberto, an accounting student who has spent the summer as an intern at KPMG Peat Marwick. She said interns who were hired permanently by the same employers could "pick up from where they left off and be a step ahead."
Fully half of employers say they plan to increase their internship programs. One of them is the Union Carbide Corporation, which plans to raise the proportion of interns to half of its new hires in technical fields, from 40 percent. It attaches so much importance to the effort that it is identifying potential interns as early as freshman year for internships more than two years in the future.
"Junior year is too late," said Don Gatewood, Union Carbide's recruiting manager. When Union Carbide finds a good freshman prospect, a company representative stays in contact, showing an interest in the student's progress. With minority students, who are much in demand, this effort is particularly important.
Companies say the expense is far less than the expense of hiring unknown people less apt to fit in.
As summer interns being profiled in this series of articles met for the first time recently to discuss their job plans, the atmosphere was pleasant. There were jokes about how Mr. Grossman had been assigned to roam drugstores to scout out competing products and about the remuneration of William McRae, a law summer associate at Chadbourne & Parke and, at $1,600 a week, the highest paid of the group. Philosophical tidbits from cabdrivers were passed on. It seemed generally difficult to walk by New York's many beggars without giving them some change.
The interns were quick to make the transition -- albeit with strained humor -- from the psychic anguish of rejecting a poor person's entreaties to their own worries about being turned down for jobs. The toughest turndowns were the ones they fear might happen to them. These young people competed hard to be chosen as interns, scrambled through the summer to improve their skills and make a good impression, and are now gathering energy and sharpening wiles for the real job hunt.
 
Aggressive Approach
 "You've got to push it every way you can, but not seem like you're pushing it either," said Nick Lobel-Weiss, who has spent the summer working for the American League of Theaters and Producers and is now scouting for a new internship to replace his fall semester at Oberlin College and get college credit in the process.
"There are people who have finished graduate school in theater management who can't find that $100-a-week job to start," he continued. "There's a lot of no."
He said he had learned to be very aggressive in the face of such competition. "I used to write letters that began, 'I'm sorry to bother you,' " he said. "Now, I begin, 'You are the person I want to work for and you want me.' "
Mr. Grossman said he had learned much but found the experience humbling because it had made him realize how much more there was to know.
He said that he had proudly displayed his portfolio to three advertising professionals and that they had questioned a number of important details he said he had never considered. "What I thought was really good isn't good enough," he said. "I want to be an art director, and it isn't as refined as it should be. You have to be so meticulous."
 
Sharpening the Message
 The Southern Methodist University junior said his appreciation of his craft had become much more refined. But, oddly enough, he said this meant breaking things down to "the simplest factors."
"The yardstick by which you change yourself is totally changed in New York," he said. "In Dallas, people sort of sit back and take a look at the big picture. New York is like a Polaroid."
Mr. McRae jumped in to say that among law students, "New York is pretty much the one city that scares the hell out of them."
"I heard some law firms actually have cots and laundry service so you could basically sleep in the office to keep your billable hours up," he said.
His experience did not turn out to be that harsh. "I have stayed a few late nights," he said. "But it's not the sort of twisted work ethic that has made New York's reputation."
Mr. McRae said that statistically graduates of Harvard Law School, which he attends, had a very slim chance of ending up unemployed. But in a way, this added another fear, he said, or perhaps joked. "What if you're that one person in 500 who just happens to repulse employers so much that nobody will hire him?"
 
Learning Corporate Lore
 Ms. Luberto, who will return to Pennsylvania State University soon, said her experience in New York had reduced some fears, particularly about the corporate world. One source of security was being in a class of 20 interns in KPMG's New York office, though very often they would be dispersed, working for different clients. Another was the accounting firm's elaborate program of intern supervision, through which she learned valuable pieces of corporate lore and practice.
And that help will continue. "I can keep in touch with my mentors all through my senior year," she said.
Perhaps because she hoped to come back to Peat Marwick, Ms. Luberto did not seem nervous about the immediate future. But she also emphasized that she was well aware that people often changed courses abruptly, citing the example of her sister, who did not go to culinary school until she was 28, then did an internship at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel at 30 and became a chef.
 
'Dick Tracy Society'
 Some of the interns said they expected great change in their professions, though those in law and accounting foresaw a steady demand for the same skills. The boldest vision of future shock was sketched by Mr. Grossman.
"I see a Dick Tracy society," he said, saying that small wireless and paperless devices will instantly supply people's needs. At the other extreme, he mentioned reading about a plan to send a billboard into space, one that could display messages two miles long across the sky. People's personal notebooks will connect "with anywhere in the world," he predicted.
"All the new technologies will become advertising vehicles in one way or another," he said. "And the industry will have to adjust."
 
Worried About Debts
 A big concern of the interns was student debts. Mr. McRae said he was $80,000 in debt and saw his beginning years in legal practice as "being a conduit to the banks." Mr. Lobel-Wiess, who also expects to be tens of thousands of dollars in debt upon graduation, was only slightly sympathetic.
"That conduit will at least be flowing," he said. "For me, it's a little scary."
Natika Smith, who had already returned to her home in California, had the chance to her offer her comments by phone after the group meeting. She was one of 25 participants in Cornell University Medical Center's Summer Research Program for Minority Premedical Students.
She said that as a result of her summer work she had definitely decided on a medical career, though definitely not as a surgeon. "I don't think I could do that all day," she said.
A professional cellist, she first majored in music and only decided on a premedical course last year. Accordingly, she has two more years of college at the University of California at San Diego, then eight years of professional training. Actually starting a permanent job as a physician is thus a long, long way off.
"It's a little too early to be seriously thinking about it," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: William McRae -- A summer associate at the Chadbourne & Parke law firm. "I heard some firms actually have cots and laundry service so you could basically sleep in the office to keep your billable hours up." (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Nick Lobel-Weiss -- An intern for the American League of Theaters and Producers. "There are people who have finished graduate school in theater management who can't find that $100-a-week job to start." (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); Brett Grossman -- An intern with Avrett, Free & Ginsberg advertising firm. "A job isn't going to fall in your lap, you're going to have to work on it, and you get a lot of rejection." (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Natika Smith -- Cornell University Medical Center's Summer Research Program. Though decided on a medical career, she has decided not to be a surgeon. "I don't think I could do that all day." (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Amy Luberto -- An accounting intern at KPMG Peat Marwick. "You're kind of a step ahead of people who didn't do one," she said of interns who were hired permanently by the same employers. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Series

TICKER: UK (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNION CARBIDE CORP (82%); AVRETT FREE & GINSBERG ADVERTISING INC (72%); KPMG LLP (66%); CHADBOURNE & PARKE LLP (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (83%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (83%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SURVEYS AND SERIES APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (93%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); SUMMER LAW ASSOCIATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); LAW PRACTICE (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); WRITERS (68%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



570 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Merchants Say Revival Bid Has Hurt, Not Helped

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MERIDEN, Conn., Aug. 17

 BODY:
John Butler's grandfather opened the family paint store here on June 25, 1876, the day Custer made his last stand at the Little Big Horn. Now it is the 58-year-old grandson who says he is making a last stand to keep Butler Paint open.
Mr. Butler and other downtown merchants say they are the victims of a $24 million redevelopment project that, instead of reviving downtown retailing, they say, has crippled it. 
 "We've been here 117 years," said Mr. Butler, "and we've been through depressions, floods and hurricanes, but nothing has disrupted our business more than this project."
Mr. Butler and other merchants were upset last year when road reconstruction and the installation of underground utility lines made most downtown streets impassable for more than six months. But they were furious when the city recently tore up the streets again to put in new sewer lines.
"Incompetence has ruled this project from the beginning," Mr. Butler said. "They tore up all the streets at the same time last year and nobody was able to get down here at all. Now, they do the same thing all over again."
With the streets closed and the sidewalks ripped up, customers stopped coming downtown and some stores closed. Those that survived say business has been cut almost in half. Many merchants say the project has ruined whatever chance they had to compete with the nearby Meriden Square Mall.
Worst of all, merchants say, the city and the redevelopment agency failed to recruit new business or promote downtown Meriden's coming renaissance, choosing to wait until the project was completed.
"The project has been just a big waste of money if they can't bring retail business back here," said Natale Ieraci, owner of the Harry Israel clothing store, which has been on West Main Street since 1904. Because of the recession and the construction work, Mr. Ieraci said business has been bad for three years. "It's been very depressing," he said. "It's never going to be the downtown it used to be."
Customers agreed.
"They can fix the streets, put up new lights and lampposts," said Janet Kwiatkowski, a lifelong Meriden resident, "but I hardly ever come down here because there's nowhere left to shop. There's just nothing here."
Randall Kamerbeek, executive director of the redevelopment agency, said both the city and agency believed it would be better to promote downtown Meriden after there was a finished product, adding that a promotional campaign will begin in the fall.
"When everything is finished, we believe the project will speak for itself and will draw businesses here," Mr. Kamerbeek said. "There have been delays on some aspects of the work, but the overall project is on schedule and in the end will bring people downtown."
 
Strategy Criticized
 But Carol Way, executive director of the Greater Meriden Chamber of Commerce, said the city and redevelopment agency made a big mistake in sitting by and watching as old businesses lost their customer base.
"I think the city should have built on its strengths, its existing businesses, rather than wiping the slate clean, which is the situation we are in now," Ms. Way said. "Their strategy was backward." Ms. Way also criticized the decision to hold off the marketing and promotion effort.
"If they had promoted it all along, they would have at least had some new businesses ready to go," she said. "But I think a good marketing program now can still work."
But it is too late for Gary Verdolini, the former owner of Verdolini's, a popular downtown restaurant that drew customers from around the state, until it was forced to close after a flood last year badly damaged a 200-year-old brick oven.
Mr. Verdolini, along with a group of other merchants, is suing the city. They say the project's construction work was a major factor in the downtown flood last June. They say the city's sewers became clogged because a storm drain was capped during the construction work.
City leaders deny that, insisting that Meriden's flooding problems have been constant throughout the years.
Mayor Angelo D'Agostino conceded the project has been poorly planned and badly managed. Still, he said, it had to be undertaken.
"We had antiquated utility lines and roads and we were losing business even before this construction, so something had to be done," he said.
The project was approved by the City Council in 1988 after years of debate, but work did not begin until 1990. When it is completed in October, the city plans to celebrate with a weekend of festivals, concerts and fireworks.
Downtown merchants say a funeral would be more appropriate.
Stephen M. Prescott, owner of the Justin Time Diner, on Colony Street, said that when he bought his business more than three years ago he should have given it another name.
"I should have called it the Just Too Late Diner, because that's the reality for me," said Mr. Prescott, who added that his business has been devastated by the project. "I'm down to zero employees. It's just me and my wife."
Mr. Butler, still standing outside his paint store, talked about the city's plans to celebrate.
"They're going to celebrate what? A lot of empty buildings and nobody on the streets," said Mr. Butler. "This is just a ghost town now after the way they completely mishandled things."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen M. Prescott, owner of the Justin Time Diner, on Colony Street in Meriden, Conn., said, "I should have called it the Just Too Late Diner, because that's the reality for me." Mr. Prescott is one of the many merchants who say business has suffered because of the $24-million redevelopment project, which includes a second road reconstruction to add new sewer lines. Instead of reviving West Main Street in Meriden, the continued construction has crippled the town. (Photographs by Steve Miller for The New York Times)
 
Map of Connecticut showing location of Meriden.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERIDEN (CONN); BUTLER PAINT STORE (MERIDEN, CONN)

ORGANIZATION: MERIDEN (CONN); BUTLER PAINT STORE (MERIDEN, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GRANDPARENTS (90%); PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); CITIES (71%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (71%); RECESSION (70%); WEATHER (70%); TRENDS (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN BUTLER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



571 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: Double Sword For President

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
For months it was a sleeper issue in the health care debate. But last week, after President Clinton's initial sales pitch for his plan-in-progress, his proposal that all employers be required to pay for health coverage emerged as one of the most fiercely contested aspects.
The employer mandate, as it is known, presents Mr. Clinton with a dilemma. This President certainly does not want to harm the hundreds of thousands of small-business owners who say, with backing from economists, that the proposal would cause job losses and bankruptcies. And he hardly wants to hand the Republicans a convenient club for attacking his proposals. 
 Yet the mandate is a cornerstone of his most cherished goal, the one that may earn him his place in history: guaranteeing health coverage for all the country's citizens.
 
Alternative Is More Taxes
 Mr. Clinton needs the tens of billions of extra dollars that companies would be forced to pay toward the cost of covering more than 37 million uninsured people, most of whom are workers and their families. As it is, the White House is struggling to find sources for the tens of billions of additional dollars it would need to subsidize threatened companies and cover the unemployed.
Without the large new contribution from employers, the Administration would have to come up with more money itself -- almost certainly through even higher taxes than the proposal already requires. Politically, that may be more dangerous than the wrath of small business.
But Mr. Clinton's dilemma is one faced by his Republican critics as well. If they do not support an employer health care requirement, they either have to come up with other revenue sources, not an appealing prospect, or back away from universal coverage. This may explain why critics like Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate minority leader, were careful to leave negotiating room on the mandate question.
In his speech to governors last week, Mr. Clinton spoke of a "shared responsibility of employer and employee, building on the system we have now" as the only practical route to universal coverage. His aides say he will propose that employers be required to pay at least 80 percent of the cost of premiums, with employees paying the rest.
 
To Be Phased In
 But Mr. Clinton also stressed the need to phase in the requirement gradually and to limit the obligations of struggling small or low-wage businesses. Officials have discussed putting a cap on the contributions of vulnerable companies to 3.5 percent of payroll, with the Government paying the rest. They have not yet determined the criteria for awarding subsidies, a task that could be an administrative nightmare.
Administration officials also note that if subsidies were offered to uninsured workers without a general employer requirement, many companies that now offer insurance might stop doing so, knowing the Government would fill the gap, and the entire system would unravel.
The debate assumes that the nation will base most health financing on the workplace. The chief alternatives -- a Government takeover of all medical payments, favored by some liberals, or a shift to individual responsibility, favored by some conservatives -- have so far been judged as either undesirable or unrealistic by the President and majorities in Congress.
Expanding employer coverage "is the most pragmatic and least disruptive way to go," said Karen Davis, an expert on health policy and executive of the Commonwealth Fund, a private foundation in New York.
 
System Emerged 50 Years Ago
 The employer-based system emerged during World War II, when companies offered health coverage in lieu of raises, which were prohibited by wage controls. Today, a majority of employers help pay for worker coverage, but many smaller companies, as well as larger companies like retail and fast-food chains that pay low wages, offer few benefits if any, especially to entry-level employees.
The first prominent proposal for mandating employer coverage came not from the Democrats but from President Richard M. Nixon in the early 1970's. His health plan died along with his Presidency, but similar mandates were later proposed by President Jimmy Carter and a succession of Democrats in Congress.
About three-fourths of the nation's workers are already covered by employers, either directly or through a working spouse. But a majority of companies with fewer than 100 employees do not offer health benefits, said William Custer of the Employee Benefit Research Institute in Washington.
The debate has been hampered by disagreement over cost estimates. The Administration estimates that in 1993 the nation's companies and workers will spend $275 billion on health premiums. Simply extending the current system to all workers would require additional outlays of close to $70 billion, which would be paid by employers, workers and Government through its subsidies.
But the new system will save such large sums through reduced administration and other changes that the cost of covering all workers will be far less than that, said Kenneth Thorpe, an official in the Department of Health and Human Services and an architect of the Clinton plan. Costly emergency-room visits for routine care by people with no insurance or doctor will also decline, he said. But Mr. Thorpe refused to disclose the Administration's working estimate of the ultimate costs.
The politics of the employer mandate are more convoluted than the chorus of attacks on Mr. Clinton last week would suggest. Leading Republicans in the Senate, where the battle over the health plan may be closest, have voiced deep concern about the mandate, but they have also been careful, as John H. Chafee of Rhode Island put it, "to avoid drawing lines in the sand."
Senator Dole, when asked whether he supported universal coverage, said, "I think that's our goal, but I'm not certain how quickly we can achieve it."
Asked how this could be financed without an employer requirement he said: "I'm not sure we have an alternative yet. There may be other ways to finance it." But Mr. Dole also said of Mr. Clinton's plan, to be unveiled more fully next month, "Let's see what he has to offer before taking shots at it."
 
What Business Prefers
 As an alternative to guaranteed universal coverage, some Republicans and other critics have discussed a more decentralized approach involving expanded public clinics, rules to reduce insurance costs and tax incentives to help the uninsured find coverage.
That is the approach of the National Federation of Independent Business, which lobbies on behalf of 600,000 small businesses and is leading the campaign against a mandate. "What we say is 'universal access,' " said Michael Roush, chief Senate lobbyist for the federation.
The federation is implacably opposed to a mandate, with or without subsidies, which, Mr. Roush said, "will only at best mitigate the bad effects."
A majority of the federation's members actually do offer health coverage to some employees, but in some cases it is less generous than what Mr. Clinton would require. Even many owners who now offer costly benefits tend to oppose any new Government requirement.
Still, Mr. Clinton will find considerable support for the mandate within the business community. The United States Chamber of Commerce, for example, which represents businesses of various sizes supports a mandate provided it is accompanied by adequate subsidies for small business.
"The chamber's view is that unless everybody in the health system is playing by the same rules, this nation is never going to get a grip on runaway health costs," said Kristin Bass, manager of human resources with the organization. She noted that as hospitals and doctors make up the costs of treating uninsured patients through excess charges to the insured, smaller companies that offer benefits are being penalized.
Large corporations, almost all of which provide health benefits, may provide the strongest support of all. These businesses say they are not only forced to help pay for the uninsured but also are unfairly saddled with the health costs of entire families when the spouse has a job without benefits.
"If it's going to be the policy of this country to rely on employers to finance health care, then it's got to be all employers," said Walter B. Maher, director of Federal relations for the Chrysler Corporation.
The experience of individual states provides ammunition to both sides. So far, only Hawaii has required insurance payments by employers, and only Hawaii has achieved near-total health coverage of its population.
Hawaii passed its mandate in 1974, a time when health costs were much lower. Businessmen there say the mandate has sometimes caused hardship but that in general employers have adjusted well. A recent study by state officials asserts that business has not suffered and notes that unemployment in Hawaii has fallen steadily since the 1970's while small businesses have thrived. But critics question Hawaii's relevance, given its isolation and strong economy.
On the mainland, the first state to vote for a mandate was Massachusetts, in 1988. But as the economy soured and a Republican Governor took office, small-business owners counterattacked and won a delay of the plan until 1995. Opponents are expected to make another push to delay or kill the plan.
Oregon passed an employer mandate that was originally scheduled to take effect in 1995. But as in Massachusetts, business opposition has grown, and this month the Legislature voted to defer the requirement until 1997. "If the economy turns sour I think the mandate could disappear," said Courtney S. Campbell, a medical ethicist at Oregon State University.
Earlier this year Washington State also passed an employer mandate but it will not be in full effect until 1999.


GRAPHIC: Health insurance status of workers aged 18-64 employed in each size company. Percentages.*
 
Uninsured
Graph: "Who's Covered in the Work Place"
 Size of company:
 Self-employed -- 22%
 Less than 10 -- 32%
 10-24 -- 25%
 24-99 -- 21%
 100-499 -- 13%
 500-999 -- 10%
 1,000 or more -- 9%
 
Covered by privately purchased insurance or public programs
 Size of company:
 Self-employed -- 31%
 Less than 10 -- 22%
 10-24 -- 17%
 24-99 -- 13%
 100-499 -- 11%
 500-999 -- 10%
 1,000 or more -- 11%
 
Covered by spouse's employer
 Size of company:
 Self-employed -- 26%
 Less than 10 -- 25%
 10-24 -- 21%
 24-99 -- 17%
 100-499 -- 15%
 500-999 -- 15%
 1,000 or more -- 12%
 
Covered by employer
 Size of company:
 Self-employed -- 24%
 Less than 10 -- 23%
 10-24 -- 40%
 24-99 -- 52%
 100-499 -- 63%
 500-999 -- 68%
 1,000 or more -- 71%
 
% of all workers ages 18-64 employed in each size company
 Size of company:
 Self-employed -- 10%
 Less than 10 -- 12%
 10-24 -- 8%
 24-99 -- 13%
 100-499 -- 14%
 500-999 -- 6%
 1,000 or more -- 38%
 
*Figures may not add to 100, because some workers are covered by more than one source of insurance and/or rounding.
 
(Source: Employee Benefits Research Institue) (pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SMALL BUSINESS INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); INSURANCE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



572 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Conquering the Rift on Puerto Rico;
Mainland Residents Stung by Exclusion From Vote on Island

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
For many years Puerto Rico's leaders paid but passing attention to people of Puerto Rican descent living on the mainland, making a few courtesy calls and campaign stops in the Northeast.
But that is changing. 
 Mainland residents of Puerto Rican heritage, including three members of Congress who played a major role recently in preserving corporate tax breaks for companies doing business on the island, have shown that they have influence and are willing to use it.
The result has been a tilt of power and a slow recognition by political leaders on the island that they must court their compatriots on the mainland. But many people in New York and elsewhere on the mainland, who retain close ties to the island and say they care deeply about its future, feel that recognition has been too slow in coming. As proof, they point to the island government's recent rejection of calls to allow mainland participation in the November vote about Puerto Rico's future political status.
 
A Changing Relationship
 "The relationship here in the past between both communities has been characterized on the part of Puerto Rico's leadership looking down on us as those poor, dark-skinned hillbillies who moved to the mainland and forgotten us," said Jose Luis Rodriguez, the head of a Hispanic cable television station in Manhattan who is active in Puerto Rican affairs.
"They conveniently establish relations with us when they feel their interests are at stake. If they helped us in any way, it was a coincidence."
In the non-binding vote, Puerto Ricans will choose among the island's continued status as a United States commonwealth, statehood or independence. But Congress will make the final decision.
After island officials decided against allowing voters on the mainland to participate, Hispanic politicians in New York decided to hold their own nonbinding vote on Oct. 6-8, a move that Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer said was a strong message to the island's leaders.
"We finally told them our vote and voice conveys enormous political and moral weight," Mr. Ferrer said. "It cannot be ignored. This is a message being sent to these folks that they need to understand."
Angelo Falcon, president of the Institute for Puerto Rican Policy in New York City, echoed the thought, noting that by the year 2000 the mainland and island Puerto Rican populations will be about equal. There are now about 2.6 million Puerto Ricans on the mainland; the island population is 3.7 million. "What is happening now is irreversible," he said. "What we're seeing now is a real changing relationship for the next few years. We've been invisible for a long time. We hope that will change."
In some ways, Gov. Pedro J. Rossello of Puerto Rico has gotten part of the message, as seen in a recent leadership conference among Hispanic leaders in San Juan and his more active courting of mainland Puerto Ricans and other Hispanic leaders. Also, he and other officials have sought help in lobbying for the tax breaks provided under Section 936 of the Internal Revenue code and have held regular meetings with the three members of Congress of Puerto Rican heritage, Nydia M. Velasquez and Jose E. Serrano of New York City and Luis V. Gutierrez of Chicago.
 
Integration of Leadership
 "There is an integration of the leadership in Puerto Rico and the Puerto Rican political leadership in the mainland," Governor Rossello said. "What I foresee here in the future is a strengthening and integration of agendas."
He added that while mainland residents will not participate in the island's November plebiscite, they will have an important role to play as the process unfolds in Congress. "There is no question that the Puerto Rican mainland community and the Hispanic community directly and indirectly, through their representatives in Congress, will be a major factor," he said.
An early sign of the growing political strength of mainland politicians could be seen five years ago, during the Democratic Presidential primary in New York. Gov. Rafael Hernandez Colon came to New York City's Puerto Rican neighborhoods to stump for Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts. He did so even though the city's Puerto Rican elected officials had already endorsed the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
Governor Hernandez Colon's endorsement typified the relationship that the island's politicians had with their counterparts here, said a number of observers who described the island's politicians as too long out of touch with the lives of their stateside countrymen.
That feeling was echoed again in 1990, when Puerto Rico's three political parties rejected the idea of allowing nonresidents of Puerto Rican heritage to vote in the plebiscite on the island's status. The reasons offered in opposition ranged from technical and logistical difficulties to questioning the "Puerto Rican-ness" of those who had left the island to seek economic opportunity on the mainland.
But many mainland residents rejected the reasoning, saying they hoped to return to the island eventually. That, combined with strong nationalistic feelings, leads them to conclude that having a say in the island's future is their birthright.
The recent lobbying effort to maintain the tax breaks, which included the gathering of 350,000 signatures on petitions in New York alone and a meeting between President Clinton and the three Puerto Rican members of Congress, laid the groundwork for political parity on fundamental issues affecting the island.
"It gave them a big lesson and might be part of a learning process for them to realize they have a big resource in us being in the Congress," said Ms. Velasquez.
Hector Cordero-Guzman, the research director for political economy at the Center for Puerto Rican Studies at the City University of New York, said increased numbers of Puerto Rican politicians at both the national and local levels have given the mainland residents the chance to have a new degree of influence.
"There is increased visibility among our elected officials, and they have been around longer with a measure of power and some impact on public policy," Mr. Cordero-Guzman said.
He and others noted that while mainland leaders were courted for support of the tax breaks, their exclusion from the plebiscite was sending mixed signals about the kind of relationship that island leaders want.
"They would ideally like an off-the-shelf lobbying effort, but they don't want anyone to tell them how to run their own house," Mr. Cordero-Guzman said.
He traced part of the reason to the backgrounds of political leadership here and on the island. Mainland politicians, he said, often have grass-roots origins; the island's leadership tends to come from social elites.
Nonetheless, a number of people noted that Governor Rossello has been cultivating people on the mainland to improve long-term political influence. In that respect, Mr. Serrano noted, Governor Rossello represents a departure from the past.
When Mr. Serrano was elected to the House, he said he took office not only representing his South Bronx district, but also Puerto Rico.
He said that Governor Rossello had a keen understanding of the role he and his Congressional colleagues could play. He speaks daily with a member of the Governor's office and has weekly conversations with the Governor.
"He knows he has entree into the Congressional Hispanic Caucus because of us, the Illinois delegation, the New York delegation," said Mr. Serrano, who is the chairman of the caucus.
Governor Rossello refers to Mr. Serrano and his Puerto Rican colleagues as his unofficial delegation.
"In that sense I feel very grateful to the Puerto Rican and Hispanic leadership that have adopted our causes and have become in essence advocates for those causes."
City Councilman Jose Rivera, Democrat of the Bronx, said that while he is not totally satisfied with the current relationship, he has seen some hopeful signs.
"It's a long struggle, letting the leaders in Puerto Rico know they have nothing to fear from the leaders in the United States," he said. "We're their brothers and sisters, and we feel as they do for Puerto Rico. We have a contribution to make."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Pedro J. Rossello, left, of Puerto Rico said, "What I foresee here in the future is a strengthening and integration of agendas," among those of Puerto Rican descent. As head of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Representative Jose E. Serrano of New York understands his role is to stay close to the island's issues. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. B7); People of Puerto Rican descent in metropolitan New York City and on the mainland care about the future of Puerto Rico. A youngster reached for the island's flag yesterday, at a Puerto Rican Day Parade in Jersey City. (het Gordon for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4424 COASTAL FREIGHT (92%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PUERTO RICAN AMERICAN INSURANCE CO (92%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ACQUISITION CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO CONTAINER CO (92%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CO (92%); PUERTO RICAN INSURANCE AGENCY INC (92%); PUERTO RICO SUN OIL CO (92%); PUERTO RICO SAFETY EQUIPMENT CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO TELEPHONE CO (92%); PUERTO RICAN DRYPERS CORP (92%); PUERTO RICAN CEMENT CO INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO; NEW YORK CITY PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS POLITICS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); CORPORATE TAX (56%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); ROSSELLO, PEDRO J (GOV); SERRANO, JOSE E (REPR) JOSE E SERRANO (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



573 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Star TV Extends Murdoch's Reach

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Aug. 21

 BODY:
Rupert Murdoch, the man who brought "The Simpsons" to an American television audience and satellite television to much of Britain, is on the verge of bringing both to tens of millions of viewers in Asia.
With his $525 million takeover last month of Star TV, Asia's pioneer satellite television service, Mr. Murdoch has bought himself at least the potential of reaching two-thirds of the world's population. And as a result, he is now close to creating the first truly global television empire. 
 Star's five satellite channels can be seen in 38 nations in Asia and the Middle East -- from Tokyo to Tel Aviv, from Mongolia to Malaysia, and all of China and India -- and can reach, by Star's estimate, 45 million people who have the necessary equipment.
Hong Kong-based Star, Mr. Murdoch's most important acquisition since his debt-restructuring crisis in 1990, completes the arc of a Murdoch television empire that also includes Fox Broadcasting in the United States and half-ownership in British Sky Broadcasting, the largest satellite service in Europe.
 
A Vast Asian Market
 Mr. Murdoch's willingness to risk half a billion dollars for a controlling stake in a two-year-old television service that has not turned a profit, and may not anytime soon, underscores the excitement in broadcasting circles about the possibilities of pan-Asian television.
"The potential in Asia is enormous," Mr. Murdoch said in announcing the deal for his News Corporation to buy 63.6 percent of Hutchvision Ltd., the parent company of Star. Hutchvision was founded by Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. and the family of the Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing.
John Kaye of the Survey Research Group, a Hong Kong-based media research firm, said that while it was too early to judge the price paid by Mr. Murdoch, "it's a reasonable risk he's taking if you bear in mind what everybody expects to happen in this part of the world -- a very large, growing population of people with disposable incomes."
Financial analysts say Mr. Murdoch will almost certainly use Star as a vehicle for rebroadcasting programs produced by Fox and Sky, including such popular American fare as "The Simpsons" and "Beverly Hills 90210," which are thought likely to attract the sort of young, affluent audiences that major advertisers covet as much in Hong Kong as they do in Houston.
 
Four Channels in English
 Star is currently available free to anyone with a satellite dish. Its advertisers include Coca-Cola, Citibank and McDonald's.
Four of the five channels are broadcast in English: MTV Asia, the Asian cousin of MTV, or Music Television; BBC World Service News, the British answer to CNN; a sports channel, and an entertainment channel that depends on syndicated programs from the United States, including Oprah Winfrey's talk show, and reruns of American series. The fifth channel features Chinese-language entertainment. A pay-television service, scheduled to begin later this year, plans eventually to show films in Cantonese and Mandarin, as well as Hindi, the principal language of India.
In only a few years, satellite television has created a revolution in popular culture across Asia -- a continent that is home to millions of people for whom a television set would be an unimaginable luxury, but also to some of the world's fastest-growing economies.
MTV Asia is a cultural phenomenon, altering the musical tastes and buying habits of tens of millions of middle-class Asian teen-agers who are bored by the much more limited offerings on local television. Millions of Asian adults now get their news from BBC World Service Television or from Cable News Network. CNN is not carried by Star; its signal is bounced off various satellites.
The news that such a powerful cultural tool is now in the hands of a Western businessman has already led one Asian leader to worry whether Asia is being subjected to a sort of mass-media colonialism.
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia suggested this month that Mr. Murdoch might have bought Star because he wanted "to control the news that we are going to receive" in Asia. If not, he said, why would Mr. Murdoch, a naturalized American citizen from Australia, have paid "such a fantastic price for a network that has never shown any profit?"
Mr. Murdoch has said through spokesmen that he has no intention of interfering in the political affairs of the nations that receive Star TV. In a statement released after Mr. Mahathir's remarks became public, the News Corporation said that it intended to make Star a service that "Asian families can enjoy in their homes" and one that Asian governments will consider both "friendly and useful."
Despite his soothing words, Mr. Murdoch is bound to come up repeatedly against Prime Minister Mahathir and others in the region who see satellite television as a threat to cultural values and political stability. Both Malaysia and neighboring Singapore ban most private ownership of television dishes. As a result, Star TV is not routinely seen in either country, although both nations allow their Government-controlled television networks to rebroadcast news programs from CNN.
 
A Jump on the Competition
 In acquiring control of Star, Mr. Murdoch has bought himself a head start of at least a year or two over several large television competitors that are now angling to enter the satellite market in Asia. Star is now the only large satellite network to reach all of Asia, including China and India. Its near-monopoly of Asian satellite capacity will end, however, when several new satellites are placed into orbit over the continent during the next few years.
Only days after Mr. Murdoch's announcement, Dow Jones & Company, the owner of The Wall Street Journal, said it would join with a group that planned to start Asia's first satellite business news channel. Its partners in the project include Tele-Communications Inc., the largest cable television company in the United States.
Star's most powerful rival may prove to be a consortium formed this year by the Turner Broadcasting System, the parent of CNN; Time Warner, parent of the year-old Home Box Office Asia; Capital Cities/ABC, majority owner of the ESPN sports channel, and TVB, the dominant television network in Hong Kong.
TVB, which stands for Television Broadcasts, is seen by financial analysts as the pivotal member of the group, since it controls the world's largest library of Chinese-language television programs, which are the key to television markets in Hong Kong, Taiwan and, most important, a vast potential audience in China.
"We produce about 5,000 hours of programming a year, and we've been in the business for 26 years, so we measure our library in tens of thousands of hours of programming," said S. K. Fung, general manager of TVB's international arm. "That's why we're valuable to our American friends. They see us as the locomotive that can pull a whole series of train cars along to the market."
Mr. Murdoch understands the value of that library, which was a major reason for his attempt to buy 22 percent of TVB earlier this year. The deal was put on hold after it appeared that the Hong Kong Government would not relax rules governing the ownership of local broadcasters by companies based outside Hong Kong.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The control room of Star TV, Asia's pioneer satellite television service recently taken over by Rupert Murdoch, who is now close to creating the first global television empire. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. D1); The operations base of Rupert Murdoch's Star TV satellite station in Hong Kong. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSY (LSE) (90%); NWS (NASDAQ) (85%); NWS (ASX) (85%); 0013 (HKSE) (83%); KO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (90%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (83%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (83%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (83%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (96%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (78%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: STAR TV FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC (90%); NEWS CORP (85%); HUTCHISON WHAMPOA LTD (83%); BBC WORLD SERVICE TELEVISION LTD (50%); COCA-COLA CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: STAR TV

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS ASIA (96%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (78%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES SATELLITE TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (83%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); 

PERSON: MURDOCH, RUPERT; SHENON, PHILIP KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (94%); LI KA-SHING (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



574 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Philadelphia's Newspapers Prepare for Possible Strike

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Aug. 22

 BODY:
Labor strikes have deprived residents here of their daily newspapers 11 times since 1970. The most recent walkout, in 1985, was the longest, lasting 46 days and costing the local economy millions of dollars through the loss of the city's principal channels of print advertising.
With 14 contracts for 10 unions expiring at midnight on Aug. 31, about 3,000 employees of the city's major dailies, The Philadelphia Inquirer and the tabloid Philadelphia Daily News, may be ready to walk again. So far, three unions have voted to authorize a strike. But this time, the publisher of both papers, Philadelphia Newspapers Inc., which is owned by the Knight-Ridder chain, intends no disruption of service. 
 For the last four weekends, managers have practiced publishing both newspapers. The company has also informed the unions that it will hire temporary replacement workers in some production areas.
"Obviously, we can't do it solely with our people," Charles Fancher, a vice president of Philadelphia Newspapers, said. "Some temporary help will be brought in but not as permanent replacements. We have no intention to do that. But we are prepared to publish even if all of them walk out."
With an average weekday circulation of 502,740 during the six months ended on March 31, The Inquirer was ranked as the 14th-largest daily newspaper in the country by Advertising Age magazine, based on figures from the Audit Bureau of Circulations. With weekday circulation of 197,481, The Daily News was ranked 57th.
While Pennsylvania law prohibits companies from retaining replacement workers hired during a labor dispute, union leaders say the tactic of hiring temporary workers is intended to weaken solidarity during tough economic times.
"Basically, this is a strike no one wants," said a member of the Newspaper Guild, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The Guild is the union for reporters, photographers and advertising employees. "Most unions don't want to go out. But it's the teamsters who are most threatened. They're the ones who could lose the most jobs."
Local 628 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents the newspaper's truck drivers, is concerned about changes in the newspapers' distribution system since the company opened a $300 million printing plant in the suburbs last year. Before the plant opened, drivers carried bundles of newspapers from the main building downtown to 65 warehouses in the metropolitan area; from those warehouses, distributors picked up the newspapers for delivery to local retailers.
With the new plant, Mr. Fancher said, the company was able to eliminate 19 warehouses. Also, some distributors now retrieve their own bundles directly from the plant. The company has not eliminated any jobs, but union officials say many drivers have had workweeks reduced to the point that they cannot qualify for health benefits. A teamsters local representing mailers, workers who combine sections of the newspaper at the plant, also argues that new technology has cost them work.
"This is a question of job security," said Joseph M. Lyons, president of the Philadelphia Council of Newspaper Unions, an umbrella organization that negotiates for all the unions. "You don't know where it's going to end. We have to stop the bleeding."
A big issue for the Guild, the largest union, with 1,100 members, is the classification of about 200 contributing reporters and photographers who are generally paid on a per-article basis. Mr. Lyons said many of them worked nearly as many hours as full-time employees but did not receive the same company-paid benefits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER; PHILADELPHIA DAILY NEWS PHILADELPHIA NEWSPAPERS INC (83%); MCCLATCHY CO (57%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (54%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER; PHILADELPHIA DAILY NEWS AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (54%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; LABOR; STRIKES; NEWSPAPERS STRIKES (91%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); WORK WEEK (77%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); SUBURBS (73%); TRUCK DRIVERS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); RETAILERS (69%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



575 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Junk Bond Sales Surge As Interest Rates Fall

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Sales of junk, or high yield, bonds -- those below investment grade -- have smashed last year's record sales less than eight months into 1993. And analysts and junk bond portfolio managers said that they expected the surge to continue.
So far this year, new issues of junk bonds have totaled $37.4 billion in the public market, compared with $37.3 billion last year. And when a new wave of private placements of these low-grade corporate debt instruments is added, the total for the year is already about $48 billion, according to the Duff & Phelps/MCM Investment Research Company. 
 A driving force behind the heavy sales is a country full of investors and fund managers who are scrambling for higher yields as interest rates plummet in the face of slow economic growth and low inflation. Even with some selling on Friday, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond is at 6.23 percent, just above its lowest level in 16 years, and the yield on the 10-year note is 5.61 percent, its lowest in more than 20 years.
 
Widening the Market
 The high yield bonds from companies at the top of the non-investment-grade ranks, those with credit ratings of BB and Ba, have already been received warmly. These are from companies like the News Corporation and the Turner Broadcasting System.
But the search for yields is now opening the market to companies, like Dal-Tile International, a leading producer of tiles, with much lower credit ratings -- in this case, the C level.
Six months or a year ago, Dal-Tile could not have sold a bond issue, said Margaret D. Patel, a senior vice president at Boston Security Counselors, a junk bond fund manager in Boston. In early August, however, it sold $133 million of senior secured five-year notes, although Ms. Patel said the prospectus made clear that the company did not have the resources to pay off the principal when the bonds matured. "Welcome to the junk bond market," she said.
On the issuer side, many companies are doing what homeowners, states, cities and towns are doing: paying off old, higher interest-rate debt with new lower-rate bonds.
 
Restrictive Loans
 In addition, a lot of companies are selling bonds so they can get out from under the restrictions that come with their current bank loans, said Kingman Penniman, the head of junk bond research at Duff & Phelps/MCM. Even with the sometimes higher interest rates on the bonds, the companies do not have collateral or cash tied up, and they do not have to pay back any of the principal borrowed until the bonds come due. Banks want some of the principal right away.
Ms. Patel said she thought the rally in junk bonds would continue. "I don't think there is a significant general risk in the junk bond market," she said. That would mean there is no threat of wide default, which is what killed the market at the end of the 1980's.
She said the spreads between the yields on junk bond issues and comparable Treasury securities have remained relatively wide and, therefore, still "signal a buying opportunity."
 
A Glut of Issues
 The risk, she said, "is on a credit- specific basis." In the rush of new issues, especially those with lower credit ratings, there are chances to make wrong choices. "There are so many issues coming that it is hard to go through and sort them out, even with a large staff," she said.
Kevin Mathews, portfolio manager of the Van Kampen Merritt High Yield Fund, said that in the last two or three weeks, the market had weakened because there were so many new issues coming to market while the supply of cash among investors had shrunk a little. Because of that, many issues had been sold at a higher yield, and thus a lower price, than the underwriters thought possible before the sales.
"Going forward, you are going to have to see the new-issue market get cheaper to get investors into it," he said. "So in the near term there is technical weakness, but in the longer term I am still bullish."
But Mr. Penniman said he was worried that the market was too high. "Are we starting to get close to a peak?" he asked. "I think so."
 
A Problem Signaled
 He said he was worried that the decline in interest rates, which is sending investors to the higher yields in the junk market, may be signaling a problem.
The decline in rates, he said, has come in part because traders and investors are expecting the economy to remain sluggish for a lot longer than many economists had forecast. Among those forecasters is Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, who predicted that growth in the second quarter would be about 2.5 percent to 3 percent. It could now wind up about 1 percent.
If the market is right and the economy is not picking up some momentum, that is bad for the companies that sell junk bonds, he said, because they need a revived economy to generate cash to keep them healthy.
"The high yield market depends on economic activity to maintain these credits," he said. "So, we don't say that Treasury yields going lower is necessarily good for the high-yield market."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (67%); NWS (ASX) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (67%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (67%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); NAICS327120 CLAY BUILDING MATERIAL & REFRACTORIES MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3253 CERAMIC WALL & FLOOR TILE (54%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (67%); DAL-TILE INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CORPORATE BONDS HIGH YIELD BONDS (95%); BONDS (93%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (79%); BOND ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



576 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Patents;
An energy clock to tell homeowners when to turn up or turn down the electricity.

BYLINE: By Teresa Riordan

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IF Norman E. Chasek's idea for monitoring electricity comes to full fruition, an energy clock will hang in every American home. Depending upon how much community-wide demand is being put on a household's electrical utility at any given time, green or red lights will light up.
"Three greens would mean now is a good time to use lots of electricity," Mr. Chasek said. "Three reds would mean it's time to turn off the air- conditioner." 
 An electrical engineer who lives in Stamford, Conn., Mr. Chasek, 64, received a patent last week for his "system for developing real time economic incentives to encourage efficient use of the resources of a regulated electric utility."
The patented process would save electric utilities from having to build new energy plants to meet temporary and erratic demand peaks, Mr. Chasek says, and it would ultimately reduce the cost of electricity.
"It doesn't throw out the regulators but it brings market forces to bear on the price of electricity," he said. "It also makes it possible to introduce conservation without penalizing the utilities."
Mr. Chasek referred to "time-of-day" rates that many utilities now use as a "crude" version of what his invention might achieve.
Under the patented process, which covers a software algorithm, consumers using energy during low demand periods would receive bonuses credited to their bill; those using energy at peak times would be severely penalized with surcharges.
"The price difference could get quite extreme," said Mr. Chasek, who added that the energy clock would be updated every hour of every day. "Eventually people would just get smart."
He said he hoped a commentary piece he has written for a coming issue of Public Utilities Fortnightly, an industry magazine, would stimulate interest in his idea among regulators.
Mr. Chasek, a full-time inventor, said he also had patented a traffic light system that responded in real time to traffic flow and an electronic turnpike card that eliminated the need for toll takers.
He received patent 5,237,507.
 
Blood Substitute To Cut Disease
 In an attempt to capture what is estimated to be at minimum a $1 billion blood transfusion market, about a half-dozen companies are aggressively developing red blood cell substitutes. Unlike human blood, such substitutes would not transmit AIDS, hepatitis and other yet-to-be discovered viruses.
Enzon Inc., a biotechnology concern in Piscataway, N.J., this month received a patent for its substitute, which it calls PEG-hemoglobin.
The substitute basically consists of bovine blood whose infinitessimally small molecules of hemoglobin, which release oxygen to the blood system, have been chemically glued to the inside of tiny, elongated plastic sheaths.
The plastic sheathing disguises the substitute's foreign nature from the transfusion recipient's immune system, according to Enzon's vice president of research and development, Dr. Robert G. L. Shorr. Dr. Shorr also said the plastic covering, by turning the hemoglobin into a "monster-size molecule," makes it more stable and prevents it from leaking through capillary walls or filtering through the kidneys.
"The beauty of this is that it delivers oxygen wonderfully," Dr. Shorr said. "It stays where it's supposed to be, does what it's supposed to do, and doesn't go where it's not supposed to."
Dr. Shorr said that in trials with dogs the substitute continued delivering oxygen for 120 hours after transfusion. The company plans to file an application with the Food and Drug Administration to begin human trials in 1994.
Enzon was assigned patent 5,234,903.
 
A 'Pocket Toilet' When It's Needed
 Whether it's on the freeway or in the city, the need to go to the bathroom sometimes occurs when no proper facility is conveniently at hand. Hence Brice Belisle's idea for a "pocket john."
"It works great," said Mr. Belisle, 59, an illustrator in Brooklyn who received a patent for the invention last week. "You can sit in a car and put a newspaper on your lap and no one will be the wiser."
The invention, which is meant to be used by men, is basically an expandable funnel-like plastic bag with a hole at the bottom which sits within a second bag that catches urine. For ease of handling, according to the inventor, a pair of finger grips flank the top of the device.
Once finished, users of the invention can remove a strip that covers a piece of double-sticky tape and securely close the opening.
"It's very waterproof," said Mr. Belisle, who suggested that the best place to use his invention in a congested area like Manhattan is in a phone booth.
Mr. Belisle said that he had had an initial batch of pocket johns, which will sell from $2 to $3 each, manufactured in Hong Kong and that he recently had received a small order from a catalogue company. He is currently trying to develop a version of his invention for women.
Mr. Belisle received patent 5,235,7095.
Patents are available by number for $3 from the Patent and Trademark Office, Washington, D.C. 20231.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ENZN (NASDAQ) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: ENZON INC ENZON PHARMACEUTICALS INC (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENZON INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: INVENTIONS AND INVENTORS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLOOD; TOILETS NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); PATENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (77%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); AIDS & HIV (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (66%); BLOOD DERIVATIVES (65%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); HEPATITIS (63%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (53%); 

PERSON: RIORAN, TERESA; CHASEK, NORMAN E; BELISLE, BRICE

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



577 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
It's a Question of Judgment, Not Zeal

BYLINE: By Alan Finder

 BODY:
HE still does not get it. Philip R. Michael was forced to resign as the New York City's Budget Director last Thursday after investigators concluded that he had shown favoritism toward a company trying to win a city contract. Mr. Michael maintains that he did nothing improper, and he said in his resignation letter that he was stepping down only because "some may think that the report reduces my effectiveness."
But this is what the Department of Investigation reported finding in its five-month inquiry: Mr. Michael met repeatedly with a company that was pursuing a lucrative city contract, and in a crucial meeting in November 1990, in front of the company's executives, he pressured the Transportation Commissioner, Lucius J. Riccio, to give the company a small, related contract. Mr. Michael said that if Mr. Riccio went along, he would ease budget cuts for Mr. Riccio's department. 
 And if that were not enough to raise questions about Mr. Michael's judgment, consider this: The company in question was Lockheed Information Management Services, which under a different name figured prominently in the city corruption scandals of 1986.
Most damaging of all, though, was the investigators' conclusion that Mr. Michael had not told the truth about the meeting with Mr. Riccio and Lockheed representatives. Mr. Michael denied that he had pressed Mr. Riccio on behalf of the company. But Mr. Riccio insisted that he had, and at least three people who were present backed up Mr. Riccio's version, the report said.
But Mr. Michael remains unrepentant, continuing to insist that he acted properly. In his letter of resignation on Friday, Mr. Michael told the Mayor: "It is clear I did nothing wrong and I am glad that you agree that my only 'sin' was seeking greater city revenues.
"Most other governments simply shrug each time they end a year out of balance; you made budget balance your highest priority," he continued. "For us to achieve this balance, in the face of a cumulative $8 billion gap, zealousness by the Budget Director becomes essential. For that zealousness, I make no apology.
"I never stepped over the line," he wrote. "There is no smoking gun here."
Mr. Michael is a decent man who has been in government for nearly two decades. He worked hard to keep the city's books balanced for four years during a brutal recession and anemic recovery. In fact, the investigators' report offered no evidence that in supporting Lockheed he was motivated by anything other than the desire to raise more revenue for the city.
He is understandably upset and defensive at being forced from office, and it is only natural that he should want to leave with his head held high.
But he apparently leaves without understanding why his judgment was called into question. The city investigators concluded that he ignored the appearance of impropriety and showed favoritism by promoting Lockheed, which had promised to increase the amount of unpaid parking fines the city collected by $100 million a year. That was surely a powerful lure for a budget director desperate to avoid layoffs of city workers or tax increases.
Mr. Michael crossed the line, the investigators decided, by pressing not just for contracting out, or "privatizing," the parking bureau's operations, but also for pushing a particular company. There is no indication in the report that he sought any personal gain or that his intervention helped Lockheed win the contract, valued at $150 million to $200 million over five years.
Mr. Michael was hardly the only official found by the investigators to have blurred ethical distinctions. Ellen Baer, the chief of staff for the First Deputy Mayor, Norman Steisel, met several times with Lockheed officials to talk about a possible job before recusing herself from the deliberations over the contract.
Agapito Diaz, an assistant transportation commissioner, sat on the interagency committee that selected Lockheed for the $150 million contract without telling anyone that he was a close friend of the vice president in charge of Lockheed's New York office, Kevin T. Smyley. When Marvyn Bryson, a parking bureau contract manager, was overseeing a small keypunch contract that Lockheed won in 1992, Mr. Smyley treated him to lunch four times.
These actions, disclosed in the investigators' report, show a disturbing inattention to ethical standards, although it appears that none of the actions was a crime.
And so the Mayor, running for re-election and engaged in damage control, was probably right when he insisted on Friday that the actions described in the report did not represent the kind of "corruption scandal" that wracked city government seven years ago. He then dismissed the officials' actions as mere "overzealousness" by people working hard to prevent New Yorkers from having to pay higher taxes.
But at stake, Mr. Dinkins's critics argue, were more important things, like the appearance of fairness and propriety. The critics, including the Mayor's Republican-Liberal opponent, Rudolph W. Giuliani, will no doubt continue to hammer away at the point, contending that Mr. Dinkins, like Mr. Michael, still does not get it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES CO; PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU (NYC) LOCKHEED INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOCKHEED INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES CO; PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; CONTRACTS; ETHICS GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); SCANDALS (75%); CORRUPTION (73%); ETHICS (72%); EVIDENCE (70%); POLITICS (65%); PARKING OFFENSES (59%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN; MICHAEL, PHILIP R (DIR)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



578 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: New Guidelines for S.& L.'s Require Extra Capital

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22

 BODY:
Federal regulators expect to issue new rules this week requiring savings and loan associations to maintain extra capital to keep them from going broke when interest rates shift unpredictably, according to Administration officials.
The rules are among the most important regulations called for by Congress in response to the costly wave of bankruptcies in the 1980's, when many savings and loans found themselves paying higher interest on deposits than they received for mortgages and other loans. The ensuing crisis has cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars. 
 Officials of the Office of Thrift Supervision, in a briefing Thursday, said that most savings and loans had repaired their portfolios in recent years by issuing more short-term and adjustable-rate mortgages and by hedging their bets on the future direction of interest rates.
 
Interest Rate Risk Down
 Because of these changes, agency officials said, only 6 percent of all savings institutions now have above normal levels of interest rate risk and must adhere to the new capital guidelines.
Of those 125 institutions, 103 already have enough capital on their books to comply with the new rules, and the remaining 22 have until the end of 1994 to raise the necessary capital, which is estimated to be less than $100 million under current conditions. So the strain on the financial system from the new rules is considered to be negligible.
"The risk has been coming down consistently since 1991," when the thrift supervision office first introduced its model used to calculate the risks to portfolios from interest rate shifts, John Robinson, director of policy at the agency, said. "I'd like to think that the spotlight we have placed on the issue has encouraged this. We have been harping on it."
Other agencies that regulate banks are also developing regulations on interest rate risk, but the Office of Thrift Supervision rules are especially important because the savings and loans, which typically borrow short term and lend long term, are the most likely to suffer from changes in interest rates.
 
Data on Loans and Deposits
 The agency is already collecting data from the industry about the loans and deposits in each institution's portfolio, and its examiners will run the calculations for each institution to see what might happen if interest rates moved two percentage points in either direction.
It has taken the agency four years to develop the model it will use to monitor interest rate risks.
 
Providing Extra Capital
 If the model shows that the value of a portfolio would decline by more than 2 percent of the institution's assets, the savings and loan would have to set aside extra capital against the risk.
The purpose is not to eliminate the risks of such changes -- that would be pointless in an industry whose livelihood is made on the spread between interest rates on loans and deposits.
Rather, by requiring institutions to add capital to their balance sheets when risks are found by the model to be above normal, the rules are intended to insure that the savings and loans can absorb the financial shock of interest rate fluctuations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (57%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (57%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS SAVINGS & LOANS (95%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



579 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Cavalry for Soviet Borders?

 BODY:
A lively controversy rages inside and outside the Clinton Administration over what role America should play in the messy military conflicts now igniting the periphery of the former Soviet Union. Several of these conflicts directly involve Russian troops.
Next month the Administration plans to outline its formal policy as part of the guidelines it has promised on contributing U.S. military forces to future United Nations peacekeeping operations. Already Washington has assigned a senior diplomat to lead a high-profile American drive to achieve negotiated solutions to these conflicts. 
 Warfare that involves Eurasia's mightiest military machine outside Russia's lawful borders is certainly a matter for serious American concern. But military or even aggressive diplomatic intervention is the wrong response. The U.S. can contribute more constructively by focusing its efforts on the slow slog of Russian reform rather than the high drama of crisis management.
Bloody conflicts in the Caucasus and Central Asia were all too predictable. The political structures of a continental empire Russia acquired over four centuries was instantly shattered when the Soviet Union broke up in December 1991. Now, pro- and anti-Moscow factions fight to control newly independent states whose politics, demographics and boundaries were long manipulated to serve Russian needs and whims.
In Azerbaijan, Georgia and Tajikistan, where the worst fighting now rages, independence abruptly arrived when no national political leaders were in place except for compromised Soviet apparatchiks or inexperienced nationalist and religious dissidents. Worse still, no effective national armies yet existed, leaving the field open to Russian units of the old Soviet armed forces and the undisciplined bands of rival local warlords.
There is a case for a transitional Russian military presence in these former Soviet republics, and a far stronger case for guaranteeing the basic rights of the ethnic Russian populations now stranded beyond Russia's borders.
But there is no justification for political meddling by Russian military units in the domestic politics of independent states. Most of this meddling comes at the behest of ultranationalist political opponents of Boris Yeltsin and their military allies in units stationed in the Caucasus and the Central Asian republics.
Washington should speak out forthrightly when Russian military moves trespass on sovereignty and international law, without fearing that such criticism would somehow undermine the Yeltsin Government.
Nationalist emotion is a powerful factor in Russian politics. But if the United States and other Western countries carefully and consistently remind Russians that failure to play by the international rules could isolate Russia, they could reinforce the arguments of Moscow's more sophisticated political leaders that new imperial wars are the last thing the country's strained economy now needs.
On the other hand, the dispatch of American troops, even under a U.N. flag, and highly publicized U.S. mediation efforts would almost surely be seen by many Russians as humiliating and provocative.
America's most vital interest in the former Soviet Union is the survival and health of a responsible, reforming government in Moscow. That interest is best advanced by generous and consistent support for economic and political reforms in Russia itself -- not by a grandiose, self-assigned role patrolling the troubled imperial frontier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); GEORGIA (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); GEORGIA (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; EDITORIALS; MILITARY ACTION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ARMIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



580 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Capital for Human Services

BYLINE: By Carol Moseley-Braun; Carol Moseley-Braun, Democrat of Illinois, is a member of the Senate Banking Committee.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In East St. Louis, Ill., one of the nation's poorest communities, the doors of a new Family Support Center will open in a few weeks. Infants and preschoolers from very low-income families will receive high-quality, subsidized child care, enabling the parents to become or remain employed. At the same location, parents will receive health-care services, parenting training and educational opportunities.
This initiative was made possible because capital improvement dollars were available from the Illinois Facilities Fund, a private, nonprofit lender, to help construct the facility. Throughout Illinois, the need for capital to bring or expand human services in poor neighborhoods is acute. These services, whether for the elderly, the disabled or infants of working mothers, are an integral part of any economic development plan. 
 A lack of credit for providers is clearly limiting the availability of child care. But examples in Illinois and across the nation demonstrate how nonprofit, private lenders can help resolve that problem.
The Illinois Facilities Fund, financed by foundations and banks, makes below-market real estate loans to nonprofit human service agencies unable to obtain traditional financing. The fund has made loans to 23 child-care centers for expansion of services to low-income families. Similar efforts through other nonprofit leaders, like the Child Care Capital Investment Fund in Boston and the Self-Help Development Bank in North Carolina, have proved that nonprofit lenders are excellent partners in child care.
Traditional bank loans don't often work because of the special-use nature of child-care facilities and the need for appraisals that exceed the loan amount, among other reasons. More important, nonprofit child-care is experiencing tremendous growth. It is already underfinanced, with the Government subsidy for low-income families covering only about 75 percent of the cost of the service. This means fund-raising and other income are paramount. Nonprofit lenders are more sensitive to these factors and better able than commercial institutions to structure loans accordingly.
The Illinois Facilities Fund has taken its involvement in child care a step further: last year, it borrowed $13 million through the tax-exempt bond market and is now building seven child-care centers that it will own, including the one in East St. Louis. The bonds sold easily because, while the bond markets are just as profit-driven as the banks, there are different credit tests and regulators.
The repayment will come from the general revenue of the State of Illinois, topping off an innovative financing with one of the most creative partnerships I have ever seen.
Recognizing the need for investment in communities like East St. Louis, and the role played by nonprofit lenders, President Clinton has proposed the Community Development Financial Institutions Act of 1993 to help expand organizations like the Illinois Facilities Fund.
These lenders can do what even banks committed to community development cannot do -- meet the needs of marginal, nonprofit enterprises. With more capital, they can expand lending. The committed public-private-philanthropic partnership they represent offers real opportunity in community development.
In East St. Louis, some poor children will get a better start in life. Some parents can brighten their futures. And we can help more people like them, people who desperately want to help themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FAMILY SUPPORT CENTER (ILL); ILLINOIS FACILITY FUND CAPITAL INVESTMENT STRATEGIES (55%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILY SUPPORT CENTER (ILL); ILLINOIS FACILITY FUND NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ILLINOIS, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAMILY SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BOND MARKETS (87%); BONDS (87%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PARENTING SUPPORT (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); PARENTING (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (63%); TAX LAW (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); 

PERSON: MOSELEY BRAUN, CAROL (SEN) BILL CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



581 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Are We Willing to Pay Price in Somalia?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Back to Basics in Somalia" (editorial, Aug. 10) concludes that the United States should get back to its basic "peacekeeping mission" in that East African country. This is at best naive, as Ronald Reagan may have learned when he folded his tents after having lost more than 300 marines in one blast in Lebanon. 
 Land a military force in a country where bullets are flying, and some of those bullets will fly at you. If the United States cannot project and accept an allowable number of casualties, and also be prepared to attack the cause of those casualties aggressively, it had better keep its soldiers at home.
A true United Nations-United States commitment to assisting the birth of true democracy in Somalia may entail 25 30 years of involvement; in effect, a period of benign colonialism during which complete disarmament, education, restructuring of the government and an overhaul of the country's economy can shape a new generation of Somalis.
Such a commitment is possible, and it could be the finest hour of the United Nations to date. But all members of that organization should share in the sacrifice -- including lives lost.
 
BUD GEISENHEIMER
Fort Lee, N.J., Aug. 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: SOMALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); LEBANON (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOMALIA SOMALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); LEBANON (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; EDITORIALS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); 

PERSON: GEISENHEIMER, BUD RONALD REAGAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



582 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1804 words

HEADLINE: Last Call to Arms on the Trade Pact

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22

 BODY:
Just a week after trade ministers from Canada, Mexico and the United States struck labor and environmental deals related to the North American Free Trade Agreement, members of Congress and interest groups from across the nation are choosing sides, rallying grass-roots supporters and churning out press releases.
U.S.A.-Nafta, a coalition of 2,300 businesses that support the pact, sent executives to meet members of Congress in their home districts this week. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. mailed 1,500 letters to state and local union leaders on Friday, telling them that the labor and environmental side agreements would not protect workers. It assembled for mailing another 700 packages of bumper stickers, balloons, pamphlets, buttons and petitions. Ross Perot, the Texas businessman and Presidential aspirant, made a swing through New York and Pennsylvania over the weekend, condemning the agreement in speeches as an arrangement to ship American jobs to Mexico. 
 The trade agreement, if approved by a simple majority of both houses of Congress, would gradually eliminate trade and investment barriers from the Arctic to Mexico's southern border.
Speaker of the House Thomas S. Foley, Democrat of Washington, said this morning on the NBC progam "Meet the Press" that there was "a significant majority of House Democrats probably against it or at least tending against" the pact. The Administration is counting on three-quarters of House Republicans and a third of House Democrats to pass the trade agreement.
President Clinton summarized the arguments for the pact on Thursday, when he tapped William M. Daley, a Chicago lawyer and banker, to head an interagency task force to push the agreement.
"By raising the incomes of Mexicans, which this will do, they'll be able to buy more of our products and there will be much less pressure on them to come to this country in the form of illegal immigration," the President said. "I think this will be a very stabilizing, economically healthy agreement."
Mr. Perot gave a very different view of the agreement on Wednesday, when he announced that he had written a book critical of the trade pact. "The real purpose of Nafta is not to promote trade but to protect U.S. and foreign corporations that want to locate their factories in Mexico, exploit low-wage Mexican workers and ship products into the rich U.S. market," he said in a statement.
The key players in the political struggle fall into three broad categories: advocates, fence-sitters and opponents. Here is a brief look at who they are:
 
Advocates -- After months of ambiguity last year, President Clinton said on Oct. 4, 1992, that he would put the trade agreement into law if side deals could be struck on several issues, mainly involving the protection of workers and the environment.
White House political operatives have been been unenthusiastic about this autumn's fight in Congress. But officials said this spring that it had been decided that dodging the fight would give the appearance of another broken campaign promise. The President's top aides in the effort are Mr. Daley and Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, two politically astute corporate lawyers who are quickly learning about trade policy.
Senator Bill Bradley, Democrat of New Jersey, and Senator John C. Danforth, Republican of Missouri, have been the most outspoken advocates of the pact in the Senate, where critics and supporters alike believe approval is fairly likely. Representative Robert T. Matsui, Democrat of California, and Representative Jim Kolbe, Republican of Arizona, are holding meetings of pact supporters in the House.
A big problem for supporters has been turmoil in the ranks of the wealthy corporate backers of the pact.
For the last two years, James D. Robinson 3d of the American Express Company and Kay R. Whitmore of the Eastman Kodak Company have been the most visible executives advocating the deal.
But both men have been ousted by their boards this year, following investor dissatisfaction with stagnant share prices, not with the trade agreement.
Mr. Robinson remains with American Express as a consultant, while Mr. Whitmore is staying on as chairman, chief executive and president of Kodak until a replacement can be found.
Opponents, worried about job losses from the pact, have been quick to point to the coincidence. "For me, this is a metaphor for Nafta," said Mark A. Anderson, the director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Task Force on Trade. "Get associated with Nafta and get fired."
Gradually replacing the two executives as the pact's chief business advocate has been Jerry R. Junkins, the chairman, chief executive and president of Texas Instruments Inc. He has replaced Mr. Robinson as chairman of the trade and investment task force of the Business Roundtable, a group of about 200 chief executives who hold periodic meetings and who set up U.S.A.-Nafta.
 
Fence-Sitters -- Some wavering Democrats have kept their own counsel, while others have agonized in public.
The quietest key player has been Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who heads the Senate Finance Committee, which must handle the agreement first. Senator Moynihan, who is up for re-election next year, criticized the deal during the Presidential campaign last year, warning that Mexico's tarnished human rights record made it a poor trade ally. But this year, with a Democrat in the White House, he has been virtually silent, saying only that he will hold hearings on the labor and environmental deals when they become available.
The noisiest actor in the drama is Senator Max S. Baucus, the chairman of the Environment Committee and the Finance Committee's trade panel. After months of speeches dissecting the environmental issues of the trade pact in greater depth than any other politician, Mr. Baucus tentatively endorsed the labor and environmental deals a week ago while cautioning that he would want to read the fine print.
The most important fence-sitter is Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the majority leader and Missouri Democrat, who commands tremendous influence among House trade hawks because he ran for President in 1988 on a platform of confronting Japan on trade. Mr. Gephardt very publicly dismissed the side agreements as unacceptable when they were released. But Mr. Gephardt has continued to talk to Administration officials since then about possible compromises that may allow him to support the deal.
"I still have high hopes that things that will happen between now and the time the implementing legislation is presented to Congress in several weeks will persuade him to support this," President Clinton said on Thursday.
 
Opponents -- The free-trade agreement's foes are numerous but have yet to form a united front. Labor unions and liberal consumer, religious and environmental groups have been reluctant to join forces with Ross Perot and his political organization, United We Stand America.
Mr. Perot paid for a half-hour advertisement on national television during the Memorial Day Weekend that attacked the North American Free Trade Agreement. After criticizing the President's budget package during the summer, he has recently begun to make speeches again about the agreement.
The umbrella group for liberal opposition is the Citizens Trade Campaign and is led by Jim Jontz, who served three terms in Congress as a Democratic representative from northern Indiana. One of the group's most visible and financially generous backers has been Public Citizen, a consumer advocacy group founded by Ralph Nader. Public Citizen worries that the pact will allow American food and product safety regulations to be challenged as illegal trade barriers.
Lori M. Wallach, trade policy director at Public Citizen, has been the most outspoken lobbyist and spokeswoman for the campaign. Public Citizen has filed a lawsuit, which has been joined by two other groups opposed to the free-trade agreement, seeking to require an environmental impact statement on the agreement from the Administration, which could take many months to produce.
A Federal judge ruled in favor of Public Citizen in July, but the Justice Department has filed an appeal. A decision is due in late September.
Unions have played a very limited role until now, with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. refusing to take a position until the side agreements were completed. The labor organization has now condemned the pact.
The liberal opposition has tried to portray the Clinton Administration as unfaithful to its Democratic roots. Ms. Wallach said in a statement on Thursday that, "Mr. Daley's job is to organize the religious right, the Council on Foreign Relations and chemical company C.E.O.'s to defeat the Democratic base by shoving a bad trade agreement through Congress over growing public opposition."
 
 
 
BATTLE LINES IN A NEW TRADE WAR
 Though his political advisers told him it was a non-starter, President Clinton has made the North American Free Trade Agreement a primary goal. The pact must be approved by majorities in both houses of Congress, where legislators and lobbyists are choosing sides.
 
FOR THE AGREEMENT
 
The Administration:
Mickey Kantor -- U.S. Trade Representative -- Learned fast about trade.
William Daley -- White House Nafta coordinator -- Neophyte; useful labor ties.
Lloyd Bentsen -- Treasury Secretary -- Texan, carries weight with Congress.
The Congress:
Odds are good for Senate passage. Look for trench warfare in the House.
Representative Robert T. Matsui -- California Democrat -- Leading Nafta push
Jim Kolbe -- Arizona Republican -- Collecting GOP votes.
The Governors:
Ann Richards -- Texas -- Says her state needs Nafta.
Tommy G. Thompson -- Wisconsin -- Says pact will grow Rust Belt jobs.
Business: Corporate America is Nafta's biggest fan.
Jerry R. Junkins -- CEO, Texas Instruments
Kay Whitmore -- Outgoing CEO of Kodak
Jim Robinson -- Ousted CEO of American Express. (Is Mr. Junkins watching his board?)
 
ON THE FENCE: VOCAL
 
Representative Richard A. Gephardt -- Majority Leader -- Must choose: his President or his hawkish trade instincts.
Senator Max S. Baucus -- Montana?? Democrat -- Worries about the environment.
 
ON THE FENCE: QUIET
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan -- New York Democrat -- Mexico's one-party rule makes him uneasy.
 
AGAINST THE AGREEMENT:
Ross Perot -- Texas billionaire -- Sees jobs draining south.
Brent Blackwelder -- Friends of the Earth -- Environmental worries.
Tom Donahue -- Secretary-treasurer, AFL-CIO -- Members fear lost jobs.
Jim Jontz -- Heads Citizens Trade Campaign -- Members range from farmers to religious groups
Lori Wallach -- Heads Public Citizen -- The Naderites.
Representative David E. Bonior -- Michigan Democrat, Majority Whip

CORRECTION-DATE: August 25, 1993, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article and a chart in Business Day on Monday about lobbying for and against the North American Free Trade Agreement misstated the occupation of James D. Robinson 3d, listed as a supporter of the agreement. Mr. Robinson, who resigned amid criticism as chief executive and chairman of the American Express Company, is not a consultant to the company. The chart also misidentified Lori M. Wallach. She is the trade policy director of Public Citizen, not its head.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); ARCTIC (58%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); AFL-CIO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); AFL-CIO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA; MEXICO UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); ARCTIC (58%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); IMMIGRATION (71%); PETITIONS (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BRADSHER, KEITH BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993



583 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: United Way In Warnings On Fund Cuts

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN TELTSCH

 BODY:
Because of an $8 million shortfall in its fund-raising campaign this year, United Way of New York City has advised many of the 400 human-services agencies it helps that they should expect cuts in support of about 17 percent.
As result, the heads of several agencies have said they will press for a review of how United Way of New York distributes its money, as well as the policy that allows donors to designate what charities and areas they would like their money to go to. 
 In one instance, an agency head has suggested that he might sue the United Way affiliate over how it distributes funds.
The dispute over how the money is distributed comes at an awkward time for United Way. While it was able to raise $27 million from foundations, wealthy individuals and Federal, state and local governments for special programs, like those to combat drug abuse and to try to keep students from dropping out of school, it faced an $8.2 million decline in money from other sources.
 
Impact of Shortfall
 Lawrence Mandell, the executive vice president, said the shortfall means there will be only about $40.6 million available from fund-raising campaigns to be shared by the 400 human-services agencies and hospitals that traditionally benefit from the fund drives, like the Urban League, the Children's Aid Society and the Brooklyn Catholic Charities.
But on the other side of the ledger, he said, is the expansion of what United Way calls brokered programs -- those that the organization operates with other groups. The $27 million it raised in these programs, plus the money raised in its traditional fund-raising campaigns, will allow United Way to report total revenues of $91 million for its latest campaign.
One such program benefits Iris House, a residence in East Harlem for women with H.I.V. infection. The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation of Princeton, N.J., will give $325,000 in the next three years for the program, which likely will be the first in New York solely for women. United Way of New York City will give $105,000 over three years, and smaller sums will come from the Aaron Diamond Foundation, the Sisters Fund, the New York Women's Foundation, the Fund for the City of New York and the Manhattan Borough President's office. Like Iris House, many of the brokered programs involve emerging agencies that are not already under the United Way umbrella.
The drop in fund-raising totals in New York City echoed results from most of the country. The 1,400 United Way campaign locations around the country averaged a 4.1 percent decline, the first dip since World War II, national United Way officials said.
 
Faltering Economy
 But the results were not as devastating as predicted earlier, said Elaine L. Chao, who became the national president of United Way last year after William Aramony, who was forced out amid allegations of extravagance and mismanagement. And while officials had worried that the allegations would cause donations to fall, they said the main reason for the shortfall seemed to be the faltering economy and sizing down by companies. Seventy percent of the New York United Way's funds come from corporations and their employees.
"Of course, we hoped to do better," said Ms. Chao, "but the results were not bad at all, given the business losses at companies with at least 1,000 employees, which are so important in the campaign." She said Omaha and Orlando, Fla., and a few other cities had successful campaigns. The national total was about $3.04 billion, down from $3.17 billion a year earlier.
"When the pool of money is shrinking, people look for reasons," she said, referring to complaints from a some agencies about their reduced funds from United Way of New York.
Some of the complaints have focused on United Way's role in "brokering" arrangements, saying they likely would distract United Way from its main mission. Others have centered on the growing national trend across the country to give donors freer options to designate contributions to favored charities, like environmental or advocacy groups, and not limiting them to organizations providing human services.
Luis A. Miranda Jr., president of the Hispanic Federation of New York City, said donor choice programs were a disservice to agencies created to help minorities. Distribution of funds should be based on need, with every agency given a chance to plead its case, he said.
"If minority agencies do not receive a fair share, there will be many hands knocking at corporation doors," he said. "It will be a mess."
Mr. Miranda said he was considering legal action over the cuts. The Hispanic Federation, a relative newcomer representing 53 organizations, received nearly $1 million last year from United Way.
Leaders of United Way of New York City say they have seen signs that an increasing number of donors working in the city but residing in the suburbs have used the choice option to direct their gifts to charities in their home communities.
"If you are working here and residing in the suburbs, some money should stay here," said Ralph Dickerson Jr., president of United Way of New York City. "You cannot get on a train and ride away from the problems of the city. It is the hub, and the vitality of the region requires it remain viable."
Many of the agencies share this view, objecting that a polarization of urban and suburban communities has been encouraged by United Ways of Tri-State, the regional organization that conducts fund-raising campaigns at 164 of the region's largest corporations in New York, Connecticut and New Jersey.
Tri-State was created 12 years ago to coordinate fund raising at companies that operated at several locations in the region. Funds from its campaigns are now shared by 31 local United Way organizations, which recently reaffirmed their ties to Tri-State. Two others dropped out earlier.
Tri-State enables corporate employees to choose which United Way charities receive their donations, said Betty Beene, president of Tri-State. "We provide donor choice as a service to companies," she said.
United Way of New York City gets the largest share of funds collected from the 164 companies in the Tri-State effort, this year receiving $32.7 million, down about $5.6 million from the year before. To compensate for the decline, the New York City affiliate received an additional $800,000 from Tri-State's reserves.
Several agencies that receive United Way money say they want a full-scale review of fund-distribution practices, including an evaluation of relations with Tri-State and the arrangement under which United Way of New York City shares campaign proceeds with the American Red Cross, the American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association and the Salvation Army.
Together, the four will share 35 percent of the $40.6 million collected this year, with the rest going to the 400 human-services organizations.
These sharing agreements with the four well-established charities were made years ago and are no longer applicable to today's conditions, said Philip Coltoff, executive director of the Children's Aid Society, adding, "If no re-evaluation takes place, agencies may be forced to consider whether maintaining their United Way ties is in their long-term interest."
Shrinking resources have underscored the need of smaller agencies to diversify their sources of funds and not be dependent solely on United Way, he said. "Any agency largely dependent on United Way for financing will be in deep trouble in the next few years," he said.
 
Plans for Retrenchment
 Because of the prospects of reduced financing, some human services agencies have already made plans for retrenchment. Brooklyn Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Brooklyn plans to eliminate 11 positions and may have to make more cuts, said Thomas De Stefano, the charity organization's executive director. The charity, reaching 500,000 clients in Brooklyn and Queens, provides child and nursing-home care.
The Urban League of New York may have to close offices in the Bronx and Staten Island, said Dennis Walcott, its president. The offices provide referral services for people who have been evicted or require medical or other assistance.
Tri-State, reacting to the allegations of extravagance directed at United Way of America and Mr. Aramony, has moved to trim its budget. It also will move out of its quarters at 99 Park Avenue in Manhattan to rent-free space offered by Chemical Bank, an annual savings of $295,000.
"The United Way system is going through painful changes at a time when giving is down," said Ms. Beene of Tri-State. "The reality is that donor companies have demanded donor choice. Not to respond puts at risk our ability to raise maximum funds for people in need in our region."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: UNITED WAY OF NEW YORK CITY; HISPANIC FEDERATION OF NEW YORK CITY

ORGANIZATION: UNITED WAY OF NEW YORK CITY; HISPANIC FEDERATION OF NEW YORK CITY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; PHILANTHROPY FUNDRAISING (91%); CHARITIES (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); WOMEN (86%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); DRUG POLICY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); WORLD WAR II (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (53%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: TELTSCH, KATHLEEN; MIRANDA, LUIS A JR ELAINE CHAO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1993



584 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
WATER FOR DESPERATE SARAJEVO
A shortage of potable water has been a critical problem in Sarajevo since the war shut down pumping stations last summer. With the cease-fire, United Nations engineers and aid groups are restoring service. A1
 
War and want have turned Belgrade sour and fearful. A6
 

Another U.S. official resigns over Bosnia policy. A6
 
NICARAGUA CRISIS CONTINUES
A hostage crisis in Nicaragua dragged on as rightist former rebels in the north and leftist former soldiers in the capital both refused to free most of the politicians and others they are holding.A3
 
A.N.C. DESCRIBES ITS OWN ABUSES
The African National Congress published a report detailing torture and death in its military camps in the years of guerrilla war against South African apartheid. A2
 
POLICY SHIFT IN JAPAN
In his first major policy address, Japan's new Prime Minister pledged a fundamental reshaping of what he described as the corrupt electoral system and stronger efforts to reduce trade surpluses. A8
 
Tokyo firms are accused of trading with the former East Germany. A9
 
LITHUANIA STANDOFF ON TROOPS
Russian officials reacted with only a touch of bravado after the Lithuanian President canceled a visit to Moscow over Russia's decision to suspend talks on withdrawing troops from Lithuania. A7
 
ARMENIANS SEIZE AZERBAIJAN CITY
Armenians trying to drive Azerbaijanis from the disputed province of Nagorno-Karabakh seized a critical city in Azerbaijan proper. A7
 
AFGHANS FIGHTING IN KASHMIR
Guerrillas from Afghanistan have joined Muslim separatists trying to take control of Kashmir. A5
 
Berlin Journal: A dissident's voice is finally heard. A4
 
National A10-12
 
AIRPORTS TURN TO TAXES
Despite the protests of airlines, a growing number of airports are imposing a tax to pay for projects like noise abatement, security and new runways and terminals. A1
 
KENNEDY FILES OPENED
The National Archives made public a huge cache of Government documents on the 1963 assassination of President Kennedy. Included were 90,000 pages of C.I.A. files. A1
 
CALIFORNIA FACES HAZY FUTURE
Southern California, long a national symbol of hope, opportunity and escape, is trying to come to grips with an era of limits, socially and economically. A1
 
VACATION, CLINTON STYLE
Carrying his own clubs, the President demonstrated a leisurely golfing style far different from the previous chief executive. A1
 
Clinton's old friend Lani Guinier was also on Martha's Vineyard. A11
 
2 CONVICTED IN POLICE BEATING
Two former Detroit police officers were convicted of second-degree murder in the beating death of a black man last year. A10
 
CRITICISM IN IRAQ CASE
A judge harshly criticized the Clinton Administration's conclusion that there was no conspiracy by the Bush Administration to secretly arm Iraq and then cover up its actions.A10
 
A San Francisco official was ousted for his anti-gay remarks. A12
 
Metro Digest B1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Science Times C1-11
 
REACHING FOR MARS
Scientists struggled to re-establish contact with the Mars Observer, on its way to a polar orbit of Mars. Radio contact was lost on Saturday, as the spacecraft was just three days away from an initial orbit of the planet. A1
 
The first collapse of an empire is linked to three-century drought. C1
 
Doctors' quandary: Does long-term Lyme disease exist?C1
 
Hidden faults could literally escalate and threaten Los Angeles. C1
 
The Doctor's World: A fatal case of rabies nearly ignored. C3
 
How sex selection works in the world of gerbils. C4
 
Q&A C6
 
Peripherals C9
 
Personal Computers C11
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
The first Museum of Humor. C13
 
The theremin: From a man to a documentary. C13
 
Music: Colorado concert hall. C13
 
Books: Doubts about Beryl Markham. C16
 
Fashion A13
 
Galanos has the last word.
 
Patterns
 
By Design
 
Sports B6-11
 
Baseball: Gooden gets ejected as Mets lose. B7
 
Players promise not to strike. B7
 
Kamieniecki's status a question mark. B9
 
Blue Jays fall to Indians. B9
 
Columns: Vecsey on Don James B7
 
On Baseball B9
 
TV Sports B11
 
Football: Giants cut Stephen Baker. B7
 
Coach out but Huskies carry on. B7
 
Jets scouting report. B10
 
Horse Racing: Krone and Smith vie for title. B10
 
Sports People: B6
 
Tennis: Bruguera shines on hard court. B10
 
Track and Field: Chinese and British on heels of U.S. B10
 
Obituaries D19
 
Eddie Chiles, former owner of baseball's Texas Rangers.
 
Salah Jadid, Syrian ruler ousted in 1970 coup.
 
Dinmukhamed Kunayev, governed Kazakhstan in former Soviet Union.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials Ethics at midnight.
 
Bloody Algeria.
 
Dreaming of Lucy.
 
Susanna Rodell: At Monticello.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: A banking tragedy.
 
Robert C. McFarlane: Consider what Stars Wars accomplished.
 
Milos Vasic: A bridge too close, a peace too far.
 
Pamela A. Miller: Misspending oil-spill money in Alaska.
 
Chronicle A16
 
Bridge C16
 
Chess C18
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (82%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); NICARAGUA (94%); AZERBAIJAN (93%); LITHUANIA (93%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (92%); ARMENIA (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); INDIA (72%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (72%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (82%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); NICARAGUA (94%); AZERBAIJAN (93%); LITHUANIA (93%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (92%); ARMENIA (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); INDIA (72%); KASHMIR (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (72%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); AIRPORTS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ASSASSINATION (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); HOMICIDE (74%); MURDER (74%); CORRUPTION (72%); CONSPIRACY (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); AIRLINES (63%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (63%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (62%); GOLF (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



585 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Serious About Vacation, Clinton Keeps It Casual

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EDGARTOWN, Mass., Aug. 23

 BODY:
"Whoa, mama, stay up!"
This was the President of the United States speaking, and he was addressing a pockmarked white ball that he had sent sailing on a long drive toward the right.
After taking a similar golf shot on his first Presidential vacation four years ago, George Bush said, "Oh, golly darn, get up there!"
 
Exact Opposites
 But Mr. Clinton has been demonstrating a casual golfing style that is almost the exact opposite of the frenetic pace Mr. Bush set on his vacations. 
 Mr. Clinton carries his own clubs and has been taking along golfing partners from Washington -- Webster L. Hubbell, an Associate Attorney General; Vernon E. Jordan, a prominent lawyer who helped supervise the Clinton transition effort, and Sheldon Hackney, head of the National Endowment for the Humanities -- for his favorite leisure sport.
Maybe the difference is regional. Mr. Bush, ever the Connecticut Yankee in spite of his efforts to adopt Texas as his home state, raced through outings of golf, speedboating, bonefishing, tennis and jogging.
For Mr. Clinton, the Arkansas native who has neither the lean physique nor, apparently, the manic sports competitiveness of his predecessor, the pace is decidedly more sedate. He has played golf only twice since he arrived here on Martha's Vineyard last Thursday, and each time, say those who have seen him, in a perfectly ordinary fashion.
On the course, he has a casual attitude. He is happily willing to take a mulligan -- the extra shot offered among social golfing partners when a first shot goes awry -- with little compunction. Purists might call it cheating when the first shot is not counted; Mr. Clinton's friends call it a generosity of spirit. He encourages others to take mulligans, too.
 
Reading, Eating, Relaxing
 "You've got to get a good shot on the first tee, Vernon," the President said at one point after Mr. Jordan had sent a tee shot behind a tree. Mr. Jordan obliged.
Aside from an occasional jog, aides said, the President has spent the rest of his time reading, talking, relaxing or going out to dinner.
Today, he ventured off the grounds of Robert S. McNamara's Oyster Pond home here just long enough for a brief family shopping trip in Vineyard Haven. He, his wife, Hillary, and their daughter, Chelsea, shopped and shook hands before climbing back into a Chevrolet Suburban for the trip to the second dinner in three days at the summer home of Katharine Graham, chairman of The Washington Post Company.
As if to remove any temptation to work, Mr. Clinton has no senior aides on this trip and has talked to Washington only occasionally, his press secretary, Dee Dee Myers, said. His daily intelligence briefing has become a paper report. He was not told about an incident in Somalia in which six American soldiers were slightly wounded until he awoke, three hours after the national security aide who is with him here received the information.
"I think he's trying to give his brain a rest," Ms. Myers said.
It is not that the President cannot be frenetic when he chooses. His Administration is notorious for late nights and cold pizza. And in the weeks leading up to his vacation break, he worked virtually around the clock to win support for his economic legislation. That pace is expected to resume next month when he begins traveling to promote his plans to streamline the Government, overhaul health care and relax trade barriers with Mexico and Canada.
 
An August Without Crises
 For a change, Mr. Clinton could afford to take the break. Unlike recent Presidential Augusts, this month has not presented him with coups in the Soviet Union, disputed Supreme Court nominations or invasions in the Persian Gulf. And the crises that have cropped up on the world stage, in Somalia and Nicaragua, have been mainly problems for other world leaders.
So as he wanders from hole to hole in a seven-cart motorcade at the Farm Neck Golf Club in Oak Bluffs, the President has looked like a man who was sticking resolutely to his pledge to take a real vacation.
He chats incessantly about golf -- the green, the wind, the tees -- as he plays. On Saturday, when he hit a ball into the rough, he momentarily lost track of it. When he found it again, it was at the feet of a group of photographers.
Mr. Clinton was delighted to find it, since a second ball he had hit to make up for the one he thought was lost had landed in a sand trap.
"This is my ball?" he exclaimed. "I can't believe it!" He then hit the ball to the green with a little too much force. "Stop! Stop! Stop!" he cried as it rolled past the hole.
 
Dressed for Vacation
 But while Mr. Clinton plays golf in an ordinary way, there are constant reminders that he is no longer an ordinary golfer. Last week he played with Jack Nicklaus and former President Gerald R. Ford in Vail, Colo. Here on Martha's Vineyard, hundreds of gawkers lined the road beside the golf course as he played.
A sure sign that the President is serious about his vacation is his attire. On Thursday he wore salmon-colored chinos to Mr. Jordan's house. No socks. On Saturday he was dressed entirely in purple for his first trip to the golf course and a subsequent visit with Chelsea to a local fair.
Unlike Barbara Bush, Hillary Rodham Clinton does not play golf, or even try to. Instead, Ms. Myers said, she has been reading and relaxing in private. The family watches videotapes of movies and plays games together, she said.
How much work has the First Couple done?
"Almost none," Ms. Myers said. "Actually, none.
"One of the things I think he misses in the minute-to-minute life in Washington is time to reflect," she added.
 
Waiting for a Glimpse
 The President has been so unexpectedly quiet and low-profile that his absence from the public eye has left the locals, many now wearing Clinton T-shirts, going to great lengths for a glimpse.
On Sunday evening, by the time the Clintons arrived for dinner at the Black Dog, the Vineyard Haven restaurant, about 100 people were waiting outside, some for as long as two hours.
Mr. Clinton ate grilled bonito, and Mrs. Clinton had a vegetable plate, according to the restaurant manager. Sticking to his new colorful vacation look, the President wore a raspberry shirt and green windbreaker with jeans and cowboy boots.
And as they left, they shook every hand.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton watching a less-than-satisfactory golf shot on Saturday with Associate Attorney General Webster L. Hubbell. (Stephen Rose for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MARTHA'S VINEYARD (MASS) UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL, PERSONAL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION GOLF (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); WALKING & JOGGING (73%); LAWYERS (71%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (55%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); IFILL, GWEN; BUSH, GEORGE; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; CLINTON, CHELSEA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



586 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 2328 words

HEADLINE: Nation's Land of Promise Enters an Era of Limits

SERIES: Reinventing California: First of three articles.

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 23

 BODY:
Almost from the time modern Americans discovered Southern California, it has been the ultimate symbol of hope, opportunity and escape: hope for the aged looking for a nice climate in which to retire; opportunity for those on the make; sunny escape for the beautiful and the indolent.
But now, as the nation looks to this region for clues to the American future, utopian hopes have turned into cautionary tales. 
 This has long been a land of contradictions, at once a place of movie fantasy and brutal truth, a place where people have come to escape reality but often confronted it, a land of both natural beauty and sudden death, where tanning booths thrive even though the sun shines almost every day. It has been fertile soil for almost every imaginable trend in art, film, music, architecture, body building, surfer styles, clothing, language, food, aircraft and rockets.
Now, Southern California stands to lead again, in ways that are not always so welcome, as the region confronts the full force of powerful social and economic trends roiling the rest of the nation.
Southern California will demonstrate whether it will be possible to transform the American economy from one based on cold war military spending to one based on peace. While the region would presumably benefit from a national economic recovery, its longer-term health will depend on resolving structural problems of overdependence on military spending.
Southern California, the destination of roughly half the two million immigrants entering the nation each year, will also offer a gauge of just how much immigration American society can absorb. And other national questions will have their biggest tests here: What will race relations be when the most troublesome tensions arise from complex conflicts among Hispanic, Asian and black Americans? Can schools, hospitals and other public services maintain their quality in an era of government retrenchment? And can Americans feel safe from crime on their streets without Draconian policing?
Finally, Southern California will demonstrate whether any common identity and purpose can be forged in an urban future in which workers commute hours from distant suburbs and where the poor, the middle class and the rich live in isolation from one another.
President Clinton has linked the nation's recovery to the future of this state. "We can't turn this economy around unless we're going to lift California up," he told a college audience in the San Fernando Valley in March.
All this is playing out in what is probably the most problematic and improbable region of the United States, the most extreme southwest sector, an urbanized and suburbanized region of mountains, deserts and beaches stretching from Santa Barbara in the north, through Los Angeles and Orange counties to San Diego in the south, and deep into the Mojave Desert in the east, a region nearly the size of Ohio that has to pump in its water from hundreds of miles away, a region that has nonetheless built itself into an engine of both the global and national economies and of popular culture.
If Southern California were to be split from the rest of the state, as some politicians in Sacramento (mostly from Northern California) are seriously proposing, Southern Californians would still be living in the most populous state in the nation.
And it would be a state where unbridled optimism was long the unofficial credo, where people collectively convinced themselves that the economic vicissitudes that shook the Northeast, the Midwest and Texas in recent years were as remote and unlikely here as snow.
While there were brief economic dips after the Korean War and again in the 1970's and 1980's, Southern California's prosperity seemed as reliable as its monotonously sunny days. The region has enjoyed nearly unbroken affluence since it began its modern boom after World War II as the nation's pre-eminent center for making guided missiles, aircraft parts and fighter jets. The names McDonnell Douglas, Lockheed and Hughes became synonymous with the smug assumption that nothing could go wrong in paradise.
 
When Success Breeds Failure
 Now California is struggling through its longest and deepest slump since the Great Depression. Nearly two-thirds of the jobs lost in the United States in the last three years have been in California. Even as the national unemployment rate dropped to 6.8 percent in July, it rose in California by nearly a full percentage point, to 9.8 percent, the highest of any of the most populous states.
Optimists say they can take heart from promising signs: Asian and Hispanic residents of Southern California are beginning to acquire a political foothold; a new Mayor of Los Angeles is pledging to hold the line on services, and jobs are on the increase in industries like entertainment, biotechnology and health services.
For now, however, the region's troubles have given validity to the aphorism that "success, if left unfettered, breeds failure," words echoed by Michael J. Gage, a former Deputy Mayor of Los Angeles.
"California had not gone through many economic downturns before," said Mr. Gage, now president of Calstart, a Burbank company that is trying to establish an electric-car industry in Southern California. "We had assumed we were on the cutting edge and were always dabbling with the new. But we were also very caught up with doing things the old way.
"When everything is going well, you do not challenge your assumptions. The Midwest and Texas have come back stronger than before. It will happen in California as well."
Don Gevirtz, chairman of the Foothill Corporation of investment bankers in Agoura Hills, a suburb west of Los Angeles, said he believed that the region's economy was close to the bottom and that if unfettered from onerous government regulations, normal economic cycles would bring a lift. But, he added, "nobody dreamed this area was as vulnerable as it has turned out to be."
 
Chipping at a Symbol In Search for Savings
 Even the bronzed lifeguard in red trunks and sun-blanched hair, that ultimate symbol of California youth, vigor and beauty, is under assault. Its budget broken by the recession, the Los Angeles County government may reduce the lifeguard force by a quarter, leaving such famed surfer haunts as Malibu, Surfrider, Manhattan and Hermosa beaches unprotected part of the time.
Some see a cultural meaning in this. "It's as if they were saying, 'We're treadmill kind of people, 9-to-5'ers, not the kind of people who grab a towel and hit the beach,' " Mari Womack, a cultural anthropologist at the Northridge campus of California State University, told The Los Angeles Times recently. "I think they are signaling that the traditional gift that defines California, free and accessile beaches, is no longer important."
The region's economic future is also uncertain. David Hensley, who recently left California after three years as the most pessimistic -- and accurate -- of the local economic weathermen, foresees no recovery much before the spring.
"Housing is flat on its back, and manufacturing employment is dropping like a stone," Mr. Hensley wrote in his last report for the Business Forecasting Project at the University of California at Los Angeles. "The window of opportunity for California to emerge from recession this year probably has closed: the economy is still sinking, and government cutbacks are just around the corner."
California has suffered a net loss of 519,000 jobs, the bulk of the 810,000 jobs that disappeared nationwide in the recent recession, said Larry Kimbell, new director of the forecasting project. One of every four jobs lost was in the aerospace and military industries, and 43 percent of the state's job losses occurred in Los Angeles County.
 
Surface Prosperity In Vivid Colors
 Today, an optimist here is somebody who says the economy has bottomed out, but the casual visitor might not quickly see much amiss. From the air, the wide freeways that crisscross the seemingly endless basin between the San Bernardino Mountains and the Pacific Ocean seem to throb like arteries pumping blood. The vision suggests all the decentralized energy and purposefulness of an ant colony.
Torrential spring rains have brought a glorious summer of hibiscus, lavender, bougainvillea and oleander blossoms. Even the impoverished South-Central area of Los Angeles, with its neat, well-kept homes behind the corridors of riot destruction, looks pretty in a way that leaves foreign visitors wondering how misery could coexist with such beauty.
In the Hollywood hills, muscled young men in T-shirts mingle with statuesque starlets at celebrity parties, gazing out over the twinkling matrix of streets in the coarser flats below as they compare notes on body waxing, nose piercing and the latest in the Heidi Fleiss call-girl scandal. The fantasy of movie and television land has hardly missed a beat. Vanna White daily turns the letters on "Wheel of Fortune," Jay Leno spouts his monologue in Burbank, and crowds line up daily at Paramount Studios on Melrose Avenue in Hollywood for one of the precious 323 seats to the "Arsenio Hall Show."
In one hopeful sign for the depressed region, Hollywood is having its best summer ever, reaping more than $1 billion in box office sales with hits like "Jurassic Park" and "The Firm." Employment in the industry for the first five months of this year was up 17 percent from the corresponding period last year. Universal Studios is reporting record attendance at its studio tour in August.
Economic experts also point to other business sectors that hold promise, especially environmental cleanup, computers and biotechnology. Computer makers like AST Research Inc. and Amplicon Inc., for example, have weathered the recession well.
 
Looking for Hope But Finding Little
 Still, a harder reality cannot be masked, a reality seen in the stretches of empty stores and offices in Los Angeles, Santa Monica and Beverly Hills, and even on the famed Sunset Strip in West Hollywood; a reality seen in the forests of for-sale signs near the vast weapons plants in Long Beach and the San Fernando Valley, where laid-off assembly workers are desperate. Since 1990, property values have sunk by a third to a half in such affluent areas as Brentwood, Bel-Air and Santa Monica. And job prospects for black and Hispanic youths remain bleak despite considerable efforts at training.
Even those still working worry. "People are in such distress," said Representative Anthony C. Beilenson, a Democrat whose district includes much of the valley. "They are afraid of losing their jobs. There is not much hope one can offer, except that after two or three years things will have changed. This is a difficult time of transition. We are suffering more in Southern California because we were overly reliant on the military economy. We had too much success."
Even illegal aliens complain. Martin Vera, a 33-year-old laborer from Morelia, Mexico, is one of the thousands of Mexicans and Central Americans who daily assemble on street corners on the West Side of Los Angeles to wait for odd jobs. Mr. Vera, who lives in his car, says he is lucky to work three days a week.
"This country isn't well off enough for me to stay," Mr. Vera said. "If there's work, it's better than Mexico. But if not, it's worse."
 
Emotional Cost Of Diversity
 Beyond the economic stress is psychological stress. Richard Keating, a prominent local architect, both revels in Los Angeles's kaleidoscopic diversity and fears it. "I feel a lack of control," he said. "Drive-by shootings can occur anywhere. Sometimes you want to go to the beach or the cliffs, to put your back against a wall so that you can see what's coming."
Almost from the turn of the century, Southern California has careered between optimism and doom, in its literature and polity. Listen to the dark vision of Nathanael West as he describes the early 20th-century newcomers from the Midwest in his classic 1939 novel "The Day of the Locust":
"All their lives they had slaved at some kind of dull, heavy labor, behind desks and counters, in the fields and at tedious machines of all sorts, saving their pennies. . . . Where else should they go but California, the land of sunshine and oranges? Once there, they discover that sunshine isn't enough. They get tired of oranges, even of avocado pears and passion fruit. Nothing happens. . . . The sun is a joke. Oranges can't titillate their jaded palates. Nothing can ever be violent enough to make taut their slack minds and bodies."
In fact, Southern California was built on sturdier stock than that. It was promoted during the 1920's as a kind of "neo-Babylonian city of Commerce," in the words of Kevin Starr, a historian at the University of Southern California, in effect a Chicago with sunshine and ocean waves. With its new port and rail lines, the region became a prosperous center of light manufacturing and food processing -- tires, meat packing, flour milling, pottery, oranges, metals. Later came heavier industry, automobiles, and with World War II, manufacture of fighter planes, commercial aircraft and rockets.
After all, the region had everything industry wanted: plenty of oil, water, electricity, a glorious dry climate, proximity to Central America and the Pacific Basin, abundant labor and weak unions.
But if that era has passed, what is to replace it? Are optimists like Joel Kotkin, an economics writer, correct in seeing recovery based on immigrant-driven entrepreneurship? Or is another writer, Mike Davis, correct in seeing a continuing slide into an exploitative third-world economy? Or is salvation to be found in Kevin Starr's preference for a return to the region's former economic role as processor and shipper of foods?
In any case, there is no arguing with Mr. Starr's dictum: "Expectations have to be shifted."
Next: Absorbing a new wave of immigrants.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A test of Southern California's economic success will be whether social programs can maintain their quality during government retrenchment. The homeless regularly sleep near palm trees in Santa Monica. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times); Southern California will demonstrate whether it will be possible to transform the American economy from one based on cold war military spending to one based on peace. At a McDonnell Douglas plant in Long Beach, employees continued working last week on a C-17 military transport aircraft. (Marissa Roth for The New York Times) (pg. A12)
 
Graph: "Southern California: More People, More Problems" shows figures of population, housing prices, taxable sales, residential building permits and unemployment rate fin Los Angeles, San Diego, Orange, Ventura and Santa Barbara counties. (Sources: California Finance Department, U.C.L.A. Business Forecasting Project; Datastream) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES TRENDS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SURFING (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FILM (70%); RACE & RACISM (69%); TANNING SALONS (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); URBANIZATION (68%); SUBURBS (66%); MOUNTAINS (63%); DESERTS (60%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



587 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Officers in Detroit Guilty In Beating Death of Motorist

BYLINE: By DON TERRY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 23

 BODY:
Two former police officers were convicted of second-degree murder today in the beating death of a black motorist, ending the country's latest racially charged trial involving the police.
A third former officer was acquitted of assault with intent to do great bodily harm in the case, which has haunted this city for nine months with its parallels to the beating of Rodney G. King in Los Angeles. Like the officers in the King case, the defendants here were white, and some officials feared that the outcome could touch off a firestorm in Detroit. 
 On the shabby and struggling block where the man, Malice Green, was beaten to death Nov. 5, the guilty verdicts set off a celebration of horn honking, rap music and prayers as well as tears from Mr. Green's sisters.
But there was also anger, because the two convicted officers, Walter Budzyn and Larry Nevers, were allowed to remain free on bond until their sentencing on Oct. 12.
"If a black was found guilty of murder, they'd slap the handcuffs on him and put him up under the jail," said Jesse Carter, 61. "But I'm satisfied with the verdicts, I guess. I know Malice is dead and gone but I hope his spirit will feel good now."
As night fell, the situation was calm, although half a dozen squad cars gathered near the site as a police helicopter circled overhead.
Mayor Coleman A. Young of Detroit, who had called the beating of Mr. Green a murder only hours after the incident, said today, "I believe justice has been done, and I assume that we will have a quiet and orderly reaction in the city."
The president of the city's police union, Tom Schneider, also issued a statement, saying that the verdicts would change the way officers work. "Meanwhile, it is the law-abiding citizen who suffers," he said.
 
Tears and Stares
 The reaction was also mixed inside Courtroom 402, where the three-month trial was held and the verdicts delivered.
Mr. Budzyn, who is 47 years old and had been a member of the Detroit Police Department for 19 years, looked straight ahead as jurors pronounced him guilty.
Mr. Nevers, who is 53 and was a 24-year veteran of the department, slumped over and covered his eyes as the verdict was announced against Mr. Budzyn. Mr. Nevers sobbed as jurors then declared him guilty.
Separate juries, sitting side by side during the trial, decided the cases against Mr. Budzyn and Mr. Nevers. The third officer, Robert Lessnau, 33, asked for a bench trial, which was held by Judge George W. Crockett 3d.
Judge Crockett had decided Mr. Lessnau's case last week, but all the verdicts were sealed until today.
The murder convictions carry mandatory prison sentences, with a maximum of life. Prosecutors said they had not yet decided the length of sentence they will recommend. All three officers were dismissed from the force shortly after the confrontation with Mr. Green.
The former officers cannot file appeals of their convictions until their sentencing hearing. Mr. Nevers's lawyer, John Goldpaugh, said he would probably base his appeal on issues like the judge's refusal to move the trial out of the city and the showing of the film "Malcolm X" to jurors during a break in the trial.
The movie includes the videotaped beating of Mr. King. Two of the four officers accused were convicted this year in Federal court of violating Mr. King's civil rights, but first they were acquitted on state charges, prompting Los Angeles to erupt into three days of fire and death.
The fear here over the last nine months -- often whispered -- was that the fire next time would be in Detroit.
 
The Role of Race
 In a news conference after the verdicts were announced, one member of the Budzyn jury, who asked to be identified only by his first name, Karl, said he voted for a guilty verdict under duress. Prosecutors said they doubted the statement would jeopardize the conviction.
What role, if any, race played in the week of deliberations is unknown. The undercurrents were obvious in a case in which the defendants were white and the victim black, but no testimony in the trial suggested that race was a motive in the beating. A black supervisor, Sgt. Freddie Douglas, was originally accused of involuntary manslaughter, but the charge was dropped; he now faces a trial on a misdemeanor charge of neglect of duty.
The jury deciding Mr. Nevers's fate included 10 blacks and 2 whites; the jury hearing Mr. Budzyn's case was made up of 11 blacks and one white.
Judge Crockett, who acquitted Mr. Lessnau, is black, as is 76 percent of the city of Detroit.
 
The Chain of Events
 The city was badly shaken by the events at 23d Street and Warren shortly after 10 P.M. on Nov. 5, 1992, when Mr. Green pulled up in front of a shabby two-story building.
Mr. Green, a 35-year-old unemployed steel worker, was dropping off a friend in front of the building, where the homeless went for shelter and the drug addicted went to smoke crack, when Mr. Nevers and Mr. Budzyn, working as plainclothes police officers, approached.
They demanded that he show them his identification. Mr. Green reached into his glove compartment and held something in his hand -- witnesses said it was probably a set of keys or a piece of paper. He refused officers' orders to open his hand.
Then the officers took turns beating his hand and his head with their heavy metal flashlights in front of witnesses, including four paramedics and several other police officers.
Some experts testified at the trial that Mr. Green had died from at least 14 blows to his head. But medical examiners testifying for the defense argued that the cocaine and alcohol found in his body played a role in his death.
Jurors declined to answer questions about the credibility of the former officers' testimony, but a prosecutor, Kym Worthy, said Mr. Budzyn's statements were particularly unbelievable.
Mr. Budzyn testified that he never struck Mr. Green and that he did not see Mr. Nevers or any other officers strike any blows.
A few miles from the courtroom today, along the curb where Mr. Green's life was beaten out of him, Gilbert Paul, 17, said he was relieved that the officers had been found guilty.
"There could have been some trouble otherwise," he said. "But I don't think we'd really be tearing up the stores where we shop at -- we're too smart. Detroit might seem like it's a bad place, but it's not."
Two of Mr. Green's sisters, Sherry and Monica Green, rushed to the site minutes after hearing the verdicts. The two sisters kneeled at the curb with about 50 people as a minister thanked the Lord "for the convictions."
But Sherry Green said she would not be truly satisfied until the former officers are sentenced, although she hoped everyone would remain calm.
"My brother wouldn't want to be remembered for a riot," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dannon Haliburton showing his son, Jerry, and daughter, Nikeya, yesterday where Malice Green, whose portrait adorns the wall, was fatally beaten by Detroit police officers last year. Some residents were angry that the officers were to remain free until their sentencing on Oct. 12. (Peter Yates for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DETROIT (MICH) UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; BLACKS (IN US); TRIALS; BRUTALITY AND HARASSMENT CHARGES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (91%); VERDICTS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); MURDER (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); SENTENCING (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); BAIL (73%); ACQUITTAL (72%); RAP MUSIC (54%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: GREEN, MALICE; TERRY, DON; NEVERS, LARRY; BUDZYN, WALTER

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



588 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Leader Vows Action on Political System

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 23

 BODY:
Japan's new Prime Minister, Morihiro Hosokawa, today pledged a fundamental reshaping of what he described as the corrupt electoral system and stronger efforts to reduce Japan's trade surpluses.
At least in terms of oratory, Mr. Hosokawa's first policy address offered a remarkable shift from the statements of the conservative governments of the postwar era. He criticized Japan's narrow-minded pursuit of economic gain and the collusive institutions that excluded outsiders and worked against the interests of Japanese consumers. 
 Ignoring occasionally loud heckling from some opposition members in Parliament, Mr. Hosokawa effectively launched the first Government in 38 years to exclude the Liberal Democratic Party by echoing many of Japan's longtime critics.
"It is time to candidly admit that Japan has so far put its highest priority on economic development and has not paid sufficient attention to improving the quality of life for each and every person," Mr. Hosokawa said, adding that a reduction in the trade surplus would help rectify this imbalance.
In several key respects, however, he promised continuity in a policy agenda that is, like the frail seven-party coalition Government he heads, a mix of right-wing and left-wing goals.
Mr. Hosokawa said he placed his highest priority on maintaining strong relations with the United States and would continue to support the security treaty with Washington.
But while his proposals for political reform were sweeping, Mr. Hosokawa offered few assurances he would take strong action to reinvigorate the economy, which is being battered by a two-year-old recession and the soaring yen. Making matters worse, Mr. Hosokawa's coalition is badly divided over how to respond to the situation.
The Socialist Party, the largest party in the coalition, has traditionally favored tax cuts, since they benefit individuals rather than the big corporations long supported by Liberal Democratic Party governments.
But Finance Ministry bureaucrats and more conservative members of the coalition oppose tax reductions because they feel such measures will not result in much new spending and will just inflate the budget deficit.
Mr. Hosokawa said he would offer measures to deregulate the economy and to help consumers, who pay some of the highest prices in the world.
"I intend to work vigorously for expanded domestic demand and improved market access and for such consumer-oriented policies as rectifying the disparity between domestic and international prices and promoting deregulation," he said.
The Liberal Democrats, now a formidable opposition party, were quick to criticize Mr. Hosokawa as overly vague both in his goals and in distinguishing his generally conservative policies from earlier Governments.
"Although he said his Government is a reform-oriented, non-Liberal Democratic Government, he did not reveal specific measures on how it was different from the Liberal Democratic Government or on how to achieve reform," said Yohei Kono, the combative new president of the Liberal Democrats.
The promise of a new electoral system was central to the strategy followed by Mr. Hosokawa in the recent election. But he stressed today that he would follow a tough line and eliminate completely corporate contributions to politicians and parties. He said he would also toughen laws on election financing violations.
In addition, Mr. Hosokawa said Japan would support an indefinite extension of the treaty on preventing the spread of nuclear weapons.
The previous Government had hesitated on the issue, creating concerns that Japan wanted to preserve the option of developing its own atomic weapons if it faced a serious threat from North Korea or other countries.
Mr. Hosokawa also repeated conciliatory comments on World War II. "I would thus like to take this opportunity to express anew our profound remorse and apologies for the fact that past Japanese actions, including aggression and colonial rule, caused unbearable suffering and sorrow for so many people," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; ELECTIONS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CORRUPTION (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%); JAPANESE YEN (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN) MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



589 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
A tax imposed at a growing number of airports to pay for projects like new or improved runways and terminals is expected to yield almost $800 million in the next fiscal year. But many airlines are protesting the tax, fearing that the resulting increase in fares is putting them at a competitive disadvantage. [Page A1.]
An economic upturn caused by lower interest rates has not occurred. Many economists believe the reasons are the weakened banking system, corporate restructurings and layoffs, weak housing construction and reluctance by businesses and consumers to make financial commitments. Economic Analysis. [D1.] 
 The way public companies pay their top executives will probably not be changed drastically by the new tax law. [D1.]
 
Companies
I.B.M. is said to be developing a clone of the Intel microprocessors used in most personal computers. The effort could generate badly needed sales and ease I.B.M.'s dependence on a key supplier for the chips. It could also put new pressure on Intel. [D1.]
Wal-Mart's pricing practices were challenged in court by three pharmacies claiming that the nation's largest retailer sold merchandise below cost to drive competitors out of business. [D1.]
The Big Three auto makers have found success in pickups, mini-vans and sport-utility vehicles, a market that their Japanese rivals have been slow to exploit. [D1.]
Citibank sharply curtailed home-mortgage lending to black and Hispanic customers in the New York region in 1992 because of the restructuring of its mortgage lending business. [D4.]
Nintendo and Silicon Graphics confirmed that they were collaborating on a new video game player. [D4.]
Bally's Grand emerged from bankruptcy reorganization as a new publicly held company spun off by Bally Manufacturing. [D4.]
Ipalco ended its takeover attempt for PSI Resources, clearing the way for PSI's merger with Cincinnati Gas and Electric. [D5.]
Philip Morris made several executive changes, including the promotion of the president of Miller Brewing to chairman. [D5.]
Thinking Machine's president and chief operating officer, Harvey L. Weiss, resigned after only seven months on the job. [D5.]
Continental Cablevision plans to link its 2.9 million subscribers to the Internet global computer network. [D18.]
United Technologies agreed to pay $5.3 million in penalties for violating environmental laws at seven plants in Connecticut. [B4.]
 
International
Five officials of the Banca Nazionale del Lavoro's Atlanta branch who pleaded guilty to felony charges in connection with alleged secret Bush Administration efforts to arm Iraq were spared sentencing by an angry Federal judge. [A10.]
Japan's new Prime Minister pledged stronger efforts to reduce trade surpluses and criticized collusive institutions. [A8.]
Japanese authorities are investigating whether Toshiba illegally provided semiconductor technology to East Germany. [A9.]
 
Markets
Stocks closed lower for the first time in seven sessions. The Dow Jones industrials finished at 3,605.98, down 9.50 points. [D8.]
Bond market trading was quiet, with the price of the 30-year bond off slightly and the yield unchanged at 6.22 percent. [D16.]
The dollar weakened against the yen but rose against other currencies. Gold prices fell. [D15.] Oil prices jumped. [D15.]
 
Today's Columns
UJB Financial's stock has shot up, possibly because it is a takeover target or possibly for other reasons. Market Place. [D8.]
The country music industry and some consumer-products marketers have joined in a promotional campaign to raise awareness of AIDS. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D18.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); WMT (NYSE) (55%); 7974 (TSE) (54%); TOS (LSE) (54%); 6502 (TSE) (54%); DUK (NYSE) (53%); BYI (NYSE) (53%); UTX (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (54%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS339999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3999 MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES, NEC (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (56%); WAL-MART STORES INC (55%); NINTENDO CO LTD (54%); TOSHIBA CORP (54%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (53%); BALLY TECHNOLOGIES INC (53%); BALLY'S GRAND INC (53%); BALLY'S GRAND LAUNDRY CORP (53%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (52%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO INVERSIONES ARGENTINAS SA (51%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO SPA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (88%); AIRLINES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); RETAILERS (75%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); SEMICONDUCTORS (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); SENTENCING (67%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (67%); FELONIES (67%); MERGERS (67%); JUDGES (67%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); COMPUTER GAMES (65%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); STOCK INDEXES (61%); RESIGNATIONS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



590 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Economic Analysis;
With Rates This Low, Where's the Boom?

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 23

 BODY:
In pushing the nation to swallow the bitter medicine of deficit reduction, the Clinton Administration promised that there would be a sweet reward: a sharp drop in interest rates that would give the economy a huge boost.
Well, interest rates have fallen sharply, but the expected stimulus has not materialized, leaving economic growth as anemic as it was under President George Bush. 
 Even though interest rates have plunged to their lowest level in two decades, housing starts are not rising, commercial real estate remains flat, and businesses have scaled back their investment plans, when low rates would point to stepped-up spending on plant and equipment.
Administration officials are largely stumped by the economy's weak response to low rates. They recently scaled back their predictions of how much of a lift the drop in rates would give the economy and now say improvement will be felt in the second half of the year. But if things do not start to pick up soon, Mr. Clinton's poll ratings could drop even more.
Many economists say low rates are having less of an effect than in the past because of the weakened state of the banking system and the wave of corporate restructurings and layoffs. In addition, demographic trends are working against a strong pickup in housing construction.
Henry Kaufman, head of his own economic consulting firm in New York, said, "You may a need much larger decline in interest rates for them to become a noticeable economic stimulant in this cycle because we have gone through a great debt explosion that has immobilized many borrowers and financial institutions."
He said lower rates, perhaps including further cuts in short-term rates by the Federal Reserve, might be needed to make borrowers and banks feel strong enough to borrow and lend as they once did.
Still, some economists suggest that the problem is not the economy's underlying maladies but the reluctance of business and consumers to make big financial commitments.
"With interest rates the way they are, if you had a confident mood among businesses and consumers, the economy would take off like a rocket," said Lyle E. Gramley, an economist with the Mortgage Bankers Association. "But as long as you have all this fear and uncertainty out there, we'll only get a very modest response."
He said housing starts have failed to pick up either because Republicans convinced middle-class Americans that they would pay much higher taxes under the President's budget plan or because Americans fear higher taxes under the Administration's coming health care plan.
Mr. Gramley said the sooner the Administration released its health care plan, the sooner uncertainties would be removed and the sooner housing and other parts of the economy would pick up.
Alan Blinder, a member of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, expressed optimism that the low rates would soon pep up the economy, helping push economic growth to 3 percent in the second half. For now, the Administration is keeping its fingers crossed, rather than planning any new stimulus program.
"We are disappointed about the small response of housing and we expect that housing will pick up soon," he said. "Pretty soon people will realize their taxes won't go up because of the President's budget. They will also see that their taxes won't go up much as a result of the health care plan."
Mr. Blinder said low interest rates had helped some interest-sensitive sectors. Consumers have increased spending on expensive items like automobiles, and corporate investment is up, although investment plans have been scaled back recently.
In his view, the best theory for why housing construction remains stuck at the rate of about 1.2 million starts a year is that there is such "pervasive insecurity" about layoffs and small salary increases "that people hesitate to take on long-term commitments like buying a new home."
The economy's failure to respond more robustly has turned up the heat on President Clinton, who is relying on low rates to lift the economy after most of the incentives he proposed to spur business and investment were deleted from his budget package.
Having promised to turn around the economy, the Administration is eagerly hoping the lower rates will turn slow growth into solid growth and offset the dampening effect of tax increases and spending cuts.
Relying on studies done by the Federal Reserve, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen has said that each drop in interest rates of one-tenth of one percentage point will produce as much stimulus as an extra $10 billion in Government spending. As a result, some officials expected the drop in rates -- 30-year Treasury bonds are at about 6.2 percent today, down from 7.7 percent last November -- to translate into at least $100 billion in stimulus over two years, more than six times the size of the Administration's $16 billion stimulus program, which was blocked by Republicans.
 
Devising a Schedule
 Administration economists say 30 to 40 percent of the benefit of low rates should be felt in the first year, and the remainder in the next year.
But the stimulus has been modest, and many economists and even Administration officials now expect a smaller boost than the $100 billion.
The Council of Economic Advisers now estimates that each drop of one-tenth of a point in rates will translate into $6 billion in stimulus, or its equivalent in extra Government spending.
Mr. Blinder said the downward move in rates of 150 basis points since the election could thus produce $90 billion in stimulus over the next two years -- or about seven-tenths of 1 percent extra growth in the economy this year and next.
Some economists say that even the Administration's scaled-back estimate is too generous. They say most of the decline in interest rates stems not from the deficit-reduction package, but from the economy's weakness and a drop in inflation.
 
Dividing Up the Stimulus
 Laurence H. Meyer, a St. Louis-based economic consultant, says that only 40 basis points of the decline in rates is attributable to the President's deficit-reduction plan. That amount, he says, will provide $24 billion in stimulus, increasing growth by two-tenths of 1 percent over each of the next two years.
He said the rest of the drop in rates resulted from weaker-than-expected growth and inflation. In his view, the portion of the rate decline attributable to these factors will give the economy only a minor lift.
But Administration officials say at least two-thirds of the 150-basis-point drop in rates stems from the President's program to cut the budget deficit by $500 billion over five years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; HOUSING; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); CORPORATIONS; BANKS AND BANKING ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); TRENDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); MORTGAGE BANKING (66%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (66%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (56%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BUSH, GEORGE GEORGE W BUSH (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



591 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: United Technologies to Pay Fines Of $5.3 Million in Pollution Case

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Aug. 23

 BODY:
The United Technologies Corporation, Connecticut's largest private employer, agreed today to pay $5.3 million in penalties for violating environmental laws at seven plants in the state.
The penalties include the largest fine ever agreed to in an out-of-court settlement under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Federal officials said. 
 The company, whose subsidiaries make jet engines, helicopters and other high-technology products, also agreed to conduct audits to insure that it complies with anti-pollution laws at its 26 sites in New England.
At a news conference today, Paul G. Keough, the acting regional administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency, said United Technologies had "perhaps the worst environmental record of any company" in New England. That record led to a separate $3 million criminal penalty in 1991, then the largest criminal fine in United States history for violating hazardous waste laws.
 
Dumping of Acid in River
 Today's settlement stemmed from a Federal lawsuit filed in 1990. The violations it cited included unauthorized discharges of pollutants, including the dumping of acid that resulted in a fish kill in the Quinnipiac River; improper handling of hazardous waste; storage of hazardous waste without a permit; inadequate record-keeping, and inadequate training.
But company officials stressed today that the company had changed its ways. "The attitudes and practices that led to these violations were unacceptable, and we have moved aggressively to change them," Robert F. Daniell, the company's chairman and chief executive officer, said in a memo to all employees after the settlement was announced.
"There should be no need for further wake-up calls," he said.
State and Federal officials said they were confident that the company, which has 40,000 employees in Connecticut, would comply with environmental laws in the future.
"U.T.C. has been and always will be an asset vital to Connecticut's economic well-being," said the State Attorney General, Richard Blumenthal. "It now will be vital also to our environmental well-being."
United Technologies, which had $22 billion in revenues last year, will pay a $3.7 million fine under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and $1.6 million in penalties under the Federal Clean Water Act and a state water-quality law.
Two years ago, United Technologies announced an environmental initiative that included hiring Leslie Carothers, a former state commissioner of environmental protection, as vice president for environment, health and safety.
"I'm pleased to report that our environmental initiatives have already generated positive results," Mr. Daniell said in his memo to employees today. "U.T.C. operating units have reduced total chemical releases by 67 percent. The amount of hazardous waste generated at U.T.C. locations has dropped by 31 percent."
Officials from the E.P.A. and the Department of Justice stressed the approach of long-term comprehensive audits to insure compliance with environmental laws. The audits, to be monitored by the E.P.A., would run through the 1990's, the officials said.
"This settlement reflects several themes that will mark environmental enforcement in this administration," said Steven A. Herman, E.P.A. assistant administrator for enforcement, "penalties that are meaningful, multistatute enforcement and environmental audits that will institutionalize corporate compliance."

GRAPHIC: Map of Massachusettes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (97%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; QUINNIPIAC RIVER UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; FINES (PENALTIES); SUITS AND LITIGATION ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CRIMINAL FINES (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (90%); US RESOURCE CONSERVATION & RECOVERY ACT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (89%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); AUDITS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (68%); WATER QUALITY (61%); HELICOPTERS (56%); 

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



592 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
10-Year Note's Yield Hits a 1993 Low

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
After weeks of grinding long-term interest rates to lower and lower levels, the bond market finally seemed to realize yesterday that it was summer. Trading slowed and little happened as Labor Day loomed just two weeks away.
The day's biggest action was in the 10-year Treasury note, whose yield fell to another 1993 low. The price was up 1/32 as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 5.60 percent, from 5.61 percent Friday. 
 The price of the 30-year bond was also off 1/32 as the yield remained unchanged from Friday's 6.22 percent.
 
'Sit Back and Watch'
 "Most of the traders on Wall Street are saying, 'let's sit back and watch,' " said David Ader of Technical Data in Boston. With the 30-year bond's yield at a 16-year low, he said, traders are going to be very cautious about trading it.
He said that the price of the 30-year bond moved higher overnight as speculators in Japan continued to buy. One reason for this gain, he said, was that the speculators wanted to own dollars in case the Federal Reserve intervened in the currency markets again to support the dollar against the Japanese yen. A surprise intervention to buy dollars on Thursday pushed the dollar more than 4 percent higher against the yen.
But with so many people on vacation yesterday and thus out of the market, there was no follow-through. The overnight gains were lost during the rest of the day.
 
2-Year Auction Anticipated
 Another reason the market slowed yesterday was that the Treasury is scheduled to auction two-year notes today and five-year notes tomorrow. In when-issued, or pre-auction, trading, the yield on the two-year note was at 3.98 percent while the yield on the five-year note was at 4.99 percent.
Mr. Ader said he did not think the auctions would be a problem, though, because of the recent revival of the shorter end of the Treasury market. The yield on the two-year note pierced 4 percent recently and the yield on the five-year note followed soon thereafter, dropping below 5 percent.
The main reason is that recent economic data have indicated that the economy is growing very sluggishly. It is possible now that the 1.6 percent growth estimate for the second quarter of the year could be cut to less than 1 percent when the revised data is released next week.
Because of this slowing of growth expectations, it is very unlikely that the Federal Reserve would move any time soon to raise short-term interest rates, as was feared just last month. Without this threat, the yields on some short-term Treasuries have been able to slide back toward their recent lows while the yield on the five-year note has hit a new 1993 low.
 
Bundesbank Meeting Thursday
 Besides the auction, the week's most important action could come from abroad on Thursday when the German central bank, the Bundesbank, holds its first meeting after a monthlong summer recess.
The refusal of the Bundesbank to make a meaningful cut in interest rates at its last meeting in July set in motion the selling of the French franc and other currencies that led to the effective disbanding of the European Monetary System for the time being.
Some analysts think that the Bundesbank could cut its discount rate, which is now 6.75 percent, by half a percentage point. If it did, that would open the way for other interest-rate cuts across Europe. That, in turn, would help support bond market rallies. But the Bundesbank could also disappoint by waiting until next month to move.
Interest rates have already begun to creep lower in Europe following the widening of the trading bands in the monetary system. The French made another small cut yesterday, when the Bank of France offered banks overnight funds at 7.75 percent, down from 8.25 percent on Friday, and the fifth interest-rate cut in two weeks.
While the main beneficiary of a new round of interest-rate cuts in Europe would be bond and stock markets there, a rally in the dollar against the German currency could help the bond market here a little as foreign investors buy dollars in an effort to make money on that rally. Many of those dollars would then be invested in the bond market.
Following are the results of the Treasury's auctions of 3-month and 6-month bills yesterday:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.228	98.423	Discounted Rate	3.02%	3.12%	Coupon Yield	3.09%	3.21%	High Price	99.233	98.428	Discounted Rate	3.00%	3.11%	Coupon Yield	3.07%	3.20%	Low Price	99.228	98.418	Discounted Rate	3.02%	3.13%	Coupon Yield	3.09%	3.22%	Accepted at low price	35%	4%	Total applied for	$57,697,515	$57,277,673	Accepted	$12,365,054	$12,231,813	N.Y. applied for	$52,452,346	$53,286,769	N.Y. accepted	$10,731,535	$11,042,289	Noncompetitive	$1,192,124	$871,769	
 
Both these issues are dated August 26, 1993. The three-month bills mature November 26, 1993 and the six-month bills, February 24, 1994.


GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since May. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TECHNICAL DATA SYSTEMS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME BONDS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



593 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Cars That Are Not Are Hot

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 23

 BODY:
The Big Three's singular ray of sunshine these days comes from the mushrooming popularity of noncar cars: the pickups, mini-vans and sport-utility vehicles that are classified by the Government as "trucks" for purposes of energy and safety regulations.
Because trucks are one of the few segments that Japanese rivals have been slow to exploit and because they are more profitable than cars, Detroit's auto makers are devoting ever more money and thought to developing them and to thinking about the reasons they are so popular. 
 As a result, these vehicles increasingly come with amenities and in styles aimed at satisfying the tastes and needs of car buyers. For those who want to act rugged, but who haul more children than plywood, Detroit has added "extended cab" pickup models with classy stereos and rear seats. The Chrysler Corporation last week introduced the new Dodge Ram pickup, styled with a huge ornamental grille to attract those who want the look of a semi-trailer rig. Yet the Ram features a driver's air bag -- not yet required by law on noncars -- and a center console wide enough for a laptop computer.
 
Automobile Handling
 Or consider the Mercury Villager and Nissan Quest, mini-van clones built near Cleveland by the Ford Motor Company and engineered to mimic a car's handling characteristics. Styled with softer edges and less metal for women who are wary of the bulk and doughtiness of earlier noncars, the mini-vans have been a hit, with about 75,000 sales since they were introduced last fall.
Stoked by the first wave of mini-vans that replaced station wagons, the proportion of noncars to cars has steadily increased since the early 1980's; the vehicles now account for 45 percent of all sales for the Big Three. "I don't know how well we are doing at predicting how big this will get, but we are enjoying it," said Fred Cook, a director of marketing for the General Motors Corporation's GMC Truck division.
Because demand has been so strong, gross profit is about 20 percent higher on noncars than on cars, said Jerry Paul, automotive analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company in New York. Models like the Ford Explorer and the Jeep Grand Cherokee, which is made by Chrysler, earn $6,000 to $8,000 in gross profit for each sale, he said, before deducting the corporate overhead costs.
"When sales are a little slow, it takes, on average, a lot less in advertising and rebate money to move light-truck models than cars," Mr. Paul added.
 
 
Knowledge of Customers
 An increase in specialization by the Big Three in noncars is consistent with the free-market model of competition. As more competitors penetrate an industry, companies typically specialize in products they can build and sell advantageously. "What United States auto makers have going for them is a better understanding of what consumers want in this type of vehicle," said Gary Saxonhouse, a professor of economics at the University of Michigan. He said that competition, as well as tariffs on imported trucks, had "spurred innovation."
Although compact Japanese trucks proved popular, they were not very profitable because of the tariffs. The Japanese companies tried to reach higher, but more expensive models like the Toyota Previa mini-van and Mitsubishi Montero sport-utility vehicle captured only a sliver of the market. The Toyota T100 full-size pickup, introduced last fall, has floundered because it is relatively expensive and does not offer a V-8 engine, which many Americans demand.
 
 
Owners Are Loyal
 Moreover, buyers of full-size Ford or Chevrolet pickups are fiercely loyal to their brand. Roughly 70 percent stick with one or the other, compared with the 40 percent loyalty rate typical for car brands.
"El-cheapo pickups were all right for kids and poorer people, but when the Japanese tried to move up in a sector that's absolutely American, they couldn't do it," said Ken Gross, an automotive marketing consultant.
Cheap gasoline, to be sure, has worked in favor of Big Three noncars. Since gasoline costs 75 percent less in the United States than in many industrialized countries, consumers are not much bothered that the bigger, heavier noncars are, on average, 25 percent less fuel efficient than cars.
And that does not seem likely to change just because Congress has increased the Federal tax on gasoline by 4.3 cents, to 18.4 cents a gallon. But if Americans are discouraged by the higher tax recently enacted, Chrysler has "an array of smaller engines," which are more fuel efficient than current engines, said David Bostwick, the company's director of market research.
 
 
Faxes and Coolers
 In the meantime, the Big Three are dreaming up endless variations to satisfy consumers' desire for roomier, more useful vehicles. Cup holders were just one step; G.M. and others are considering features like coolers and appliances like fax machines.
Little wonder that G.M., which is closing factories like the one that makes Chevrolet Caprice sedans in Ypsilanti, Mich., is adding a third shift to its Oshawa, Ontario, plant that makes extended-cab pickups. Indeed, for the last few years, Ford and Chevrolet have sold more noncars than cars bearing their brand names.
Recognizing that the life styles of former car owners are rapidly changing, Ford will introduce yet another mini-van, to be called the Windstar, next year. It will be built in a plant where Ford Tempo and Mercury Topaz cars are now assembled.
Ross Roberts, vice president in charge of Ford brand vehicles, said: "Part of a woman's life used to be to drive station wagons. As her role changed, she needed a more versatile vehicle."
Carla Blackman, a product designer who lives in Westlake, Ohio, just bought a Ford Ranger extended-cab pickup. She did so, she said, in part to haul models of product designs and partly because "in my station wagon I felt like such a parental unit."
 
 
Crowded Garages
 Surveys by Ford showed that about half the buyers of noncars were adding them to household fleets that already numbered two or more vehicles. Chrysler learned through focus groups that when car owners switch to mini-vans, they tend to buy one mini-van after another; those who switch to sport utilities, however, often go back to cars.
That is in part because the mini-van is most popular among families with children, while childless couples and "empty nesters" are the biggest buyers of sport-utility vehicles. But younger, single buyers are most willing to consider pickups.
"The big question is what mini-van owners will do when the children grow up," said Joel Pitcoff, a research analyst for Ford.
 
 
Cars Seem Here to Stay
 Noncars have been trendy for less than 10 years. Might they one day overrun cars entirely? The auto makers do not think so.
"They're multipurpose, but they can't meet all needs," Mr. Bostwick of Chrysler said. "There's still a formality about a sedan, an acceptability. I might feel good about driving a pickup to dinner in Texas, but not in Chicago."
Mr. Roberts of Ford, on the other hand, believes auto makers must think harder about the noncars youngsters will want to buy. With today's youth in mind, Chrysler created the Jeep Ecco prototype, "designed to be in harmony with this new environmentally aware generation."
Perhaps with the Ninja Turtles in mind, the Ecco's body was inspired by "a tortoise shell," a Chrysler spokesman said. The Ecco's all-aluminum experimental engine meets 1994 clean-air rules and is capable of taking the vehicle up to 50 miles on a gallon of gas.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Chrysler Corporation's Jeep Ecco, a prototype that the company is not planning to build, is an example of how far auto makers are willing to stray from traditional designs as they develop specialty vehicles. (Chrysler Corporation)
 
Graph: "Selling Trucks With 'Car Appeal"'
 Vehicles classified as trucks claim a growing share of the market for all vehicles sold in the United States. Graphs track the annual market share and total annual sales for cars and trucks (includes pickups, mini-vans, and sport-utility vehicles) since 1970. (Source: Ford Motor Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (63%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (72%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (63%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (72%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; SALES MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); MINIVANS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); SALES REBATES (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (61%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



594 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Down on a Day of Lowered Volume

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Stocks closed lower yesterday for the first time in seven sessions in the absence of fresh economic data.
A listless bond market helped to put pressure on stock prices and renewed some concern over higher interest rates and their potential impact on corporate profits. 
 Sizable losses in the European markets, which had advanced to record highs last week, also weakened American stocks.
Early weakness pushed the Dow Jones industrial average below the 3,600 level three times in early trading before the index drifted higher to finish at 3,605.98, down 9.50 points.
Volume was one of the lowest of the year, with 212.5 million shares traded, down from 276.8 million Friday.
"The market did not have much going for itself," said Dennis E. Jarrett, chief market analyst with Kidder, Peabody & Company. "I think the absence of any major news held everything in check."
The large consumer-product issues that helped move the market into record territory last week gave back some of that grouund yesterday.
"It was not a broadbased retreat, but rather one of select issues," Mr. Jarrett said.
Activity could pick up today, he noted. The market tends to become more active Tuesday through Thursday, with traders coming to work for a few days before taking long weekends off in what is probably the slowest part of the summer for the stock market.
The number of Big Board issues that declined in price totaled 1,032, compared with 935 showing gains. Most of the weakness was in blue-chip issues. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks fell 0.93 point, to 455.23, and the Nasdaq composite lost 0.10 point, to 730.86.
Drugs and H.M.O. stocks gave back some of their gains from last week; Pfizer fell 1 3/8, to 62 3/4, and Bristol Myers Squibb dropped 7/8, to 55 1/2.
I.B.M. gained 1 1/4, to 44 3/8, partly on investors sifting the market for quality stocks that were recently beaten down, traders said.
Xyplex Inc., a telecommunication equipment company, rose 1 3/8, to 25 1/4, on the news that it and Newbridge Networks, a similar company that makes voice and data communications equipment, had formed a strategic partnership. Newbridge gained 2 1/8, to 69 1/4.
Sands Regent, which operates the Sands Regent Hotel/Casino in Reno, rose 1 1/2, to 17 1/2. The company said that the Copa Casino in Gulfport, Miss., in which it is a 40 percent partner, was scheduled for license hearings on Aug. 30 and that the acting executive director of the Mississippi Gaming Commission had recommended approval.
Traders said an unconfirmed report in Britain's Sunday Times that Cadbury Schweppes P.L.C. was about to acquire A & W Brands, may have had an impact on A & W's trading yesterday, which closed up 1, to 19 1/4.Cadbury announced last week that it had agreed to buy a 20.2 percent stake in Dr Pepper/Seven-Up. Cadbury American depository receipts lost 7/8, to 28 7/8, while Dr Pepper/Seven-Up, gained 1/8, to 19 1/8.
Starsight Telecast, developer of an on-screen interactive television guide and VCR control service, climbed 2 1/2 yesterday, to 22 1/2, on a buy recommendation in new coverage by Kidder, Peabody. The company went public on July 30 at $15 a share.
DSG stock closed at 15 1/2, up 1 1/2, after Merrill Lynch raised the rating of the Hong Kong-based maker of disposable diapers to intermediate buy from above average.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (53%); PFE (NYSE) (53%); BMY (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (63%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (60%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); 

CITY: GULFPORT, MS, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (69%); XYPLEX INC (63%); CADBURY LTD (60%); PFIZER INC (53%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (66%); GAMING (63%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



595 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: AIRLINES FIGHTING PASSENGER TAXES USED BY AIRPORTS

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
A tax imposed at a growing number of airports across the country for projects like noise abatement, security, and new or improved runways and terminals is inspiring a budding revolt -- not among the passengers who pay the tax, but among the airlines that collect it.
The passenger facility charge, as it is formally named, has proved hard to resist for airport authorities. In the 19 months the tax has been in effect, 130 of the 428 primary airports in the United States -- those with at least 10,000 passengers a year -- have been authorized by the Federal Aviation Administration to impose more than $7.3 billion in taxes. Thirty-eight more applications are pending. 
 In the next fiscal year, the tax is expected to yield almost $800 million.
 
The Future, the System
 "These funds are critical to the future of our airports and the national air transportation system," George Doughty, chairman of the Airports Council International-North America, a trade group of airport executives, recently told the House subcommittee on investigations and oversight.
Airlines disagree. Executives of some carriers, whose routes involve stops at airports that impose the tax, fear that the increase in fares is putting them at a competitive disadvantage. Others have less specific objections, contending that many of the airport projects are unnecessary and that any increase in ticket costs will deter people from flying.
One executive complained that the airports were displaying a "Taj Mahal complex."
James E. Landry, president of the Air Transport Association of America, the carriers' trade association, which is based in Washington, criticized what he called the "field of dreams" argument: If an expansion project is built, "the airlines will flock to the airport."
Northwest Airlines, contending that the F.A.A. had acted arbitrarily in approving the tax at many airports, sued the agency last month in the United States Court of Appeals in Washington. The agency denied the charge, and arguments are scheduled on Oct. 8.
While no airport can charge more than $3 a flight, the airport tax can amount to as much as $12 on round-trip flights that involve a stop or change of planes en route. For example, passengers flying from New York to Los Angeles -- both of which charge the tax -- could save $6 by booking their round-trip flights on a flight that stops at Cincinnati or Dallas, which do not charge it, rather than at Minneapolis or Detroit, which do.
Therefore Northwest Airlines -- which has hubs at Minneapolis-St. Paul, Detroit and Memphis, where the charge is imposed -- pays it, rather than risking being at a competitive disadvantage on routes where its rivals have hubs that do not impose the tax.
This is an expensive choice. "Having to absorb that tax costs us $20 million to $25 million a year," said Elliot Seiden, vice president of government affairs for Northwest.
Consequently, Northwest -- which lost more than $1 billion last year, and just recently averted bankruptcy -- has asked the F.A.A. to impose the tax only on passengers departing from or arriving at their final destination, not on those connecting to other flights.
"It still doesn't take care of the revenue drain," Mark Abels, a Northwest vice president, said, "but at least in competing markets we would not be at a competitive disadvantage."
 
Flight-Booking Priorities
 While few passengers are aware of the tax, many computerized reservation systems that book travel for corporate customers are programmed to find the cheapest flights, and many travel departments are required to choose them. And individuals often ask travel agents, who sell about 80 percent of all domestic airline tickets, to find the cheapest flight.
"There have been few complaints," said Earlene Causey, president of the American Society of Travel Agents in Alexandria, Va., "but only because Congress did such a clever job of lumping that tax in with all the others that passengers don't even know about it."
Mr. Landry of the Air Transport Association said the tax was a way of "obtaining funding from a voiceless constituency," then transforming it into "a general public works scheme." The airlines say the rate of increase of airport costs has far exceeded rises in their other costs.
A. Jaynne Allison, vice president of corporate real estate at American Airlines, said American initially favored the passenger facility charge. "But our experience," she said, "has been that the uses for which the P.F.C.'s are to be put have gone well beyond what the legislation intended."
To be allowed to charge the tax, airports must apply to the F.A.A., say what they intend to use the money for, how much individual projects will cost, and the tax's duration. To date, the agency has approved more than 1,000 projects worth more than $7.3 billion, and rejected $2 million worth. Applications totaling $6.3 billion were withdrawn after consultations with the agency.
Approvals range from a one-year tax to raise $55,500 for improvements at the airport at Morgantown, W. Va., to $2.3 billion in taxes over 34 years for Denver's new airport, which is to open this fall. Flint, Mich., plans to raise $32.3 million over 37 years for a variety of projects.
 
Help for New York Transit
 In the New York area, Westchester County Airport was authorized last November to raise $27.9 million over 30 years for projects that include land acquisition, a parallel taxiway system and a safety road.
And in July 1992, Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark airports were authorized to collect a total of $282 million with a three-year tax. Of that, $21 million is to study the feasibility of collecting $2 billion or so to link the passenger terminals and parking lots at Newark and Kennedy airports, and to build mass-transit systems connecting Kennedy and La Guardia with the subways and the Long Island Rail Road in Queens, and Newark airport with mass transit in Newark.
Ms. Allison of American Airlines objects. "Taxing the air transportation system to fund those kinds of local, off-airport projects," she argued, "is a good example of the kind of projects that shouldn't be funded."
Mr. Abels of Northwest added, "That may well be the best mass-transport line ever proposed, but it's not what Congress had in mind when it approved such taxes."
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey disagreed. "I'm well aware of the airlines' antipathy," Stanley Brezenoff, the executive director, said, "and I appreciate their concerns. But they failed to take into account that these projects will improve the competitiveness of the region and make the airports more efficient."
The mass-transit systems, he added, would serve not only airline passengers but also the 50,000 employees of Kennedy and La Guardia airports.
 
Chicago and Dallas, Too
 Chicago recently obtained Federal approval to impose more than $580 million in airport taxes at O'Hare Airport, a hub of United Airlines, and Midway Airport. And the board of Dallas/Fort Worth Airport, the principal hub for American, recently approved the filing of an application with the F.A.A. That project would help finance a proposed runway.
But many other airports have hesitated to impose the tax for fear of losing connecting passengers to hubs that do not collect it, and of putting their major tenants at a competitive disadvantage. These include Atlanta, Cincinnati and Salt Lake City, which are hubs of Delta Air Lines, and Raleigh-Durham, N.C., and Nashville, which are American hubs.
Industry executives and analysts argue that the airport tax's timing was especially inopportune, as the carriers have lost almost $10 billion in the last few years. "It comes at a time when carriers can ill afford to absorb additional taxes," said Lee Howard, president of Airline Economics, a Washington consulting firm, "and it seems especially inappropriate when a Presidential commission is trying to improve carriers' financial health."
 
Unused Tax Revenue
 Mr. Doughty of the Airports Council countered, saying that the revenue source was needed to help bridge the gap between the needs of airport development, which exceed $10 billion a year, and inadequate Federal funds.
Airline and airport executives complain that much of the $15 billion in the Aviation Trust Fund, intended for airport improvement and collected from a separate tax on tickets, has not been allocated -- ostensibly to limit the budget deficit. In 1990, the year Congress passed the passenger facility charge, it also raised the tax designated for the Aviation Trust Fund to 10 percent from 8 percent.
Airport executives insist that the funds are needed for long-term improvements, and they say that this system for collecting the money works well. Mr. Doughty said:
"The P.F.C. program must be preserved and must remain procedurally unencumbered if airport development in the interest of the overall air transportation system, rather than of a particular airline, or group of airlines, is to be met."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Airport Tax at Work" shows a sampling of the 130 airports that impose taxes on passengers to enhance safety, security or capacity. (Source: Federal Aviation Administration) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (77%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (FAA) DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (66%); AIRPORTS COUNCIL INTERNATIONAL (56%); AIRPORTS COUNCIL INTERNATIONAL (56%); AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%); AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (FAA) AIRPORTS COUNCIL INTERNATIONAL (56%); AIRPORTS COUNCIL INTERNATIONAL (56%); AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%); AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (77%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS; FARES; TAXATION CIVIL AVIATION (94%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (93%); AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); AIR FARES (78%); NOISE POLLUTION (78%); APPROVALS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



596 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Makes Advances, But Weakens Against Yen

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar weakened against the Japanese yen yesterday after the Federal Reserve failed to actively support the dollar and a speech by Japan's Prime Minister did not break new ground on cutting the trade surplus.
But the dollar rose against other leading currencies, including the German mark. In New York, the dollar ended at 103.10 yen, down from 104.30 yen on Friday. But the dollar rose to 1.6835 marks up from 1.6755 marks. 
 Meanwhile, gold prices fell in New York after rising in Europe. Gold for October delivery, the most actively traded near-term futures contract, slipped 90 cents an ounce, settling at $373.70 on the Commodity Exchange in New York. The Republic National Bank of New York quoted spot gold at $372.50, down $1. Earlier in London, gold had risen more than $1 an ounce.
Traders said the currency markets had expected Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa, in his first policy speech to the Japanese Parliament, to offer specifics about cutting the huge trade surplus. When he did not, the yen strengthened, they said.
The surplus drives up the value of the yen, since importers elsewhere have to buy more yen to pay for the goods.
 
A Test of Resolve
 In addition, the Federal Reserve did not intervene actively in the markets to support the dollar, as it did last week to keep the dollar from approaching 100 yen. The Bank of Japan did buy some dollars to keep the yen from rising further, traders said.
"The market is going to test the G-7's resolve to support the dollar," said Lee Kassler, senior trader at National Westminster Bank USA, referring to the Group of Seven major industrialized nations.
"If they don't come in in the next few days, it could lead right back to 100" yen, he said.
Meanwhile, the dollar edged up against the German mark and other European currencies as investors sold German marks for yen and dollars, traders said. The mark dropped partly because of the possibility that the German central bank, the Bundesbank, will lower interest rates at its meeting on Thursday, traders said. Lower interest rates often hurt a currency, since investments in that currency earn less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (83%); HSB (PAR) (83%); HBC (NYSE) (83%); 0005 (HKSE) (83%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (83%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (70%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); FUTURES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); SPOT MARKET (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (54%); 

PERSON: MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



597 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Oil Prices Rise as Threat Of Nigerian Strike Grows

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Crude oil prices jumped yesterday in reaction to the increasing threat of an oil workers' strike in Nigeria, one of the United States' largest oil suppliers.
Nigeria's largest oil workers' union said it would strike on Friday if the country's ruler, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, did not relinquish power and install a civilian government as scheduled. 
 "Because Nigeria's economy depends so much on its oil sales to generate revenue, it's in the interest of all parties involved to resolve this issue, but it's mired in politics," a British petroleum trader said. "A long, drawn-out strike could pose problems for crude consumers on both sides of the Atlantic."
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for October delivery rose 24 cents a barrel to settle at $18.53.
 
U.S. Crude Prices Could Rise
 Nigeria produces about 1.9 million barrels a day of light sweet crude oil and an average of about 866,000 barrels of that has been sold to American refiners so far this year.
"The market could live with a strike that only lasted a few days, but if it's more than that, U.S. crude prices could rise quickly," a Chevron trader said.
Heating oil prices also rose, with the September contract gaining 0.59 cent a gallon, to 53.33 cents. American refiners prefer Nigerian crude because it yields a higher quantity of home-heating oil when refined.
Yet some traders said yesterday's oil rally bounce was misguided.
"People are focusing on this strike for a lack of other news," said Roger Volz, a trader with Pegasus Econometrics. "I don't think we're going to see much disruption because even if there is a strike. I'm sure there are more than enough OPEC members willing to step in and make up the production."
On other commodity markets, coffee prices soared more than 4 percent.
"I think we've seen pretty steady increases in demand," said Steve Platt, commodity analyst with Dean Witter in Chicago.
On the New York Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, coffee for December delivery gained 3.3 cents, to 78.25 cents a pound. A plan by coffee producing nations, led by Brazil and Colombia, to withhold 20 percent of their coffee exports beginning Oct. 1 has also pushed up prices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (90%); BP (LSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BP PLC (90%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NIGERIA NIGERIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES TRADING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES; STRIKES OIL & GAS PRICES (96%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (93%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (92%); FUTURES (91%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); COFFEE (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



598 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Consider What Star Wars Accomplished

BYLINE: By Robert C. McFarlane; Robert C. McFarlane was national security adviser to President Reagan from 1983 to 1986.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
At a meeting not long ago, I asked Ambassador Vladimir Lukin, chairman of the Supreme Soviet Foreign Relations Committee in the 1980's, what role U.S. policy in general and the Strategic Defense Initiative in particular played in the Soviet Union's collapse. His answer was straightforward: "You accelerated our catastrophe by about five years."
Remarkable. More than remarkable in that an investment of about $26 billion saved us and our allies at least five years of much higher defense budgets -- certainly more than $100 billion -- not to mention ending an era in which all humankind lived under a balance of terror. 
 But today the subject of "Star Wars" is raised not in the context of its strategic worth but rather for its potential for scandal -- an interesting comment on our political and social values.
Even allowing that the American contribution to the collapse of Marxism was relatively small, that role is no less striking. Anything that shortened an ideological change of such immense consequence is worth serious study.
In 1982, 25 years into the missile age, the U.S. had just about lost the struggle to maintain a strategic military balance based on offensive deterrence. It was clear that the Soviet Union would always be able to put more missiles in the field; it was not inhibited by an elected Congress or competing social demands on the treasury. The U.S. would have to compensate with superior quality, and for a time we did.
But by the end of 1982, when I was deputy national security adviser, two things seemed clear to me. First, we had squeezed just about all the comparative advantage we would find out of our technology, at least in offensive terms. Second, the American people and Congress were getting worried about a strategy that relied on building more and more nuclear weapons.
But what to do? We had to find a way either to get the Soviet Union to reduce the number of its warheads or to increase ours until we could fashion a new strategy. Unfortunately, we didn't have much leverage.
The value of defensive technologies -- the ability with confidence to destroy incoming missiles before they come close enough to do damage -- seemed attractive for many reasons. We had made a serious effort in the late 1960's to develop an effective anti-missile missile but were forced to conclude that the state of the art still favored the attacker.
By late 1982, however, new discoveries had been made. Adm. James Watkins, then chief of naval operations, advised Adm. John Poindexter and me that gains in the computational speed of computers and developments in high-energy physics (lasers, particle beams and other directed energy) had substantially lowered the technological risk of developing a truly effective antiballistic missile sytem.
As promising as the military implications might be, it seemed to me that such an investment would offer even greater political and economic leverage. Most important to me was the prospect that, as with the space program in the 1960's, our dedication of hundreds of scientists and engineers to this frontier technology would lead to scores of discoveries, all visible to the entire Marxist family and making it clear that our system worked better than theirs. To avoid such a threat to the ideological firmament, the Kremlin might be willing to pay a high price. Star Wars might be the leverage needed to get the Russians to decrease their number of land-based ICBM warheads.
Carrying out such a strategy faced huge problems. But I believed that if we played our cards right with Congress and the allies, we wouldn't have to build this system -- the Soviets would come our way on arms control. Slowly, everything came together, and by 1985 the program was a living "line item" in the budget.
As is now well known, our strategy worked. In Geneva, Mikhail Gorbachev and President Reagan pledged to reduce nuclear warheads by at least 50 percent for the first time. We had turned a corner.
As for the reports now that the Pentagon "rigged the tests" of Star Wars technology, I don't believe them. Surely no such "deception plan" was ever proposed to the President. And because any backfire would redound to his discredit, any such plan would have been cleared with him in advance by Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger. I don't believe that there was such a plan. After three failures -- all truthfully reported -- when a success was reported in the same manner, I saw no reason to doubt it. As we all know now, hitting a missile with a ground-based interceptor isn't as Buck Rogers a problem as it once was.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;USSR (FORMER SOVIET UNION) UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE WEAPONS (STAR WARS); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE FOREIGN POLICY (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (88%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); SPACE WEAPONS (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); NAVIES (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (60%); PHYSICS (60%); 

PERSON: MCFARLANE, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



599 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Europe Created Its Own Immigration Problem;
Safety Net's Pull

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your front-page articles on Aug. 9 and 10 on immigration and welfare benefits in Europe omit the crucial link: Europe's social security systems make it a perfect target for foreigners who want an easier life. 
 There was a time when people from the less developed countries couldn't cross borders or travel large distances safely, and therefore only those in real danger would make the journey. Such is no longer the case.
Most Europeans still welcome those genuinely seeking political asylum, but they are not prepared to pay taxes to support economic refugees. The more dependent Europeans feel their own jobs and benefits threatened, the more productive already feel overburdened by the taxation system that so many have grown up with as an apparent fact of life.
Meanwhile, the real tragedy is that those immigrants who have the get-up-and-go to seek work abroad are precisely the people required to develop the countries they leave behind.
Does any of this sound familiar to American readers? If not, there may be lessons to be learned from others' mistakes.
 
GILES PEEL
New York, Aug. 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; FOREIGN POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT GROUPS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) IMMIGRATION (94%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REFUGEES (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); TRENDS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); 

PERSON: PEEL, GILES

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993



600 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Funds of Towns Belong in Savings Banks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I would like to urge the New York State Legislature to adopt legislation that would enable local governments to deposit municipal funds in savings banks. 
 State government should provide municipal governments with the opportunity to earn as much revenue as possible (especially if the arrangement does not hurt the state budget). The present law prohibits towns, like Greenburgh, from investing our dollars in savings banks. This state law limits the ability of municipal governments to earn the greatest possible return on our municipal deposits and investments.
If savings banks were allowed to compete for municipal deposits, chances are that all banks would try to do more to attract the business of local governments. As a result of the increased competition, interest rates would increase on our deposits. Banks seeking business from local governments would be more likely to invest in the community and to participate in additional community activities.
Expanding municipal deposit options would have no impact on the state budget but could be helpful in reducing property taxes imposed on residents by local governments. The state keeps mandating that local governments spend money on different programs. This proposed law will help governments stretch the value of taxpayers' dollars.
 
PAUL FEINER
Town Supervisor
Greenburgh, N.Y., Aug. 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LOCAL GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BANKS AND BANKING REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (96%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: FEINER, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993

 
